ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Stelios Koutratzis, presented us with his document with the current questions that will be discussed today. Not only will the fourth question be discussed under No 527/109/10-10-2020 and the request for the submission of documents in the reporting cycle - questions asked by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance - on 'Inadmissible indifference to the damage caused by the restrictive measures on the producers of aromatic plants'. The series changes after consultation of the honourable Members. We begin with the second with number 160/16-11-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct creation of new MITs and the renovation and upgrading of an old "Venizelou" Hospital building". Before we begin, I would ask that the time be strictly respected. There are too many questions today, particularly those addressed to Mr Contozamanis, who will answer all of the Ministry of Health. Many overlaps, especially the MSUs, the coronary, etc. For the ITHs specifically, when they are general positioned, please be shorter when you think you have been covered by the answers given by the Minister. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes and I ask you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Minister, as you know, the wing that had started since 2011-2012 at the 'Venizelo' Hospital of Heraklion was recently completed and was gradually transferred to the old building. So they were released about two thousand square meters. The question I ask you is whether you intend, on the one hand, to incorporate the study and reconstruction of the old wing into a project or whether you are financing the hospital directly in order to take the necessary steps and, above all, because, according to international standards, according to the Greek state's aims, as they have emerged after the coronary, Crete needs almost double what it has today, due to the fact that more than half of the year has a double population. I would like to know if you intend a place, some squares of this area, which can quickly be renovated, turned it into an ICM, to deal with the acute problems we have, because of a coronary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu, and respect for the time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu was clear in his question. I will be brief and concise. Mr Kegeroglu, the coronary pandemic, I can certainly say - not only myself, but everyone - that it is also in a sense of opportunity to see and deal with situations from now on. This is also about the health coverage of the population and, of course, all the reforms that need to be made in the National Health System to ensure equal access for citizens to modern health services. No one doubts that Crete is a large region, a leading tourist destination and, of course, there is a need to upgrade health services at every level whether it is primary, secondary, or tertiary. We need human resources, economic resources and, of course, a concrete plan. For the Venizelos Hospital, therefore, a number of interventions are required in both infrastructure and services. Let me say that it is a privilege for the Heraklion Prefecture of the Region of Crete, the presence of two hospitals, one of which is a university. This privilege must be exploited so that we can create synergies between the two hospitals and upgrade the university and Venizelos, so that they can continue to provide their services intactly. I therefore inform you that the renovation and rebuilding of the Central Building and part of Building I and Building II in "Venizelio" is our priority. Specific actions have been launched in this respect, such as making a request through the NRP to finance the study and the implementation of the project, and of course we are moving towards the development of new IF beds. We are sure that not only in the territory, but also in the region, we will reach and go beyond the average set by the international organisations. Let me just remind you that the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation includes twenty-five new beds of intensive care, of which four are at the "Venizelio" Hospital and on our side, so that we can speed up all these procedures so that all of these beds are very soon available for use for the people of Crete. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the pandemic has raised a global problem, namely that man, his environment, his health, should be at the heart of politicians. So what we need to review in our country is policies away from man, bring him back to the centre. That is right, therefore, has already been said by you that health must be a priority again, and health as a public policy, which means regeneration of the NSH, the National Health System, so that it can meet the increased needs not only of the juncture, but also those which exist anyway because for many years the NSH has been sterilised by staff - unfortunately over a number of years, pensions have been more than the recruitment - and of course it needs to be upgraded. I therefore think that in this context we can also agree and be a priority in the programmes that the country can make use of, such as the Recovery Fund and others, in order to achieve this objective. For the "Venizelio" Hospital it is positive that four out of seventy-four, I think, new IF and MF beds that are in the donation will be in Venizelos. But because I have my own knowledge, which I do not doubt you have, it is very easy to create in today's IF beds and in the space next to those that have emptied the new beds, by easy procedure. I'd suggest instead of four beds that we have whole units or six or twelve. To create a whole unit of ICU or one or two, six beds or twelve, with a procedure that the Ministry may, in accordance with the authorization it has received from Parliament, without many formalities, apply and so these beds are also available to the National Health System, even within the pandemic, which we do not know how long it will last. Because many say: But, what do you need? After December, we won't have a problem. The problem will be until - at least according to the scientists - the vaccination process, not the vaccination itself, but its activation, which, from now on, means, according to the best predictions, at least eight months. I would therefore ask you, next to the four ITH beds that will be from the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to create two or eight more units in order to have two units in the quick process that the Ministry can, and I think you should express this will and implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I will agree with you, and I think all my fellow Members agree with the National Representation, that the National Health System has completed its pension years. There has been a huge wave in recent years of retirement for doctors and other staff and, of course, immediate reforms and changes are needed so that it can continue to provide services to all citizens and of course also provide new services and follow the technological and medical developments that are taking place around us. I think that in a very short period of time we have managed to overcome shortcomings and distortions in the past. We have the experience, we have the knowledge, so that we can move on even faster. I'm sure our work doesn't stop at the end of the pandemic. As you have said very well, the pandemic is not over and we should in no way be reassured when the vaccine comes. The health system at all times must be ready to face any crisis, as it faced and faces the coronary pandemic. We see that the Greek National Health System, the small - if you like - has done very well in relation to modern, richer, more robust health systems around the planet. As far as the additional Municipalities are concerned, let me say that our design is not only exhausted at the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. There is a plan and I keep what you said about growth and additional units in order, as I have said, to achieve the European average in terms of clinical ICUs at ground level, but also at regional level, to be able to achieve and serve, as much as possible, the needs of the region and even more in Crete, which I said in my prototype - you said - that it is not only a tourist destination, but it is a great region and serves thousands of inhabitants. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u9	Before entering the debate on the next question, I would like to inform the House of the updates of Wednesday 25 November 2020. A. PERSONS First Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House) 1. The 185/23-11-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "No producer excluded from the exceptional support for olive oil particularly affected by the pandemic." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under No 527/109/14-10-2020, was asked and applied for the submission of documents by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Inadmissible indifference for damage caused by restrictive measures to producers of aromatic plants'. I also have an announcement to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Aid measures for workers and vulnerable social groups, social security regulations and provisions to strengthen the unemployed". We continue with the first with no. 151/13-11-2020 top-level question by SYRIZA MP for the East of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Christos Spirtzi, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Act of Primary Health Care Structures in Eastern Attica". And in this timely question will the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, answer. Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the course of pandemic and the National Health System is undergoing a loss of control. Those tragically announced, with more than a hundred dead every day prove it, but as well as those unbelievably revealed every day, show the heavy government's responsibilities for indulgence and incomprehensible preparation. Mr Minister, I would remind you that some time ago, your colleagues were saying that if you were listening to our proposals, you would have wasted millions for no reason. I shall refer to what has been revealed today. We see the downside of setting up a campaign hospital in Thessaloniki and scenes and Volos himself. Are you going to nurse patients in tents? Will you intubate patients at the tents? We see the budget for the Ministry of Health to provide for a reduction in funds and it has just been revealed that in the Hippocrates a private doctor makes a choice as to which patients should be transferred to a private clinic. Let me testify to you. It was again this morning that Director II of the "Papanikolaou" Hospital in Thessaloniki and said that primary health structures had to be activated in order to be decongested. In Eastern Attica, as throughout the country, you have changed SYRIZA's policy, you have reduced these structures, to follow your program, to strengthen the private health system. I list your choices at health centers in Eastern Attica. You inhibited the operation of the regional hospitals of Pylon, Leglins, Perigialio and Anavyssos. Reinstate the operation of AEMY's offices in the Municipality of Acharnon and Keratea at the cost of citizens. You did not implement the public health recommendation in Pallene. You did not seek the 2 million euros that I had taken out of the Ministry of Infrastructure to upgrade and ask: Are you planning to reoperate the mentioned regional hospitals and set up a public structure in the Municipality of Pallini and Keratea and operate the AEMY with free access? With free access, not at the cost of citizens, that is, not what you did to the Samara government. Secondly, in order to avoid other causes of mortality, what is your design in the Eastern Attica Health Centers for their mission with specialties, for the operation of regular external medical services and for the integration of medical and paramedical staff into permanent jobs in the ESS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Spirtzi, let me say - it has of course also been said at the National Representation and everywhere at the level of the Heads of State or Government in Parliament - that under no circumstances is the health system in a process of losing control. We've done great so far. None of our fellow citizens left behind. We provide everything with a great struggle, because we are faced with difficult conditions in the exponential increase in coronary cases in the previous period and yet, because we have been prepared, we have managed and responded to the increased needs of this region. I will repeat once again: let us see what is happening in other countries around us where patients are transported from country to country or who is sorted out for intensified treatment. We haven't left any of our fellow citizens behind, and we're not going to. As far as health expenditure is concerned, let me say that regular health expenditure is increased in 2021 in relation to 2020 and, of course, we should add the additional costs that will probably arise due to koruna and the costs of the remuneration of temporary staff to be hired. Let me just remind you that in 2020, in relation to 2019, regular expenditure increased by at least EUR 788 million. The majority of these costs related to the management of the coronary pandemic. As regards the East Attica question itself, let me say this. Last Monday, 16 November, I answered a similar question by your colleague Mr Skouriakou, a member of the SYRIZA. In the context of this reply, I have put forward concrete figures on the staffing of primary health care structures in East Attica, which, of course, are also clearly in your mood. Allow me to say that this information is inappropriate. They come from the services of the First Health Region and constitute service documents. In any case, every decision is also published in the 'GENERAL' and is well known to everyone. I say this because unfortunately some information from your colleague has been questioned during the answer procedure. I would therefore like to repeat this: in the structures of primary health care in the eastern Attica, there is no question of shortages. They're fully operational and staffed. Ten health centers, nine of them in 24-hour service. Physicians of all specialties cover the needs of the population in primary health care services. I would like to mention to you at the Rafinas Health Center in September 2020 we had a total of five thousand six hundred forty-sixteen different specialties. We had about thirty - eight thousand visits the same month for doctors of various specialties in all health centers in Eastern Attica. How'd you guys have them staffed and how do we have them? In June 2019, there were two hundred and fifty - five doctors, and today there are two hundred seventy, or fifteen doctors more. In June 2019, they served thirty-thirty-seven people in nursing and other personnel. Today they serve four hundred ten, or seventy - three more persons. Especially for subsidiary staff, a hundred and four doctors, 38.5% for all medical staff and ninety-four people, 23% for all nursing and other staff, manage these ten health centres. We should go to regional medical offices, which work just as they did on your days. Wallonian district office. Subordinates to Kadriditio Health Center. It operated and operated every Tuesday from 7 to 3 with general doctor, pneumonologist and nurse from the health center. Legraine district office. It operates in the summer months every Wednesday and is operated by a doctor in general medicine and a nurse from the health center of Lavrio. Periyalu district hospital. It operates in the summer months every Tuesday and is operated by a doctor in general medicine and a nurse from the health center’s doctors. Regional Physicians of Legrane and Perigialou. In order for the Lavrio Health Centre to respond to the need to serve it, it has planned the recruitment of a general physician. These needs are currently covered by the Lavrio Health Centre, which is 24-hour daily. Anavyssou Regional Medical. Subordinates to the Centre for Cultivation and Thorical Health. It operated and operated every Wednesday with a general doctor from the health center and a nurse from the municipality of Saronicos. Keratea medical establishments are located at the Lavrio Health Center and operate on a daily basis in an area of the health centre for the restoration and recovery of the anonymous health establishment on the basis of a relevant programme contract. They are staffed and operated by health center with dentist every day, gynecologist every Monday and Thursday, orthopedic every Tuesday and Thursday, psychiatrist every Wednesday and Friday, pediatrician every Thursday and social worker every day. The Pallini hospitals are waiting for an appropriate building from the Municipality of Pallini, in order to develop, which will be placed in the spa health centre and which will be responsible for their staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u13	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. The needs of the area today are covered by the Spata Health Center, which is in twenty-four-four-hour newspapers and the Anthousasus and Gerakas doctors work respectively every Tuesday and Thursday and Monday, Wednesday and Friday. For Acharnon Health Center and the Anonymous Health Units Company within the next few days, a rental contest for an appropriate building for housing will be opened again, on the edge of the Municipality of Acharnon, of Acharnon Health Center. I would remind you that the services are provided in the above public structures, that is to say, regional hospitals, medical and health centres completely free of charge. For the rest, I shall reply to my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Spirtzi, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u16	Mr Secretary, first of all I should like to refer to the general part. What do you expect to say you've lost control? We are talking about today, not about the revelations of all the previous days. For the Hippocrates of Thessaloniki, I will testify to you: "Procedure that a private doctor has chosen patients for transfer to a private clinic". I repeat, we're talking about today. Mr. Kapravelos - you know the man - said everything. Our doctors are in despair in Thessaloniki and everywhere. What is the answer from the Ministry and the government? You have checked private clinics and you manage them with your ERC staff. From what hospitals? From the Papanikolaou and the Hippocrates of Thessaloniki. I will also present this document to you. So, what are you waiting for to tell us you lost control? I am tabling the above. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now we're going to East Attica. I could table the cooperation agreement with you - because your staff have not been properly informed - which states that citizens must be dealt with on an equal footing for free. They've got a ticket on the two of you I mentioned. Second, they don't work properly. What can we do now? They're not working. Let's go together, if you want, the days you said we'd look at them. There aren't any. Thirdly, so as not to create any impressions. SYRIZA had contracted with two hundred and ninety - seven doctors in Eastern Attica. You hired fifteen and keep these people in a hostage. Instead of perpetuating them, you gave them an extension of four months and then a second extension for another few months, while the pandemic is in a worse phase than it was before. I could give it to you, even now, to have a picture, if your servants were to make it to you. In 2019, then, a hundred and ninety-seven assistant doctors were recruited, in 2020, fifteen doctors were recruited, the ten go to Rafina, as you said, the two in New Makri, the three in Spata and one in Lavrio. The other health centres - which is why they gave you them at the level of the whole region and not in detail - leave from pensions and terminations of contracts are much more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would really ask you to see these questions. I would ask you to do everything in your power to perpetuate these people in the ERC and decentralise the services from hospitals in primary structures. Also, I would ask you to tell your servants not to get the primary doctors involved, because that's what you did before. From what you've told us, it seems you're getting the primary health and health centers involved. For example, in Pallini and elsewhere you're talking about - if you want me to tell you where and where - don't get them involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Spirtzi. The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, Mr Spirtzi, to conclude the first part of my answer to your question. There are two more questions. Above all, as far as AEMY is concerned, let me say that the KERATA, which in fact has not been working over the past five years, has recently been reactivated by offering health services. In addition to the services in external medical establishments, the Centre for Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation is now operating with a physiotherapy and four physical therapists serving our fellow citizens with a referral from the EEA and with zero participation. Also, with regard to the energy upgrading and modernisation of the health centres of the 1st Health Region of Attica, let me mention that the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, by decision, gave the approval of a final study on the tendering of the project: "Energy upgrading and modernisation of the Health Management Centres of the 1st Health Region of Attica". The tender procedure and the other procedures for the implementation of the project are initiated by the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and we will shortly proceed to the implementation of the assistance. Let me make one final comment on the loss of control, as some examples suggest, regarding Thessaloniki. There is a war right now. Conditions are not ideal and working conditions are the same. We see the great effort made by all workers in the National Health System in order to stand up to the great pressure - particularly in the area of Thessaloniki - facing the health system in recent days. It has responded with adequate and completeness at the moment thanks to the titanic efforts of all staff. We are here to support this staff, to support these structures. I repeat, however, it is not normal conditions, as it would have been in another period. Allow me to say, why we all remember and do not mention it, under normal conditions in which the country was operating, during the period of seasonal influenza, where our people were being intersected in the corridors waiting for a bed in an intensive treatment unit. We have such pressure that within ten days we have had to nurse ninety-five of our fellow citizens into intensive treatment. Last month we opened a hundred and fifty-five beds of intensive treatment units in Thessaloniki with seventy-three of them in the last ten days. So you realise that we did it and we do it. Yes, there's definitely a plan and preparation. You talked about the Military Hospital. We are preparing for every chance in order not to find any of our fellow citizens outside. I think it has been the best preparation, and I hope that by assessing the epidemiological and epidemiological data Lockdown will succeed, that the situation is stabilised, that we see a fall of cases and that we can also overcome this wave of pandemic. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u19	We are now entering the fourth under No 155/13-11-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mera25, Angelikos Adamopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious problems in the ICUs of the country - complaints". And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, recent reports and health data show some complaints about unacceptable situations in the middle of the second pandemic wave, which is a severe wave, a wave, which demonstrates that the situation has been put out of control by the government. According to documents from the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Saint Paul" an explicit command from the administration to empty all intensive treatment units from non-COVID incidents, so that hospitals can only serve patients with a coronary, while even the "Saint Paul" is not a reference hospital. Physicians consider that this rapid transition, i.e. the transfer to hospitals only of CVID incidents, takes place without any appropriate precautionary measures having been taken, appropriate dispersal prevention infrastructures. Significantly, the president of hospital doctors at AHEPA Hospital reports that after the last general on-site intensive care beds are at marginal levels. There is a general saturation that occurs in all hospitals in Thessaloniki. I will not go into figures so I won't abuse time. However, what we can see is that there is a shift from the Ministry and the Government to the national health system, which is decommissioned because it has not taken care of the Ministry in time for these eight months of sanitary measures, which we called on you to take as a MERA25. There were also no recruitments of permanent staff or the simulations of contractors. What you are after all trying to do is take all the non-COVID incidents to be transferred to private clinics and, indeed, to a price which is scandalous. You have issued an act of legislative content in March 2020, which provides for invoicing for each bed for every day of EUR 1,600 from EUR 800 at the beginning. It shall be an amount which exceeds the reasonable amount and limits of proportionality. I continue by saying that doctors and nurses report on a daily basis the situation in hospitals and that results in disciplinary proceedings. San Savvas Hospital denounces disciplinary persecution and intimidation in order to stop the reactions of health. So I ask you why, first of all, the necessary measures were not taken in time to shield, strengthen the ESS and we are in this tragic situation. Secondly, what you intend to do from now on, even after a holiday, is to make up for what you are complaining about and, of course, to redefine your relationship with the private health sector, because it is noted that you are promoting privatisation in the health sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, let me begin by repeating what I said in my previous answers to your current questions, but also to previous questions in the context of parliamentary control. We're at war! The situation is very difficult. We were prepared for the worst scenario and I do not think that the health system is under collapse or has lost control, because even reaching the border points, particularly in the area of Thessaloniki, the health system has endured. I repeat: none of our fellow citizens left in their luck, none of our fellow citizens left behind, none of our fellow citizens who need to enter the ICU is left out. Of course, in any case, we are increasing our powers in the best possible way. I said before that, seventy-three new intensive beds were developed in the area of Thessaloniki in the last few days. And, of course, I do not think that what has happened in Greece in preparation has been done in other countries and, above all, - to specialize it - in the area of intensive treatment. We have at least three hundred and ten new intensive beds in the hospitals from July to today. The National Health System is standing. His people have kept it up. Of course, I repeat that the conditions are adverse and we are fighting a battle in order to meet the increased needs of the region. Let me say that there is no privatisation or we are not trying to send incidents or to favour the private sector. There is a partnership with the private sector for years, not only now during the pandemic period, but also before the pandemic. We had to work with the private sector again in order to move incidents, particularly in intensive non-COVID treatment units, but also in simple beds, so as to manage the coronary incidents of public hospitals. At the moment, all hospitals in the country, like the "Saint Paul", provide coronary services. Actually, it's all reference hospitals. In all hospitals in the country there are developed wings and beds to deal with the coronary. To return to the private sector a little, that is why we went to the private sector in northern Greece to use the private sector structures for koruna incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u23	Good, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I don't know if I have time, because the timer has stopped. If I do not, I will respond to what Mrs Adamopoulou said in her question. Can I go on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u25	Finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u26	I'll be brief. Thank you. So let me once again say that the case of Thessaloniki is special. It is a very burdensome area and so far we have succeeded. It's not easy. So it makes sense in this effort to make use of all hospitals in Thessaloniki, as is "Saint Paul". I said that all hospitals now provide coronary services. In fact, all hospitals in the country are reference hospitals. In Thessaloniki, in particular, the nine ESY hospitals have four thousand three hundred 30 single beds and two two intensive beds. Of these, we have available about 1/3 of single beds and a hundred and ninety intensive beds for exclusive coronary hospitalization, respecting all necessary personal protective measures, respecting all international protocols. At the "Saint Paul" Hospital, to which you referred, in a total of two hundred developed single-pay beds we have available about half of them for exclusive hospitalization of patients with coronary and eight beds at the Intensive Treatment Unit. We have strengthened the hospital with additional ancillary staff and, of course, we have provided it with all the necessary means of personal protection for both the staff and the patients. You know, that wasn't by magic or by one moment by the other. They were, of course, planned and prepared properly. As regards which hospitals will have beds for the hospital treatment of Coronovirus patients, how many will be available, which will be carried out and hospitalised, how the regional hospitals around Thessaloniki, how we work with the private sector, I will tell you: In an emergency situation involving the entire population, which is public health, the state sector meets with the private sector and consists both of these sectors of the health system, the National Health System. The state sector and the private sector cooperate and cooperate in order to provide health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u27	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u28	Our powers and resources are finite. And that is about whoever is called to manage a pandemic. In conclusion, I have to say to you: as far as the Hippocrates is concerned, there is a contract with a private diagnostic centre to cover the extra needs of molecular checks and as far as your reference to the San Savvas Hospital is concerned, there is no persecution and no intimidation. Everyone can express his opinion and his opinion completely free of charge. We are all judged by the outcome, and this will also happen at the end of the pandemic. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u29	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, there has been a great deal of time for the Minister. I think I too am entitled to go beyond time, because it is also a big deal. There wasn't even a time count while the Minister was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Adamopoulou, as you can see, I'm not interrupting anyone. I just draw attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u32	I'm just gonna need more time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u33	Let me explain what happened. I was under the impression that the Secretary of State was finishing his speech and I closed the timer. But you'll talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u34	I didn't see the time to count.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u35	I won't interrupt you. What's your problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u36	I'm just gonna need some more time. That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u37	You'll talk. Nobody interrupted you. Besides, you haven't started yet. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u38	Minister, you have said to the previous question and now to your prototype - you have admitted, in essence, that the conditions are terrible, that the conditions correspond to conditions of war, as you said, that there is a war.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u39	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u40	Good. You said there was a war. This alone shows how, in fact, doctors and nurses have not been supported for so long, how impervious and decommissioned the National Health System. I shall refer specifically to this. You tried to clarify the situation and disprove you of statements made by specific persons, such as the President of the Association of Hospital Doctors of Thessaloniki, who complained that the whole of the previous period was erecting the risk code to the government, in order to make direct recruitments with permanent staff, to simulate contractors, to set up private-sector beds. "And despite the time required by the government..." - as the President says - "they did nothing to support the ESS. All they do is support private therapists right now. Even health centres are decommissioned, just to leave the space exclusively to individuals.’ So there was no plan - as the President denounces - to deal with cases. While in support of its statements, I will also present a document from the ICU of the Hospital of Thessaloniki "Saint Paul", which mentions the fact that on 27 October there was a specific responsibility for infections that made autopsy in the spaces and expresses their strong concerns about how the existing provision of the space could be isolated and, in any case, treated with cases in a way that does not involve the spreading of the virus and the personnel and patients. It features that without the necessary modifications the function will be suicidal, not just war, but suicide! The necessary preparation time is therefore needed. Of course, they are making concrete requests for personal protective measures, for the space to be properly shaped. This document, therefore, will be tabled because it demonstrates how improper and inappropriate the hospitals are in order for intensive care units to deal with incidents there. The same and worse I can say that it denounces intensifier who describes tragic situations, dangerous hospital conditions, for more than three hundred patients in the "Hippokrate" Hospital of Thessaloniki. The cases from the beginning of November, which were seventy, have suddenly become two hundred forty. They are forced to seek the help of even unrelated personnel such as ORLs, such as ophthalmologists, irrelevant specialists, just to support them in organ examination, haemorrhage. That's all the gaps. You have been invited to take concrete measures so long as it is a hotel charge to go there elderly people who have been discharged. They demanded the involvement of an army only to strengthen the EAW. They weren't heard. And people are in such a state of despair, which the intensive agent denounces will be addressed to the prosecutor. You tell us that the situation is under control and that it has nothing to be jealous of in any of European data. I would even like you to tell us what these European data are and what Greece does not have to be jealous of. Within all of this, the Personal Clinics Association denounces that the government is coming to support the private sector and the clinics that treat patients as customers and as average profitable. That's why they don't want to take COVID incidents, just so they don't lose their clientele. They want all the hard work to leave it in public hospitals, in an ESS not just decommissioned, but also in an ESS, which according to the state budget you published, not just will not be strengthened, but generous cuts of the system are reported for 2021. It is planned that these cuts may reach up to EUR 600 billion. Transfers to the EEA are reduced by 50%. And by EOPYY, you will compensate private clinics for the sum of EUR 1,600, that is, at the expense of the Greek taxpayer. I'm also putting in the documents that prove the disciplinary proceedings that I mentioned before. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I conclude by saying that there has been a specific donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation in April 2020 to build a hundred and seventy-four beds in fifteen hospitals and since then, from April until today, nothing has happened, just a few studies have just been completed. In all these months, beds have not even been built and you tell us that you have taken all the measures in time. We disagree!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u41	Good. Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude, Mr President. In combination with the budget you have published to know that citizens are angry. They've been to me and you know what they're telling me? That this government must resign now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, let me once again say that the claim that no measures were taken for the second epidemic wave really is far from reality. You're abstaining from reality. The results which are visible to each Greek citizen show preparation, plan and preparedness. And of course we're going on. I'll start at the end. You referred to the donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Yeah, there's a big donation. Of course, since this donation was announced until the projects were started, some procedures, approvals of studies, permits and so on have been carried out. It is already in the process of completing a large part of this donation. By the end of the year we will have the Intensive Treatment Unit on the Red Cross, at the "Koryalenio-Benacio", in the CSD. In the next few days it will be another donation by Mr Marinakis, Mrs Fragou and the ION industry to the State General of Nice. Let me remind you of the great donation of the Greek Parliament with fifty intensive beds. From scratch within a timeframe, within two months, this project was completed and is at the disposal of the National Health System to deal with this pandemic. Let me tell you - I said before - that the expansion and modernisation of intensive care units does not only stop at these donations, it does not stop in the works of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. I told you that since July at least three hundred new beds have been opened in intensive care units in the country's hospitals. There is planning to extend intensive treatment facilities beyond the donation programme, which is currently under way. I'll repeat it for the recruitments. Our initial planning at the beginning of the pandemic was the two thousand subsidized staff hired. We're over seven thousand recruits. Six hundred sixteen doctors have permanent posts in 2020. They've taken up their duties. By the end of 2020, a thousand four hundred and twenty permanent doctors will be in the National Health System. In addition to the proclamation of the two hundred positions in intensive treatment units, we have already gone further on the list with a relevant legislative initiative so that we can also get candidates who were fully competent to their applications. You're talking about the order. Let me repeat, once again, that the requisition has been foreseen since May. We didn't order because we didn't have to. And the order pays the state. There was no reason to pay anything that we didn't use. We do it now and if necessary, we will proceed, not only in Thessaloniki, and in other regions in Greece. In no case, then, is something done without planning. You referred to health centres. Let me remind you that a hundred and eighty health centres in the country today and forty-three regional medical establishments are control points for the coronary, screening points and, of course, diagnostic points for the coronary. The whole health system is currently dealing with efficiently and adequately all the needs that exist in order to deal with this pandemic. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the first under number 158/13-11-2020 the second time question of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou to the Minister of Health on 'Problems to track the case in Kavala. Absence of mass test planning in the population’. Mr Contozamanis will answer that question as well. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u46	Minister, first of all, I would like to express my warmest sympathy to the relatives and relatives of the victims of the pandemic, as well as my congratulations to the health workers for their superhuman efforts. I imagine that the Minister does not agree with Mr Adonis Georgiadis' statements today, which celebrates over the hundreds of dead, nor with Mr Akarios Lazarides's statements, who said that health workers are irresponsible and directed because they are asking for self-evident. I take the view that the Minister disagrees. As far as Kavala is concerned, unfortunately in Kavala we can talk about a criminal signature of the situation. Throughout northern Greece, Kavala is the only urban centre in which no mass tests have been carried out in the general population, although for example, according to EGE data, on November 5, the rate of positiveity in Kavala was 35.77%, on November 8, 42% and on November 16, it reached the unthinkable rate of 46.7% positiveity in the tests carried out, when the average across Greece was 18.6%. Also, in Kavala, we had two outbreaks of cases: one in Thassos, where some tests were carried out and ten days after the tests, it seems that the patients were never officially informed, nor were their contacts traced. The second is in Nikiasiani, the Municipality of Pangaios, the Regional Unit of Kavala, where since the beginning of November there have been extensive information on many cases. It had become a marriage - to remind you, if you don't know - of Nikasian Kavala. Also, we had an incident at a clinic in Nikosiani, hosted by the advocates, in which there were too many cases. Of the hundred or fifty guests, they had thirty-five cases and no one came from EGE to check the situation, even though the owner of the clinic was a candidate for the New Democracy Parliamentary in Drama, and you should have more detailed information about the situation from the inside. Even today, EGE has not been to the clinic to carry out extensive checks, as is the case at other clinics around Greece, which have much less positive cases. So everyone wondered why, while on November 4th, Mr.Metios announced that EGE workshops will be located in all the cities of the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, so far no workshops have come to perform extensive tests in the city of Kavala. Just the day before yesterday and in view of the timely question - I would like to believe that that was not the reason - EGE came to Nikiasiani and to Eleftheroupoli and did an appointment test. You understand that when you ask each other to book an appointment to run a test, this is not an extensive check or a sample test, as took place in other cities, where in open spaces, squares were carried out and whoever wanted to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u47	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u48	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's important what I'm saying. Of the six hundred tests that the EGE has not available, half of them didn't even take place. However, the positive index was 10%. So everyone is wondering, Minister, why the EGE has not yet come to do sample checks in the city of Kavala, when the rate of positiveness is so high, if it intends to come in the next period and if you will consider the seriousness of the complaint about the problematic process of traceability in our city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Eleftheriadou, first you know that we are in Lockdown and of course there is no call in public places so that the EGE can go for a test. It is done in a concrete and concrete way to ensure both the avoidance of congestedness and public health. The situation in Thessaloniki and more generally in northern Greece, including the Regional Unit of Kavala, is particularly burdensome. We all know that. A total of sixty missions were carried out by the National Agency for Public Health in November, i.e. visits by mobile health units, managed by nurses, in sixty different parts of the Regional Unit for laboratory testing. Specifically in the last week, from 16 to 22 November, there have been checks and five hundred ninety three samples have been taken, and for the period from 4 to 10 November, mentioned in the introduction of your question, appropriate checks have been carried out. As I said, more than three thousand checks and more than a hundred missions were carried out. In the case of traceability, from 4 November to 10 November there were two hundred sixty cases and three hundred close six contacts within 24 hours from the time the results of diagnostic checks were known. The question is: could we carry out more checks? Yes or no as an answer is simple and easy. The reality, however, is not simple, especially in the situation that we are experiencing in Northern Greece, which would be extremely difficult and complex. Of course, every effort is made and everything that is human. EGEY, Political Protection, Health Region and Hospitals have already overcome themselves and offer their services in the best possible way. Let me once again say that our powers are not inexhaustible, as are the resources we have. You spoke of weakening the health system, while the health structures in Kavala regrouping to better and more efficiently deal with the pandemic. The Kavala Hospital developed 12 more intensive beds for the hospital treatment of coronary cases, increasing the total beds to eighteen. Access for patients to scheduled dates that can be transferred at a later time without a charge on their health was necessary, both for the protection of patients and for the protection of health workers. I would like to remind you that all surgical procedures which are referred to as 'urgent' or 'extreme' are carried out normally, without delays or delays. The same applies to the provision of services to vulnerable population groups, such as oncological patients and, in particular, to groups of patients with chronic conditions. It is clear and clear that our directives are in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u51	Minister, please finish it. You have your dentistry, too. You have an obligation on television too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance. It is important, once again, that we all understand that we are operating on the basis of a plan. However, we cannot, under any circumstances, perform ten million tests a day nor do we have so many available single-medicine beds and intensive treatment units. To date, anyone who needed an intensive bed or hospitalization had this service. We'll make it by the end of the day. Because what we can do and do is increase our powers. More checks are being carried out on more points. We have more single - hospital beds and more intensive beds. Support has been made with subsidiary and permanent staff in the National Health System. Of course, in any case, the effort made in Northern Greece is clearly greater than the effort being made in the rest of the territory. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have not received any reply. I asked you, because since the beginning of November, when sampling checks were carried out in all the cities of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, you did not come to Kavala, EGE did not come to Kavala, although the positiveity index arrived, as I said before, at the unthinkable rate of 46.57%. Also, I never referred to my question about the health system. Nevertheless, you choose to make a revert to what - as if - you have done. Because, obviously, you have no picture, I inform you that today the General Hospital of Kavala operates essentially as a CIVID clinic on three of the five floors. One hundred and forty-five single beds COVID out of a hundred forty-five have left this morning ten blanks and may have been up to now that they have been paid. Of the twelve ICUs are all twelve full. There's not a single ATF vacant at Kavala Hospital. Regional medical offices have been closed. From health centers, all doctors have gone to Kavala Hospital and therefore do not work. There's no room for a single bed yet. This morning, I spoke to a staff from Kavala Hospital. "If these tens too were empty in the morning, we will go to court." That's what they mentioned to me. Doctors now choose who's going to enter the Hospital and who's gonna get a recommendation for home hospitality. In fact, we had the tragic last week to find a disabled person who suffered from a coronary next to his forty-eight-hour mother from a coronary forty-eight hours because you had given them the mandate to stay at home for home hospital. I guess you know that. Two sanitaries are currently in a very serious situation at Kavala Hospital, while thirty sanitary workers are inclined to do their duty. You have decided to support the hospitals in your electorate regions of Ministers, such as the Serres, where you hired forty nurses and fifteen injured and in Kavala you did not hire anyone. The doctors, who come to the hospital, are from a 2009 SYRIZA proclamation. The problems are very big. But my timely question is clear: will there be mass tests in Kavala? The hospital's boiling. Just two minutes ago, while I was here, I came up with a new letter from the doctors, which says the doctors are on the line of overcrowding, because incidents are now coming from Drama. Yesterday, twenty people from Drama came to Kavala Hospital. So there's gonna be massive tests in Kavala? How does the state expect to be intercepted if there is no control? The quarantine on its own and the confinement to the house is not enough. So I'm waiting for a clear answer: why didn't it happen when they were in other cities? And I am not talking about now, I am talking about the beginning of November that could have avoided the problem that was created. What are you going to do now and what, of course, are you going to do about the complaints they are talking about that there has been no trace of these cases? Of course, if you can, I want an answer for the clinic in Nikosiani, where I repeat that the owner was your candidate Member in 2019 and I think you have better information from the inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Eleftheriadou, can you repeat to me what your question is about the private clinic is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u57	In my timely question, I would like to say that there are extensive cases in the Pangea region and, indeed, in a Pangeaian clinic. There are, therefore, extensive cases in a Pangaios clinic since the beginning of November. I also spoke with the owner, who assured me that everything is fine, and with the hospital commander on several occasions about this clinic, who also assured me that everything is fine and that the inside clinic is dealing with cases. In similar cases throughout Greece, which were much less cases, EGE intervened. Why didn't this happen here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u58	Okay, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, you said so. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I referred to my prototype in the EGE's missions in the area, in particular at the intervals you are talking about, since, of course, the tracking which has been carried out. I'll say it one more time. The tracking system, as well as the control system, is what helps us, we have a clear picture of the situation today with regard to the population and we can identify close contacts and cases and protect our fellow citizens. I told you how many traces were carried out during this period and let me say that - I mentioned before - the conducting of mass tests throughout the population is not the tool that will give us the results and the picture that we want. Tests are carried out targeted, in particular, and of course, these tests are increased day after day and we have reached the number of thirty thousand diagnostic checks a day. There is a specific strategy for tests to be carried out on a regular basis in specific population groups, such as healthcare, such as closed structures, and population groups that need to be examined. There is therefore no question of a test not being carried out and where appropriate a test will be carried out. Now, as far as the hearings are concerned, I imagine that the services responsible will be informed, and especially for the private clinic, I will look into it - I commit - and I can inform you. However, in any case, any case detected, traced and investigated by the Civil Protection Agency and the National Public Health Agency. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u60	We move to the second under No. 157/13-11-2020 of the first cycle of the MP Argolidis of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Finding a Christmas gift to the health staff of the Public Hospitals of the country". And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is undeniable that the health staff of the country will every day give the battle against the coronary in public hospitals, without question and without sacrifice, from the beginning of the pandemic to the present day. In the last few years, with the rapid increase in cases in our country and the overloading of hospitals and ICU beds with coronary patients, the working conditions of health workers have deteriorated even further. The health staff of the public hospitals in the country, in addition to the care of the CIVID patients, as well as the other patients with acute and chronic illnesses that they face every day, are also faced with problems such as hypotension, increased overtime work and shortages in logistic equipment. The Change Movement to date has repeatedly tabled amendments to the House to include in the regime of heavy and unhealthy people, as well as the self-taxation of the newspapers of the OSH medical staff, which the government has refused to accept. We recall that, respectively in April last year, the Government had legislated to grant special special special allowances to health workers serving in public hospitals in the country. It has also been followed by exceptional financial assistance from the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to medical and nursing staff, as well as the auxiliary cleaning staff serving in the ESH hospitals, university and military and providing its services to ICUs or to ICUs where patients are treated by coronary hospitals, or to CIVID-19 hospitals under specific conditions. Because they now reach the words, the applause of the government for the daily struggling efforts made by the health workers of the country's public hospitals in the battle against the coronary, and because they need acts and recognition of the huge work that they offer to all these public health care staff, but also as a minimum indication of gratitude for the huge work they do, I would like to ask you if you would pay a Christmas gift to the health staff of the country's public hospitals - I repeat - as a minimum indication of gratitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u62	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I would like to remind you that last April, in the form of an Easter gift to all the staff working in the National Health System, I would say quietly, without lightning and ironing, and overcoming this fact, without any remarks and wrongfulness to the government, which has shown our intentions and, much more so, the government has shown its clear political will to reward all those who have been ahead of us in the first line of dealing with the pandemic. This financial assistance, you understand - you know very well - has not been implemented with great ease. The economic potential we have as a state is not inexhaustible. On the contrary, I would call them restrained. That is why it is making us very carefully, without we promise, in the implementation of all those measures which leave us an economic footprint. It is not in our minds to promise 'roots with rocks'. It is not in our minds to promise something, which we cannot do. We are responsibly approaching the question of the reinforcement of staff in the National Health System, without much talk and with a plan. We want to strengthen all these people who are at the forefront of the pandemic, and who have exaggerated themselves all this time in order to provide uninterrupted health services to all our fellow citizens. However, communications are not going to hear from us on this issue, which - I will reply clearly - exists and remains open as a possibility, as was the case in the case of the allowance last April. We are looking into it, but before we have a complete picture, we are not going to go into details. With regard to the integration of health workers into the regime of heavy and unhealthy people - you have raised this many times - you know that the issue exists and that is why we are waiting for the results of a specific committee set up and working out proposals and specific solutions. I am sure that we will soon have the answers and the suggestion of this committee. I believe that these suggestions will be able to satisfy the legitimate demands of health workers. I want to be clear: under no circumstances does the government stand against these demands, nor has it refused to discuss them. I repeat that we cannot, under any circumstances, make promises, which we will not implement. We are working on concrete proposals, even discussing and giving solutions, realistic solutions that in no way imply refusal, solutions which truly recognise the titanic struggle that all workers pay in the national health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u64	Good. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u65	Minister, I have listened very carefully. From what I understand, you're not 100% sure right now if you're going to have to give this allowance, because you're talking about an allowance, while we're talking about a Christmas present. There's a difference. The allowance paid in April was half the wage. This is where I said, if anything is going to be given, an entire salary, a Christmas present. As far as I understand it, you've been in a process to discuss it, but you'll be back in the wrong process. You will be back in the process you have done with the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, when you have chosen all hospitals to take it. For me, you need to look at this matter very carefully. If you are going to give the allowance - what you are probably talking about, and I believe that, as the people say, 'from all good and Panayotona' - I think you may give half of what we have discussed so far. However, do not enter into the logic of blocking hospitals, not taking the blame of people serving in the hospital. They must all take it, whatever it is, no matter how much it is. I think you will do well at this time if you give it to me. It will be a brave act, because I understand that there may be difficulties in finance, but these people really want it right now. And they want it for a certain reason, to stimulate their morality, because they are currently fighting with an invisible enemy and must be given as gratitude to the Greek people to these people. I have nothing more to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, of course, I do not think anyone in this Chamber is questioning the fact that people, all workers, all members of the National Health System are making superhuman efforts and we must recognise them. I told you that we are not going to promise something that we cannot implement. We're studying it, and when we're able to get a specific announcement, we're going to do it. You referred to the amount of money available to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and was given a specific portion of health. Let me remind you - because I have already answered and I think it was from you - that it was the Foundation's decision to grant this sum and that it had no involvement of the state. In any case - I stress it, because it is important - that all these people should be recognised and we must support them in every way, not only economically, but in every way, by ensuring the working conditions that will allow them to continue to offer health services to all Greek citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u68	We are now entering the third under No 168/16-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government chooses at all costs not to strengthen public hospitals". The State Secretary for Health, Mr Kontozamanis, will answer that question. At this point, I would like once again to remind you of keeping time, both the honourable Members and the Minister in question. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I don't know how one can describe the situation at the moment. And from the testimony of Mrs Kydonas, but also from the testimony of citizens who have come to me, in practice doctors and nurses do not have time to give food and water to patients. In practice, they do not have time to meet the basic needs of patients, which are rarely covered. In this context and in this situation, you chose, based on the document published by ‘efsyn’, to send doctors and nurses to the two fine clinics, to those you paid for, despite the fact that you say you are not taking measures because you have no money. I do not understand how much more lack of connection with reality you may have as political leadership as a government. The other day, I had a last name complaint about the patients that were found on Volos this time. Apart from that, a patient with COVID -19 had to stay on ice in the hall, in the open space for too long. Now tents have entered the Hospital of Volos, while you place tents at the “424 General Military Hospital”. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The doctors are asking you for something very simple. You are asked to check the hospitals, like being all hospitals mixed, because very simply there are patients with CIVID-19 who have no symptoms, they are asymptomatic. Besides, you can't tell who's really patient and who's not. Also, your doctors ask you to have strict protocols, ask you to check hotels, so that they can really go there patients who continue to need care, but who no longer need to be in the hospital. Also, doctors ask you to find solutions to a situation that is not just explosive, but in a situation that has gone beyond us. I will say more in my dentistry, Mr President. However, I would like to make a reference on the basis of the information that Mr Panos Papanikolaou made from OENGE.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u70	Please complete, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u71	It seems that the beds in Athens are over and in order to keep the beds free, people are being sent to Corinth and other hospitals as well. So I would like you to tell us exactly what is going on and, anyway, I want you to tell us what methods are being used to keep the beds in Athens free at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u72	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, let me begin by saying that I consider the title of your question inappropriate: 'The government chooses at all costs not to strengthen public hospitals'. I think that the whole time is clear now, we have shown that we have strengthened the public health system, which currently has a different picture, and that is what has kept the country up to now, and we are, of course, increasing our powers in the National Health System every day in order to meet the needs of the pandemic. You talked about a requisition. We've done a diary. We've said we could do it earlier, but it didn't take the first time. If need be, we'll do it in other areas. We have thankfully legislated - because there is a plan - in order to take all those measures which will enable us to successfully deal with the coronary. Because you referred to our fellow citizens who need health and hospitality services, I would remind you once again that the National Health System is working to tackle not only the cases of coronary, but all the incidents that need hospitality from all our fellow citizens and is not a coronary. He's running, on-calling, dealing with emergencies. There is a restriction on regular surgery - this is done all over the world - in order to protect both health workers and our fellow citizens who come to public hospitals. Finally, let me reply to what you have actually referred to, namely converting hotels to hospitals in order to treat patients there. Hotels cannot be converted into hospitals and have patients' hospitals there. Hotels are only for quarantine reasons and to deal with other incidents, of course under medical supervision. The patients and workers in the country's health structures must protect them. That's why we're taking all these measures. Regarding the pressure on hospitals, particularly at this time of all those incidents that can be dealt with at later times, I would like to say that in no case is the displacement of a surgeon at risk to the patient's own life. That's the way it is. That's the reality. This is happening all over the world. But you have no right to fake reality and mislead citizens. The NSA has its own role. This role is strengthened. The ESS has stood up and is facing all the problems. The private sector has its own role. She can work with the public sector, and that's what's happening. When, of course, there is a need to check, the ESS requires, as it did a few days ago in the area of Thessaloniki. We are working to improve the National Health System and structures, modernising infrastructure and upgrading health services. This also emerges in practice - because you referred to intensive care units - through the implementation of the development plan of two hundred and fifty new beds of ITH and MAF in hospitals of the ESS from the grand programme of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, from the operation of new intensive treatment beds by other donations, as I mentioned before, with the emblematic donation of this House of Greeks and, of course, by strengthening the existing infrastructure in every way. I said again - I will say again - that at least three hundred new intensive beds were developed in hospitals in the country from July to today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u74	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u75	Mr Arsenis, on the second part of your question - to conclude, Mr President - you refer to the testimony of health from Thessaloniki. I also said in previous answers that I think we all recognise that the situation is difficult. Of course, we must make a clear effort and be greater than in other parts of the country. That is why the entire hospitals of the National Health System in Thessaloniki have entered the battle. This is why we have developed more simple beds and intensive beds in Thessaloniki and the rest of the territory. That is why we have not seen scenes in Italy, which we have not seen scenes where our fellow citizens are hospitalized in the hallways. We have not seen scenes that happen in rich and developed states, such as the crossing of patients in another country. Yes, the National Health System is uniform throughout the country and provides services to the edge. If necessary, patients will be sent to other hospitals in order to have the care they need. Our forces are not unlimited, but in any case, we have shown that whenever necessary we are increasing these powers and providing health services with a sufficient degree of competence to all our fellow citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u76	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, if you need to increase your powers, increase your powers. You really raise them! Check out the hospitals, take the necessary measures, hire them, create an ICU. It's okay, and now they don't have an impact, because, you know, this crisis lasts, let's save people both in a month and two months. It's okay. Make the hires. Don't be afraid of it. Use your powers. From Mr. Kalomenidis, Professor of Pulmonology at the University of Athens, from the hospital "Evangelism", I learn that "Saving" goes for exclusive COVID -19 function, leaving many patients with other respiratory diseases uncovered. In Thessaloniki, metropolitan major hospitals become exclusively or almost exclusively COVID disease -19, leaving uncovered patients with other illnesses. All this because? Why were the structures and staff of the ESS exhausted and the private clinics decided to stay clean, decided that this is a good opportunity for advertising "the ESS has a coronary, come and operate on us that are clean"? Just questions. Like the ones by Ms. Kydonas, a pathologist in Thessaloniki, who talks about how space is being created in hospitals: "The imports relate to more than moderate cases. While in September and October we introduced several people for monitoring, in November we stopped this and put more than modest incidents, because if we don't. The beds would reach the beach. We're now making more aggressive testimonies. I mean, we don't expect the full dismissal of the disease, but as soon as we feel safe she can go home with oxygen, we're pulling him out. We do this in order to have a few lofty free beds, because every four days the Hippocrates must open its gates for on-call. At Volos we have for eighty patients in the COVID ward two doctors and two nurses, Minister. That's why doctors are asking that they rent or check town hospitals to take out the credit cards that are still positive, because, if we wait for them to be negative, there are no beds. Those who come out recycle the dispersion in the city. Why not be able to sit down another ten days instead of being alone in his home and thus stick to his family, which can also be made up of people belonging to vulnerable groups? That's why they're asking for hotel facilities to save the relatives of these people. Stay there for a week, provide them with food, secretarial support, cleanliness and give them the medicines they need, which is possible from the beginning of the city. They also ask for the Army's Health Service to be involved, something that has not happened. Thessaloniki asks for the "Lomamonon", the "424" and the "Panagia" to be reopened in their full function. Accordingly, it calls for West Athens to open up its full operation. These are the self-evident things you need to do, both in Athens and Thessaloniki and wherever else you need. Why don't you do it? Why are you stalling the measures? What for? Our impression is that the reason is obvious and one, because even now you have not backed up your plans to privatise the public sector. That's what you're interested in, and whatever order you're moving forward, it overturns your basic plan. Show us we're wrong. Please, Minister, show us we're wrong. Put your powers ahead, as you told us. Take measures. Check private hospitals, start staff recruitment immediately, hospital equipment immediately, ITH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, you ignore reality, you falsify reality and mislead citizens. You don't understand anything, have you not seen what has happened all these months in the National Health System? You're talking about recruitment. We have submitted them on several occasions in the Minutes of Parliament and there are decisions in the 'DIAGY'. More than seven thousand as subsidiary staff are currently serving in the National Health System. Recruitment of permanent staff has been made and served in the National Health System. Upgrade of equipment has been done and is at the disposal of all our fellow citizens. Infrastructural projects have been done, new intensive treatment units have been made. Go for a walk and see them. You tell us about the "Smomonton" in Thessaloniki. Go see it if it can be hospitalized in our fellow citizens. I'll repeat. You told us before in hospitals to treat patients with a coronary. If this thing can be done! You referred to the ‘Agia Varvara’ Hospital. The "Agia Varvara" Hospital is faced with coronary incidents, it is interconnected with the Atticon Hospital and the hospital's clinics and provides health services for the coronary in our fellow citizens. You referred to the Salvation Hospital, which will only work on coronary cases. The same was the case in the first period of the pandemic. You didn't say anything then. It is logical that there should be a structure that can be faced with coronary cases. The Salvation Hospital is such a sanitary structure due to its pulmonary specialisation. There have been changes in the National Health System, I will repeat, which have contributed to the standing of the National Health System, to having dealt with with all the incidents so far, without leaving any fellow citizen behind, without leaving any of our fellow citizens without health services and the care he needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u80	We move on to the discussion of the fourth question under number 164/16-11-2020 of the second time question by SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Let us be able to prescribe and compensate the diagnostic test by the EEAS for SARS COVID -19'. Mr. Contozamanis will answer that. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have been listening for an hour and a half to reply to colleagues from either the SYRIZA or the Hellenic Opposition, and I am sorry, because you once again repeat the same answers to different questions. Recently, in reply to Mr Arsenis, you have caused him a little disgraceful, saying that he misinforms the world and the citizens and asked him a question if he has gone to the places we are talking about. I want with great respect to ask you this: Have you gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u82	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u83	Have you been to Hippocrates recently, Papanikolaou and Papageorgiou? Because I went there a few hours ago. We can't have that different picture of reality. We can't both tell the truth. One of them lies. I shall therefore very calmly list what I have heard with my ears and with the presence of myself, what is happening today at the hospitals in the public sector of Thessaloniki. If we want to recapture, Minister, I would tell you that the day's line, the day's statement, the truth of the day, the soul of the day is what the Director of the "Panikolaou" Hospital's S.H. said today: "We have lost lives that could have been saved." This, Minister, is inconsistent with the reality described by you. I don't want to question the numbers, because the human lives that are lost are not numbers. They're our friends. So this is the soul of the day. The disgust of the day, Mr Minister, is your colleague, the most pitiful thing that has arisen from the CTP, the Prime Minister and Vice-President of the New Democracy, who has celebrated with vileness and vulgarity for two hundred and eleven deaths in forty eight hours. Would you ever say that, Mr. Contozamani? I put my hand on fire, no. Do you welcome Georgiad's statement that he celebrates in hysteria, excellence, vulgarity and cannibalism for two hundred dead fellowmen in forty eight hours? On the one hand, the soul of people of health comes out and their disapproval and, on the other, the vulnerability - I do not want to call it a political, rather an accident of history - Mr Georgiadis. I have heard you, Minister, say something and I shall come to the topical question, not to waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u84	Yeah, but it's been a minute. You'll get a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u85	I will conclude by saying that the key role of SYRIZA plays my part and I ask you to do so with responsibility. For us, Minister, when we talk about these issues, we discuss them with pain, respect and honor, not by servitude, arrogance and lies. So I ask you: why is it that all of you in this country, prescribing the molecular tests by the EEAS, do not do so in a political way so that relatives who give the battle, relatives of public officials, do not need to go to private doctors and give 200 and 250 euros, as the NSATH urged the health workers and public servants in Thessaloniki? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Giannoulis, you didn't go to your question. You're making a political position of every scientist. I would like to answer first of all the question you are asking about diagnostic testing. Let me once again say that this control is done free of charge by the state. Thousands of thousands of tests have been carried out, since the specific requirements of both the public structures of the National Health System and the EAFRD and the Civil Protection are met. I think the issue of prescribing diagnostic testing for the coronary is exhausted. But let me once again say that at the time you provide this service for free, there is no reason to prescribe this service. The checks which, as I have said, were carried out by the Ministry of Health specialists' committee are 100% covered by the State and without harm to our fellow citizens. The number of checks available outweighs the needs of those who meet the criteria to make a coronary check. The members of the Committee of Experts, in addition to the criteria for carrying out the checks, have also established protocols for the management of suspected cases, where quarantine is necessary and not control. Of course, we cannot forbid any of our fellow citizens who, in addition to criteria, believes that they have to take control of them and therefore appeal to the private sector. Let me say one more thing. The possible compensation from the EEA would lead to provocative demand, since the pressure on the prescription doctors would be huge and we all know that very well, because doctors would be asked to reduce the anxiety of suspicious cases by prescribing them. Today, in addition to molecular diagnostic tests, we have the rapid antigen detection tests carried out in accordance with the directives and conditions laid down by both the Committee of Experts and very recently by the European Union. This has enabled us to increase the country's productivity vertically in controls. Through carefully developed operational plans, periodic checks are carried out both on health, on workers in first-line services, on workers and on hospitals for prisoners and on pre-repeal detention centres for foreigners, on workers and beneficiaries in Immigrant reception and hospitality centres, on workers and beneficiaries in elderly people's care units, on Centres for Creative Employment of Disabled Children, on Creative Employment for Disabled Children and on Day Care, etc., trying to halt the additional transmission of the virus both to increased risk groups and to groups living in closed structures, as well as to the general population. I can assure you, then, that there is full coverage of diagnostics. There is a concrete plan, so that the needs of the population are fully met for diagnostic testing in accordance with expert guidance, in accordance with the international organisations' instructions, such as the World Health Organisation and the European Union. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u88	Here you go, Mr. Giannoulis. You have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u89	Minister, I do not question the charges in which a molecular test is prescribed and given. But for the class, I must inform you of some issues or add to your agony. I'm not counting you deceit. In total, we charge for an inability to take timely measures. It's been seven months. The relatives of the police, to whom there is a serious problem, Minister, cannot enjoy the privilege of free molecular examination. I will talk to you about the relatives of health, Minister, in addition to the 'Papanikolaou' case, in the AHEPA and in the Hippocratic Republic. I don't want to blame you. The relatives of doctors and nurses who need to be checked - I am not talking about distant relatives - cannot benefit from free molecular control every 10 days. Their people are in the battle of what you described every day. As far as I understand it, Minister, we describe a war, a battle which the people in the front line, the nurses and the doctors, and those who had to fight the political battle have been thrown into contradiction every day. Today Mr Petsas describes the possibility of deterioration in the condition of pipes and deaths. Yesterday, the political accident in history, Adonis Georgiadis, prepared us for how the market would open. Today Mr. Petsas says the situation will get worse. Decide exactly what's going on in this country. I have heard you many times say - I would like a little attention, Minister - 'we are ready, if necessary, to proceed to requisitions'. What if I have to? That kind of cheques? Like in Thessaloniki today, where you extracted seven - eight sanitary - up to administrative - in the private clinic that was supposed to be attacked? You surprise us unpleasantly every day. Are you proposing the financial cost? Are we making an economy, Minister, in the requisitions? Because if we make an economy in the pensions we should make an economy in all the 25 million budgets that the channels are not expected to pay next year. For the second consecutive year. If we make savings, Minister, in the requisitions, and we try with the already deficited staff of the public health system to make the claims for the eyes of the world and not the requisitions of large hospitals in Thessaloniki that have a major problem, such as the Dia-Balkan, then perhaps someone else misinforms and misleads the world. If we want to make an economy, let us stop the periodic financing of journalists and site to rob us of the infallible and the Messiah. I want to close with one request. This morning you presented a headline for health incentives. Colleagues from Mera25 and colleagues from SYRIZA have been mentioned. So, Mrs Kydonas - who has tabled this coup, and not a trade union manifesto - and other public health officials, such as the director of the Papanicolaos ID, are not trade unionly motivated, Minister. They are the people who describe the reality that I carried you and we see daily with our eyes, with our self-representative presence in Thessaloniki. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I do not want to question your intention, but I fear that you have too long to go and see how the situation is. Please fix it. These people have no trade union motives or are politicizing. They're struggling to save even one life. For these people and a life is worth as much as no one has a state budget. Certainly, they are the people who work, respect, honor, experience each other's pain, care about the other and don't fool around in the channels like your Government's Minister for Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Giannoulis, I'll start at the end. Trade unions exist in democratic regimes, and fortunately, because the aim of trade unionism is to promote the interests of people who serve trade unionism in order to meet the needs of the population and those of those groups who claim, through the union, to meet some of their positions. Fortunately, there is a trade union in democracy because, under some totalitarian regimes, which your party already supports, I think there is no trade unionism, there is no pluralism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u92	What are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u93	Venezuela. Of course, we need to separate the spread of false news from what actually happens. Another to say that we are fighting for better working conditions, we are striving to offer better health services, and another to say that we are tying incidents or making aggressive discharges. The hospitals in the country provide secure health services to all our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u94	Deal. Are they lying? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u95	Please, Mr. Colleague, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u96	Everyone expresses their opinion and is respected. Everybody's fighting a battle. But to make a request, to formulate a situation and to disperse false news. There are neither aggressive discharges nor anything else. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will return to what I said in my protology as regards diagnostic testing. The check is done where it needs to be done, without additional costs for our fellow citizens. You referred to relatives of health, relatives of people working on the front line. Fortunately, there are specific procedures for these people, there are specific protocols which are respected and followed, and since these people have to carry out tests, this test can be done free of charge. One last thing. As far as the requirements are concerned, it is a weapon - I said it before - in the hands of the government in order to deal with the pandemic. We didn't do it at first because we didn't have to. But when it takes, we'll do it and do it now. You have referred to the movement of personnel in these private structures. The construction of these structures in Thessaloniki - and wherever necessary - is carried out and these structures fall within the administrative, operational and scientific supervision of the relevant sanitary region. It is reasonable, therefore, to have these movements in order to ensure continuity in health care, in order to ensure the operational plan under way. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the first with number 13/1/5/10-2020 question and request that reports by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Konstantinos Markos, be submitted to the Minister of Health, on 'Clin MIT number and other issues of the Ministry of Health'. The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kontozamanis, the ambiguity of your policy has reached you and at the last point to say that SYRIZA supports regimes that have no union. Look at the picture of Mr. Prime Minister in the United Arab Emirates and tell me the ignorant trade unionism that exists in the United Arab Emirates. Don't get involved where you don't have the elementary communication. I now come to that. The pandemic's time runs and runs, so the fact that we file a question two months ago, after 15 days, the data may also change in time to still change. That's understandable. I shall therefore speak on the current reality. I am not going to paradox at all what you have not done, that will be decided historically. You know the communal terrain in time of history can't pass. You said earlier to my colleague from the Change Movement that all the sanitary workers are fighting the coronary, all the workers in the National Health System. Does anyone question that, did you ask rhetoric? A man disputes it, Mr. Contozamanis. Today, just in the hospitals in the country, there is paper you ask them to record the coronary workers. What does that mean? It means he's preparing himself with some criteria. Who are people to record and on what criteria in the hospitals in the country who deal with the coronary? Go tell the commander of the Kalavryta Hospital and the manager who are coronary patients that, because they are not doctors, they are not involved. What kind of tragedies are these? How are you gonna get them out of here? Just get in touch, give money to all the sanitary staff at Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u99	Is that what the paper says?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u100	Finally, please, I won't allow you. I'm on my way. Because in the opposition speech we either have to press something to succeed or reveal, we do not achieve something, you said it clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Colleague, you have to go to your questions, please, no places now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u102	Give me some time, these are questions. Syntax. So I reveal to you the hundreds of citizens who are forced to do surgery to travel to visit relatives who do not have public control and go and pay. I'm just revealing. I'm coming to something else. Firstly - do not question the figures, do not think about it - the ECDC, our European Centre currently ranks deaths in the seventeenth place in thirty countries of Europe. This is our situation, we must be honest. And last. Chaos. How many staff decide and suggest to the government? We have the Chiodra Commission with thirty-one people. We have a Committee of Emulsifiers in Chardalia with five people, a National Committee for Public Health with eleven people. Who are they suggesting? What kind of chaotic situation is this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u103	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Marcus, I challenge you and I ask you to submit to the Minutes of the House the document which the Ministry of Health asks how many people are serving in the COVID units and to see if it says something that you said. Are we going to give these people money? That's what you say. You set up a story, testify it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u105	Yeah, I've got it here, and I'm filing it right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u106	You are probably not following developments and that is what I conclude with your question. A great deal has been said today, in previous questions, but also in earlier questions under parliamentary control. I'm going straight to your question, Mr. Marcus. With regard to the renewal of ancillary staff contracts which expire directly, September 2020, you know - it is your question before the relevant legislative resolution - that they have been renewed by October 2021. You are well aware of the issue of both the test and subsidiary staff. So the increase in daily tests or, otherwise, the proliferation of daily tests, as illustrated, we know that from eight hundred and fifty tests per day in the first pandemic period, we have exceeded 30 000 per day in the country and continue. We continue with the rapid tests that are carried out and we are one of the first countries to carry out these rapid tests in the country. I am speaking on the Minutes of this House - because you are referring to whether there are any contributions from scientists suggesting that rapid antigen tests can be used for mass tests and traces - the recommendation from the European Commission for the use of rapid diagnostic tests on 18 November and with reference to the Directives of the European Agency for Public Health, ECDC. I am tabling the relevant document for the Minutes of this House. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Committee recommends to its Member States the use of rapid diagnostic tests, under conditions, for the control of individual cases and mass tests of targeted population groups, in particular in conditions of elevation of confirmed epidemiological profiles and at the same time the need for rapid results. In conclusion, with regard to the title of your question, I would like to inform you that intensive care establishment beds, which operate and are available for hospitals in patients, currently amount to a thousand two hundred and thirty-one, of which six hundred sixty-nine are reserved for coronary patients. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, I tried to protect you from political ridicule, but it seems that you yourself are not protecting yourself. I told you, the political time of the pandemic runs and the text on subsidiary staff was submitted two months ago. You don't want to be protected. You do not even want to get rid of your perpetual obsession, the revolt. You're judging about that. I will now come to the evidence you told your beloved OECD and file the graphs on the Minutes of the House, although I am sure you know them. Our country is second from the end to additional health expenditure for the year 2020. You came and said - and Mr Petsas two days ago - 'No, but because since July, we have put another 800 million.' Yes, sir. First, what government are you to inform the OECD at this late stage when all countries have informed it a month? What government are you? Secondly, where did these 800 million go? Tell us: Why don't we see them in the health system? I continue: "Yes, but what we use, we use them well and we do many tests, as proposed by the WHO," as you love him. In the next graph, I show you - from the OECD again - that we're eight from the end. Yes, but someone will ask, 'What's the point?' The answer is in the third graph that I have, "With the restrictive measures, we prevent and improve the possibilities of the health system." If we only take restrictive measures, we just do a hole in the water. One will say: the government may not have done what it should, but at least it protected the economy. And yet we're champions from the end. The next graph, the fourth one I am presenting to you: 'We are currently going for a two-digit recession in 2020 and a weak growth in 2021', against any government forecast, which has been irreversibly exposed. And he's made dozens of predictions. Besides, it's known that if he didn't have SYRIZA's pillow, we'd be much worse. But isn't it your fault? Do you have all the good intentions? The fifth OECD graph reveals to you that it is not so, because from 2008 to 2013 health expenditures were reduced by 7.3% a year - champions of Europe - and they began to grow, to increase from 2015 onwards. So you don't have good intentions either. The 2021 budget does not seem to be aware of these points you say and does not attempt to address the tragic gaps. The budget is - and do not question these figures, save the last trace of political credibility you have - 16% less health expenditure. We have not seen in the budget the costs of the four thousand new recruits of doctors and nurses announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition by the Prime Minister. I conclude by saying: And the person who has contact with the health system would understand that the measure you announced with the €2,000 a month to private doctors would fail for too many reasons that are not here. Today Mr. Petsas found that only eight doctors in the country responded to the call of the government. It's not the doctors' fault. It's the government's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Marcus, your dentistry has nothing to do with the question. But I'll answer that. I will repeat that today more than seven thousand of our fellow citizens are serving as auxiliary staff in the country's health structures. These figures are unambiguous. We place them at regular intervals in the Minutes of Parliament and the decisions are in the 'DIAGY'. These people are in the health system right now and they are serving. Go see, then, whether or not they are serving, because they are there and provide health services to our fellow citizens. I also said that we extended these contracts until October 2021 and that there are specific commitments from the government in terms of nursing staff and in terms of converting the positions of subsidiary doctors to permanent medical staff in order to fill gaps in the national health system. You referred to the OECD and the figures that your party showed as regards health expenditure. Again there you have translated the data wrongly, because you spoke of per capita health expenditure, when OECD tables talk about additional funding to the National Health System during the pandemic period. Yes, the graph, which was used, was mentioned in April 2020, in the first month of the pandemic. Since then, clearly, there have been more money in the National Health System for use exclusively for coronary expenditure. I would like once again - I think I told my previous question - to say that the health budget this year will be increased. Already 2020 was 788 million increased compared with 2019, because this is mainly about COVID expenditure. In hospitals from 3,153 billion will go to 3,488 billion. The ordinary budget of 4,043 billion will go to 4,126 billion, without taking into account the expenditure on temporary staff, the expenditure on new recruitments and, of course, the expenditure on management of the coronary pandemic. Let me remind you, finally, that during your governance period Greece continued to hold the top positions among the OECD countries on private health costs, more burdening the households' pockets that were forced to pay out of their pockets with increased contributions, with increased private expenses, in order to have health services. In this situation we have received, this situation is being handled and we are all aware that in recent years and because of the coronary pandemic, public health expenditure will increase and will increase as much as necessary, in order to tackle the pandemic, but also in our country finally converging on the European average public health expenditure. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, Minister. Let's go to the last question to Minister Kontozamani. It is the third under number 382/12-10-2020 of the questions raised by Mr Evangelos Evangelos Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Entermination of the newly established CIVID clinic of the General Hospital of Chalkida with the necessary medical staff". Mr Apostle has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u112	Minister, the beginning of the General Hospital of Chalkida coincided with the emergence of the second wave of the pandemic, without being accompanied by meeting its needs to medical and nursing staff, let alone when more needs were created by adding the CIVID clinic. Do you know what the hospital administration did to deal with the situation? He moved young and unskilled nurses to mand exclusively the COVID section, but for medical staff, because there was no possibility, he ordered that he be covered by the informed specialist pneumonologist and his absence from one of the qualified informal pathologists. This led the newspaper doctor himself to cover the same 24-hour regular morning hospitals, TLP, clinically treated non-COVID patients, together with the needs of the new CIVID clinical, moving alternately and continuously in these sections. This act endangered not only the health of these doctors, but also created a great risk of breaking the coronary into the other patients of the hospital, their relatives and staff. At the same time, of course, the problem of the continued presence of a permanent specialist in this clinic remained unresolved. I had tabled the question forty days ago. You did not answer me then how you would solve this problem. On the contrary, when Mr Kikilias came in a few days later, he announced in a communal fashion - you, and especially the Prime Minister, are accustomed to this - the recruitment of four nurses and six doctors. But, Minister, these doctors already existed in the hospital through distraction procedures, which took place in the previous period to serve non-COVID operating needs. Of course, we must make one thing clear. We're not against the treatment of the COVID incidents in the hospital. We are looking for a better and safer solution that can be done, as you know, as the Greek people know, on one condition: the recruitment of the necessary medical and nursing staff you have not done either in Chalkida or throughout Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Apostolos, let me begin by saying that the Halkidiki Hospital is an ornament for the area and contributes to the upgrading of the services. In fact, we have given a huge struggle to complete the relocation of the old hospital to the new modern facilities and, of course, to be able to adequately develop all its functions. In order to do so, we have made progress both in strengthening the staff, subsidiary and permanent, as well as in the budget of the hospital. As far as the recruitment of ancillary personnel is concerned, one hundred and twelve the number, nine doctors of various specialties, fifty-six nurses, seven paramedical, thirty, technical staff three. They have also been completed - this is very important - within a very short period of time permanent recruitment of doctors for the intensive care unit, where these doctors have already undertaken tasks. You referred to the functioning of CIVID. I will agree with you on the point that the staff at such a clinic must be of exclusive employment at that clinic. I want to assure you that this is the case at the Chalkida Hospital and nothing else could happen. The safety of personnel and patients is our priority and is an unnegotiable process, which is respected without any derogation. In this context, the decision of the administration of the General Hospital of Chalkida that the operational managers of the departments involved in the management of CIVID-19 cases, namely in the case of Pathology and Pulmonology, should draw up the programmes in such a way that the doctor covering the incidents with a coronary is not involved with other activities. In addition, the organisation of space that could safely not only be managed by suspected and confirmed cases of the disease, but also by treating mild cases of this disease has been fully implemented. I would mention to you that according to the information we have from the administration of the 5th Health Region and the Chalkida Hospital, on 6 October 2020, on the occasion of an emergency coronary situation, the separate spaces set up for this purpose were put into operation. Studies and technical work had already been carried out in these areas. They have prepared and fully equipped, while both staff training and publications of relevant operational and incident management protocols have taken place. The group managing the cases of coronary was established by zero with the participation of the permanent physicians of the pathology, i.e. three pneumonologists and six pathologists. As you can see, the proper preparation has been made. The Chalkida Hospital is in a transitional period due to the relocation. There are resources, there are the declarations of positions. We will proceed to other notices so that the Chalkida Hospital can adequately manage and deal with suspected and confirmed coronary cases without requiring a stay in a hospital in Attica. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u116	Minister, the Chalkida Hospital to set it up, we made a great effort. Unfortunately, you cannot meet the needs for the operation that Chalkida really needs at this time, but the wider region does need. He said Mr. Kikilis, when he had come to Chalkida, that our hospital is now being given a super-local character, since they are already hospitalized in the CIVID clinic and incidents outside the prefecture. Of course they should be hospitalized. That is why, however, I repeat that the necessary recruitment must be made to both nursing and medical staff, so that we can have safety and effectiveness. We're all worried. In fact, your curiosity is obvious. I'll report to you what happened at the CIVID clinic -19 the next day of Mr. Kikilia's visit. The pneumonologist who watched the patients was found positive. The worst part is that she regularly went to medical treatments and considered patients at the other clinics. As necessary, many of her colleagues were subjected to a test. Listen to me: On the first day five rapid tests came out positive and the next day, when the same persons were subjected to molecular tests, they were negative. You understand what happened and what agitation there was throughout the hospital, because the same can happen tomorrow with the others and with the on-call specialists. Minister, the hospital workers are making great efforts and hitting the alarm. He did not meet them - badly - the Minister when he visited the hospital. They say: 'We are not far from being turned into a health bomb'. They're hitting the alarm bell. So serve the new clinic with a separate, specific and exclusively employed medical and nursing staff. On the contrary, you prefer to pierce holes with health - moving from department to department, from health center to health center, from one city hospital to another city. In the Region of Central Greece right now there are still appropriate solutions for the safe and necessary care of patients COVID -19, provided they are served with the necessary staff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is, for example, the third floor of the old Chalkida Hospital, which was housed by the Cardiological Clinic - I shall end, Madam President - with twenty beds that can be converted into intensive hospitalization and Pathological on the same floor with fifty beds which can be changed in simple beds. Why didn't you do that at the same time when the transfer took place? Didn't you predict it? Do it even today. "We lost lives," my colleague told you a little while ago when he referred to the words of the pneumonologist of Thessaloniki. 'why we didn't have the means.' It is a critical situation and you have even seen it in today's sitting, where parliamentary control was exclusively at your Ministry. The days are critical, and you must now, today, make the relevant decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Apostle, you told us that you were making huge efforts for the Chalkida Hospital. Well done, but we did, and we are trying to strengthen it, so that it responds to its role - because the role of the hospital is, as Minister Kikilias said, super-optimistic - and to contribute to the fight against pandemic. We have said that we will do everything possible to strengthen both the Chalkida Hospital and all the other structures of the National Health System, so that this coronary battle at this time is victorious. I'm sure there will be new coronary cases between health care and there are. Fortunately, it's very little. We must preserve this, keep up with all the protocols, do all the tests where it takes and regularly so that the health staff do not get infected and continue to provide their services to the population. Chalkida Hospital needs support. He'll have it from today's head of the Department of Health. It is delightful that the positions in the notice for the intensive care unit have been covered and these doctors are already serving. We will strengthen the hospital with more staff in order to respond to his role. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too, Minister. Then we will discuss the fifth with number 387/12-10-20 a question from the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on "For health, safety and upgrading of labour rights for workers (bicycle drivers) in the distribution and transfer of goods and goods". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, however, before I refer to the question of asking a question, which has been raised at the moment on the basis of a post on the Internet and which I think cannot be left out of business. I am referring to what was written a few hours ago that there is a prosecutor's inquiry into Alexis Tsipras, Giannis Varoufakis and Dimitris Koutsoubas to investigate the offences of violating coronary measures and incitement to disobedience the other day on 17 November. Minister, I do not want you to cover yourself behind the answer of independent justice. I want you, as a representative of the government, here in the Greek Parliament, to comment, regardless of the independence of justice, because you realise that if we let such acts take place, what this could mean for our democracy. From there on, in relation to the question which we are discussing today, I had tabled a written question to you since 12 October. You did not answer it, so today we come in the form of the timely question. These days, some people who are tested, in addition to doctors and supermarket workers, are the drivers of two-cyclical transport, the distribution of goods and goods. They have a negative record, regardless of the current conditions, on traffic, on deaths, on losses. It was our government that, in a systematic and comprehensive way for the first time, created a framework for protecting workers and upgrading their working conditions. I would therefore like to ask you, as a competent Minister, what have you done to implement this framework? You know that on 8 October this sector had made a strike. He had asked to meet you. Have any such checks been carried out? There have been complaints. What happened to these complaints? Are there any fines? Is it within your priorities to deal with this category of workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Skourletis, I will not avoid answering the question you raised to me and I want to be honest. I don't know what you mentioned. In this case, however, I will answer, as you have raised the question, that no one is hiding when it comes to the independence of justice, and that I think that we should keep it as an eyewitness in this Chamber and outside this Chamber, because our country is a favoured state, a state that respects the laws, procedures, the Constitution and the Constitution has defined that justice is independent. I now come to the question, which you raise as a question. I would like first of all to say that the people who are currently carrying the services, workers called 'delivery', in the world that today is excluded from their homes because of Lockdown, are a world against which we are really all aware. The primary concern of the Ministry of Labour is that the existing legal framework for the protection of the health and safety of workers is adhered to, and more to two-wheel drivers in the distribution and transport of products and articles. This is a sector of workers, whose supply has undoubtedly been constantly emerging and emerged, particularly since the first day of the pandemic in our country, but especially during Lockdown, as these workers had to bear the huge burden of work by carrying out a large number of economic transactions and activities due to exceptional restrictive measures. In any case, I inform you that the safety and health inspection services at work throughout the pandemic were and remain committed to protecting the health and safety of workers in general and especially. This is why extensive checks have been carried out on compliance with both existing legislation on safety and health at work and on the application of emergency specific public health measures and health protocols to address the risk of spreading the pandemic. The priority of our policy is to protect the working rights of workers, whether they relate to their health and safety or to their remuneration, licences, overtime and in general to the legality of our country's Labour Law. With regard to your first question as to whether all the legislative provisions adopted and the circulars adopted during our governance are being applied, I would like to address the following points: The general framework for health and safety at work is provided for in the Code of Health and Safety at Work, known as the CNS. It is L.3850/2010 and it concerns all workers employed by an employer with any employment relationship. However, particularly for distributors, the provisions of Article 56 of Law No4611/2019 concerning the protection of workers from the risks to their health and safety, which may result from road accidents in the distribution and transport of products and articles, are applicable. So, with regard to the application of the relevant distribution provisions, the Ministry and the competent department are going a step further and today we are in a process of setting up an inter-ministerial working party, which is intended to draw up a KHS project, in accordance with Article 56(4). The specific Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for Labour, Civil Protection and Infrastructure will define the certificates and other documents to be provided by the employer for the proper maintenance of vehicles, the type and specifications of protective equipment, the specifications and technical characteristics and storage areas, the attached space, i.e. the certification body, the vehicle stability, the standard written assessment of professional risk, and any other details of application. However, until the adoption of the above-mentioned OHIM, the protective provisions of paragraph 2 shall be fully applicable which defines the protective helmet as referred to in Article 12(6) of the Road Traffic Code as suitable for the protection of the rider of the moped or motorcycle, waterproof protection, gloves and retro-reflecting vest. The employer also supplies with appropriate protection equipment for workers - a protective helmet, coats, gloves, etc. - and with any other measures planned, which will be without financial burdens on the worker only by the employer. I stop here, Madam President. I shall continue in my dentistry and refer to the fines it has made and to the checks that the AAR has done for this sensitive category of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u124	Minister, I honestly cannot say whether I am surprised or angry at your non-response to the issue I raised, which is a question of democracy. The Chief of Officer Response, the Chiefs of the other two parties, elected parties, cannot at present be called upon to apologize. For what? What should the D.A. Prosecutor investigate, which is supposed to act on the basis of legislation? Are you coming here to tell us we're not interfering? What kind of signal are you currently giving the prosecutors in society? You are obviously giving this signal that you gave the day before yesterday that happened in Athens on the eve of November 17, authoritarianism and repression. It seems to you that the attitude of society is frightened by what you are preparing to do at its expense and you want to give a signal of fear and refusal of claim. It won't pass you. These things are not happening in Western republics. So I do not think you have chosen to give this answer at this time. In relation to the question, notice, I didn't ask you to describe what the law says. We know that very well, and the workers also know it. I asked you if you have reached conclusions, if you have a specific plan, your services, implementation of the law. Do you not know that children - mostly young people, but not only young people, are people and older people - who are engaged in courier transport are being blackmailed many times and that employers have passed on the maintenance costs and fuels of the two-cycles they operate? Do you not know that in too many cases individual protection measures are eventually left on paper? Will it finally come in, so that we can control these businesses, the number of traffic in the ERGAN system, which will help us not only control the working conditions, but also issues of tax evasion for these businesses? Or don't you know all this? This is all very well known. That's what the workers asked you to do in the strike and refused to see them. Why such arrogance? What does a Minister scare you to see the workers? In any case, look, I think it is absolutely mature now to assume that this category of two-cycle drivers, the so-called 'telivers', which do not only concern the focus, is a separate, special speciality and must be recognised as such and therefore those workers should be placed in the category of heavy and unhealthy characters. Heavy and unhealthy in practice what does it mean? It means that some additional years of pension are recognised and are given this possibility more quickly. Imagine a man of your own or my own age - because there are such things as having to drive a snowmobile - rain through the intensification of today's day! These companies active in this sector have over-profit at the moment. In any case, workers are not consumable, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, I see Mr Skourletis' angry style, and I wonder why this whole theatrical performance is. I understand that he wants to raise a little tons to say that there is a problem of authoritarianity in the government. But you won't find it in our government, Mr. Skourleti. We are a government of deep democratic confidence and prove it daily by our presence in Parliament and parliamentary control by all the ministers, by the Prime Minister himself, with the current questions, by our behaviour towards the world and, in general, by our behaviour and respect for the institutions. I am saying this because I would like to end up with something you have mentioned last, about the great sensitivity to workers, and at the moment towards the children who actually make this particular category of profession, by transferring their services to the streets with the petty machines. Mr. Skourletis, to ask another Minister, I could justify it. Weren't you the Minister of Labour? You who ask me these things! Four and a half years what have you done, Mr. Skourlet?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u127	The law is asking for you to apply!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u128	Are you coming today and leaving the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u129	You know the demands!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u130	All right, all right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u131	Do you know the requests?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u132	I had to be wise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u133	Apply the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u134	Yeah, yeah, well, well, well, well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u135	Don't "good, good" me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u136	You see, Mr. Skourlet, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Comrade, please. Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u138	So authoritarian as Mr. Skourlet. Do not show his authority here, he showed it to workers for four and a half years, to insured, with the general behaviour of SYRIZA. I now plead with him and say to him: He was Minister of Labour. Four and a half years, what did he do for the workers? Is today coming to call on the New Democracy, which we have actually given a sample of writing with our behavior, with our policies for the benefit of workers, especially at the pandemic? He also knows too many times and where he goes and associatess that he is told: "Besides that we are voting for you, the little group, we are making our cross that is governed by others." And his employees call it his unemployed. Because they know that with this government at least during the pandemic period, everyone was protected and protected. I now come to that specific question. Regarding the controls and the complaints and sanctions that have been imposed to date, I would therefore inform the House and Mr Skourletti that the inspection services had carried out during 2019, in the second half of 2019, in our period - a two and a half-month control programme for catering operations where two-and-a-half months were employed by distributors with two-circuits - deliverers and courier couriers, pursuant to the APRC's Circuit on that date. I'm avoiding numbers. In the context of this programme, then, nine hundred and thirty-seven audits had been carried out in Greece and thirty-four administrative penalties were imposed - fines for alleged infringements. I am referring to controls relating to the observance of the basic obligations of employers, with regard to safety issues, the health of bicyclical distributors. Since the entry into force of Article 56(1) to (5) of Law 4811/2019, the application of Article 56(5) has, in practice, been one of the control posts of the inspectors of the SEA in the undertakings with their codes for postal transport, courier transport, delivery and catering activities and the rest. In this context, in 2020 and 15 November, Madam President, there were three hundred and eighty-two checks on the application of Article 56 of Law 4611, and twenty-three administrative penalties were imposed - fines and two penalties for alleged infringements. Eleven of these checks were carried out following similar complaints for failure to grant the necessary means to distributors - two-cycle drivers. In fact, I would point out that the checks under Article 56 are carried out in business stores and not on the road, as far as the task of inspection is concerned, and not in public traffic, where the provisions of the Road Traffic Code apply. I can assure you that the services of the Ministry of Labour ensure that the rules on the protection of workers are respected and that, as laid down by the law, the offenders are punished, as is demonstrated by the evidence I have just provided. Finally, on the occasion of the question, I would like to inform you of a recent initiative by the Ministry of Labour - particularly important - which concerns a specific group of these workers. In particular, with the 4-11-2020 circular of the Ministry of Labour we have solved a timeless problem of catering distributors - delivery - on how to secure them. We have for the first time created a modern working and insurance framework that removes uncertainties and arbitrary practices of the past, as we inherited them from the SYRIZA and lays down uniform rules for all workers in the distribution of catering products. On behalf of the Ministry of Labour, we recognise that this is a sensitive category of workers. We are on their side and the message we want to send is that keeping legality is a priority for us, and these people, these workers are on their side. That is why the mandates given are, as a matter of priority, to carry out checks on the specific focus services. The fines are what I mentioned before, those checks I mentioned before, which show that Mr Skourletis's question was actually about impressions rather than about substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the second with No 566/15-10-2020 question of the petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Service of insured - retired ECA in remote areas, islands and mountain municipalities'. The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutz. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the question concerns the service of the insured in remote areas, islands and mountain towns. As is well known, there is a gradual reduction in IKA's stores in previous years and until the abolition of IKA's own and creation, but provision is made for the abolition of OGA correspondents on the basis of Law4389, as long as the decision to operate at the seat of the regional service store by EKA is adopted. The problem has already arisen in two regions, in islands and, of course, in Rhodope, where the correspondents have ceased to operate due to the adoption of the relevant ministerial decision. My question to you is: If you intend, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, to consider joining for the full service of the insured pensioners of the ECA and at least the farmers through the JEP services. If not, there is an alternative to creating an institutional framework to conclude a programme contract with any municipality that wants to serve its citizens with the Ministry of Labour, in particular with EKKA, for the provision of the respective services. If you do not adopt this, do you consider taking advantage of today's OGA correspondents with the institutional framework currently in force, but also expanding it to other responsibilities for the ECA in order to continue providing this service to the municipalities and not just to the seat of the county? In any case, tell us how you are thinking of ensuring that these regions are served, particularly the remote, mountainous and islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u142	Mr Kegeroglu, thank you sincerely through my heart - and I mean it! - for the very long way you have spoken and asked, but also for the very important and essential question you have asked, in that you give me the opportunity to answer the questions that you have put to the House today on e-EPCA in the timetable we have set for the completion of the digital transformation of the most important public body and for how it is moving. You are also giving me the opportunity to present the great innovations of "e-Efka" that have become reality even during the pandemic period. That is why I shall be tabling a motion for a resolution in the Minutes. I would therefore like to start by saying that the gradual abolition of OGA correspondents, Mr Kegeroglu, which is carried out under the law of the SYRIZA, at the same time as that of the local branches of e-ECA, formerly IKA, seems to be inhibiting - I am carefully using the word'seeing' - temporarily the direct and effective service of pensioners and insured persons living in border or remote areas. This is, however, a transient weakness that is dealt with day after day, as the digital transformation of EKKA, which is being attempted for the first time and is progressing quickly, combined with the organisational reconstruction of the National Social Security Agency not only solves and solves problems, but significantly upgrades the services of services of insured persons throughout the whole territory. At the moment, the e-ECA under unprecedented conditions and adverse circumstances, which in fact most of its human potential is being restricted to its home because of the pandemic, is being carried out - I mean it - worldly changes for the benefit of the citizen. In fact, some of the changes have already taken place. So I am presenting these twenty-one institutional major changes to the digital transformation of the e-ECA. These digital innovations are coming to contribute and complete within a specific timeframe the digital transformation of e - EKKA, at the same time as the digital transformation of the digital pension "ATLAS" by the end of 2021, aspiring e - EKKA to become the head of the most effective body throughout the state and throughout the state. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Security, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, we have upgraded the services for farmers through the new decentralised network of services of e-Venezia, exempting them from pointless moves of hundreds of kilometres and thereby addressing the chronic problem of their difficult service. Through the decentralisation of the services of the former GAAP and the transfer of responsibilities, farmers will no longer need to visit the regional parts of the former GAAP in matters of insurance, contributions and register, but will be served by the local offices of ECAA employees, depending on their place of residence. I think you know that. This has also been done in Crete, but also throughout Greece. It was one of the first organizational initiatives we took. In January 2020, the Region of Central Greece, where eleven thousand six hundred and fifty-two farmers in Fthiotis are now serving at the regional branch of employees in Lamia. In January, the transfer of benefits - allowances and funeral expenses - was also completed in the local branches of ECA employees. Mr. Kegeroglu, you are right when at the beginning of my term you asked me about the forty-five thousand outstanding cases of funeral expenses that we took in bags. Today, I am pleased to tell you that in these four months, in combination with the electronic way in which the funeral expenses are now being paid, which no one needs to come because we have built the new funeral payment system, which is electronic. The action was also extended to other prefectures and was completed within April 2020 throughout the territory, with the gradual provision of integrated electronic services via the e-ECA website in the context of digital transformation. These services will provide the possibility of a remote service service according to the majority of transactions, without any movement required. We have therefore created a modern framework of service for all the members of the Agency, free of harassment, bureaucracy and suffering. This has been achieved by the great effort of the officials, but also by the effective administration of e-ECA, which, through its actions and decisions, produces day-to-day solutions to diseases and problems of decades. However, this process is dynamically evolving and as long as the time goes, the situation will improve even more. Therefore, there may indeed be some delays and some problems mainly due to the coming of the pandemic, but, Mr Kegeroglu, I will give you in my dentext concrete answers for major structural changes that have taken place and for what we are planning to do by 2021. But these problems are temporary because we inherited a situation. Although I don't like to talk about the past, that's a reality. We need to solve pathogens for decades. Unfortunately, Madam President, we have also fallen into the pandemic period. We are depleted by human resources in the services of e-ECA, as in the entire state. That's perfectly logical and normal. The present Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos, with the correct circular he has produced, first protects the health of the officials and that is what we do in the private and public sectors. This makes communication with public services difficult, but it is temporary. I shall return to my dentistry with specific proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. The digitisation of the public, the digitisation of the EFCA, is technologically possible in recent years. So we cannot blame, Minister, twenty or thirty years ago. We can lay blame in recent years. This digitisation will give solutions and enable uninterrupted access in order to serve all insured persons and pensioners who have the ability to communicate digitally and electronically. The question, however, refers to the remote areas, mainly islands and mountainous areas - but not only because there are regions within the counties and regions which are neither island nor mountainous, but very remote - and especially people who do not have access to them. The State must not transfer the responsibility to accountants or others who will'service' - on paper - or do thanks to these people, whether they are retired or retired, who are unable to access a computer. We need to take care of them. We cannot send them sixty, seventy, 100 and twenty kilometers to the districts or counties where these districts are expected to operate. That is why, alternatively and definitely for the island and mountain regions, I think that there can be the solution that corresponds to the ECA anymore and not to the ECA, which will be on the basis of a programme agreement by the municipality of a particular official who will have this capacity, to have access to a terminal that you from the ECA will make sure that there is in the municipality and specific services that can be carried out on behalf of the citizen, insured and retired, who cannot be accessed. Therefore, the overall digital progress of the EVA helps to make it more accessible to all citizens - but also to the way I propose to you - of those who do not themselves have the opportunity. The municipality also has this responsibility in the wider context of its role in the service of the citizen. He's not irresponsible. In Vianno we, but in other areas, are even worse. In Rhodope, who have asked you a question that has not been answered, it is even worse for the mountain villages I mean, but for the islands, in the Dodecanese and elsewhere. I think you should consider this parameter as well. There is the institutional possibility for a programme contract for the OAED, that there should be an OAED correspondent within the municipality, a specific official. There's no way for the FBI. There is the old institution of ‘61 of the OGA, as you know, which today can be modernised and play a role. In this sense, then, I invite you to see how you will combine the progress of the digital evolution of EKKA with ensuring the service of people who cannot come in themselves and we should not send them to be forced either to the accountant or to a friend or other person who could serve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u146	I can hear your suggestions, Mr Kegeroglu. They've already been recorded in the Minutes. I would like to add, however, that in the context of the remarks you have made, we have already launched the simultaneous service of citizens and through JEPs combined with the digital transformation of e-ECA, because it is in the new era that no one is left without access to electronic systems. This is a parameter that we really need to see and see as a state. I would remind you, however, that at the moment we are facing the great challenge of the digital transformation of e-Vanca, which is taking place at a speed and will show this whole project at the end of 2021, that something similar has also been done with respect to taxes. Their number has been reduced, tax declarations are only electronically, no Greek citizen submits a manuscript declaration. Then I recall that the questions had been raised: 'How is it possible for an elderly person to submit his tax declaration digitally?' That is what happened every year, though. If I say that there is an important invitation, it is once in his life, especially the day when he submits his application for a pension. In Mr Kegeroglu's question - he is right why it is a pathetic age for pending pensions and the way we have treated citizens as a political system - especially for farmers and widows' pensions, I say that today they are taking them digitally in a second. These are the first two categories, Madam President, whose pensions come out in one second and in the timetable we have set, because we are all here judging. When I said these first two, no one believed me. They considered it anachronistic and impractical. It was the first time, and I have said a specific timetable - by the end of 2021 - that all Greeks will have their pension digitally. But Mr Kegeroglu's question is well founded and I agree with him. The challenge for all of us is to serve the citizen. I say, Mr Kegeroglu, that when it comes to serving the citizens of the regions concerned through JEPs in the services of the former OGAs by region, given the lack of local services, two joint ministerial decisions were adopted: Joint Ministerial Decision No 12407/8-7-2002, and Joint Ministerial Decision No 10264 of 2003 - are old - with which responsibilities are conferred on the JEPs related to those of correspondents. So, from the past, we have an authorisation of this kind to the JEPs. In addition - and this is crucial - the addition of new services is expected to follow. For example, under paragraph 12 of Article 17 of Law No4670, the insurance law that we have brought to Parliament, it is expected that the joint ministerial decision between me and the Minister of Digital Governance will be adopted, which will regulate the process of supporting the people insured for the electronic application and the decision taken by the civil service centres. So what I described before about the digital pension we're going to extend it. The farmer and the widow or widow will go to the JEPs, and he will make his application there, and he will automatically take it through the ATS pension. Moreover, with a view to improving the service of farmers and more rapid processing of their requests, the administration of e-ECA proceeded with the adoption of decisions to transfer responsibilities from OGA services to payroll offices, as I mentioned in my prototype. This is the important thing, because, Mr Kegeroglu, I accept the criticism. Enemy of good is the best. We have, however, taken a situation in our hands which - you are right - was this, listen: For farmers there were only nine parts of the country in July 2019 to serve them. Christos Hallaris, with the administration of e-ECA, proceeded to complete decentralisation, and today these centres became ninety-five. Farmers now have nine in ninety-five centres throughout Greece, and this has already been implemented. In any case, the Ministry of Labour is in close cooperation with the administration of the e-ECA. We are working on digital transformation, we are expanding the use of modern technologies, we are making use of interoperability and everything else. I'm hanging up. I said at first that an enemy of good is the best. I said that once again, I will say it three times this pandemic period and in the effort we are making to do what was missing from the Greek state. We're talking about the Ministry of Labour, in particular about e-ECA. We paid a million four hundred thousand electronics and distance transactions, when the Ministry of Interior imposed the restrictions because of the pandemic. I repeat, a million four hundred thousand transactions, old, not new! In particular, it is what I have tabled. Six integrated electronic services have gradually been put into operation since March 2020, through which ninety-nine thousand ninety thousand electronically insured transactions have been completed so far during the pandemic period. Second, distance service of the insured via electronic request, which is handled in a second year by the executives of the e-ECA branch since September 2020 operated by the platform: It has handled distance-free access to the structures of e-ECA sixty thousand ninety-four requests from fifty-five thousand four-sixteen insured persons. Third, request in combination with the scheduled appointment at www.efka.gov.gr for service in the branch. It runs from 1 September 2020, recent are all these services. Consider that with this last service four hundred tens of thousands of seventeen twelve appointments have been implemented by three hundred thirty thousand two hundred seventeen insured. You see - this is reflected in the positive effects of the crisis - that the crisis has forced us to speed up our paces, to increase speed and, as I have said, it is now the spear's tip to inherited diseases. We mustn't go back to the past. The challenge ahead is to solve the problems and we will resolve them. Mr Kegeroglu, thank you very much for the question you asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too, Minister. We now move on to the debate of the third under No 166/16-11-2020 on the first time question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on "The great disasters from the intense weather in Crete". Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Before entering the debate on the timely question, I would like to comment on the preliminary investigation into the presence of political leaders in the symbolic celebrations for the Polytechnics. The government, after the wave of police violence and repression, also asks for the change. Apparently, she is in panic because of her criminal policy to deal with pandemic, leaving the health system intact, while she had all the time to take action and avoid the worst. She's deeply exposed. So her threats will fall into the void. The Communist Party of Greece, the working people's movement, the progressive and radical people, the youth, neither terror nor threats nor terrorism. Political history, after all, is full of such threats and repression. The guards know. No ban can put on the plaster the struggles of our people. "This marble rust doesn't work," Minister! In relation to the topical question, once again, the inhabitants of Crete were faced with the enormous catastrophes and damage from the severe flooding phenomena at the end of October and early November. At Lassithi Pindada, the northern coastal front of the Municipality of Hersonisos, Mylopotamos, Amari, in the area of Platania Chania, in dozens of villages of Rethymno, disasters were incalculable. They even risked human lives. Houses, households, shops, cars, fields, flooded by fertile materials, agricultural properties, crops that have been immersed in water, agricultural equipment, livestock units, leading to a tragic situation in hundreds of people's families. Especially in Hersonissos, the disasters came upon those that caused the hail from Malia to Sisi at the end of October, with incalculable damage to both the provincial and rural road network on the northern road and go and say. Disasters in many popular properties, houses, farms, professionals are total, multiple tens of thousands of euros. Of course, the intensity of these weather phenomena cannot hide the timeless criminal responsibilities of the governments, the Region, the municipalities of Crete. Why? Because there has never been an overall design of integrated anti-military protection projects. There is, therefore, Minister of Anger, indignation about all these intercurrent blows that people are taking at a time when pandemic is speeding up the economic crisis, so that workers in tourism live the nightmare of unemployment, small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed people, professionals trying to save what they can save from their businesses and, of course, farmers, who are on the verge of bankruptcy, losing their income and destroying their jobs. So the government has to restore them and in fact directly. So we ask you, Minister: what do you intend to do to speed up the recording of damage, so that the competent authorities with staff are strengthened to complete this process quickly? Secondly, direct recruitment of permanent staff to the affected municipalities must be made to cover huge deficits and brave funding must be provided for mechanical equipment. Thirdly, to ensure their nutrition, health care, protection from pandemic, and to give them what they need. They still haven't cleaned houses, shops, crops, livestock units. Rehabilitate the road network and, above all, the rural network for people to go to their jobs. It will have to be financially supported by the state, by granting a monthly emergency grant, but the amount of their lost income, of course taking into account the number of members of each family, will have to be taken into account. To compensate without conditions and conditions at 100% for damages to dwellings, homes, shops, farm machinery, agricultural facilities, crops, animal feed, livestock and go by saying. To get rid of the ENPY these people, the income tax and solidarity tax for microprofessionals, farmers and workers affected. To freeze the debts of all those affected in taxes, insurance funds, municipality, banks, PPC, telephones, without incremental and interest, to delete interest and due debts and freeze debts until the farmers’ income is restored and the rest affected in the areas, in tax, municipality, PPC, OTE. To be exempt from VAT, OLAF, OAE, HABIA, income tax - what I told you before. Of course, there is a great thorn called design, study, construction of the required anti-military works with brave state funding, so that these flooding works can be done immediately. The delimitation of rafts, settlement and cleansing in and out of residential areas and, of course, the construction of river networks in the inhabited areas by drainage projects in the countryside, as well as forestry, anti-corrosion projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. After the previous introduction by my colleague of the Communist Party of Greece, let me say, before answering the specific question concerning the disasters in Crete, that all Greeks know that the first priority of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been the protection of human life. That was why the Prime Minister of Greece took the timely, hard and dramatic decisions in March. We were the first country in the whole of Europe. This basic principle has been declining at the present time in the actions of the Government and all state services. What matters is the protection of human life. In support of this, there are the recent restrictive measures that have been taken concerning Lockdown, which was and must be implemented, as is absolutely essential in any case. Because it is a pity that we have such great losses, a few months before safe vaccines come, as will happen throughout the European Union, which will lead to human lives and humanity being finally saved from the coronary pandemic. So we're fighting hard. I said earlier this morning that I do not think the question of the action to combat the coronary pandemic is an issue that is being offered for party controversy. Let us all keep in mind the behaviour of the first time when the country, society and the political system are truly united, and at least at that stage we have succeeded in being a model for the whole of Europe. My second point is that the government honours, respects and does everything to upgrade democratic institutions in this country. But democratic institutions require the rule of law to be respected. Respect for legality is an obligation for all of us. From that point on, each institution moves on the basis of its own powers. By the way, I would like to refer you to the speech made by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis on 20 July of this year, in the area where the Oropos prisons were "hospitable" hundreds of fighters against the dictatorship, against the junta. It is an area that, in cooperation with the state, the government and local government, will be exploited as a museum of history, a cultural area and a multi-faceted local development. I am sure that what the Prime Minister said on that day will fully agree with you, my dear colleague. We are convinced and do not change our views, but this does not mean that the restrictive measures concerning the period of the coronary pandemic should not be complied with. Let us not confuse restrictive measures aimed at public health and safety with anti-democratic methods that are far from the culture and policy of the current government. I now come to the answer to your question. First of all, I would like to point out that the reaction of the state mechanism to the catastrophe suffered by regions in Crete since the very heavy weather has been immediate and coordinated. From the first moment the phenomena occurred, there was communication with the region and mayors on the part of the co-legislators, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the Deputy Minister, Hardalia, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Rural Development. We've all been by the people. The next day, the government step headed by the State Secretary for the Interior, Mr. Livano, went to the area. They were two other Undersecretaries, the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Kefaloyannis, and the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr. Aygeakis, was the President of ELGA, they were officials of the State Mechanism, particularly the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is directly related to the issue of anti-military works. In full cooperation with the region and the municipalities are facing the situation. Only as far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned, can I give you the element, my dear fellow Member, that they have already been signed since the first day, as soon as the government step back has returned, 11 million euros for the financial support of self-government, the region and the municipalities declared in an emergency. EUR 11 million for the restoration of infrastructure, which has been hit to a very large extent. That is right and you said that infrastructures are related to economic life, to internal, to facilitate citizens, to projects and to interventions which are absolutely necessary to unfold as soon as possible in order to restore normality in people's lives. As far as the Ministry of Infrastructure is concerned, the engineering steps of the Ministry of Infrastructure made five hundred and thirty-three self-contained buildings until 16 November in the buildings of the Municipality of Hersonissos. They have made the particulars in this particular area that was indeed most affected by any other. In your question, the North Coastal Front area was indeed damaged. Hydraulic studies have been carried out for antimilar projects in the context of the construction of the York - Hersonissos of the North Road, which relate to the four of the eight streams of the area. Environmental conditions are expected to be approved by the decentralised administration in order to move forward. They are budget projects of EUR 12 million and without any doubt are very important to the region. Their importance lies in the fact that a stream called A3, from what the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure inform me, passes through the coastal settlement of Analipsis before it ends up at sea and as the Crete Development Agency on this stream has developed a densely populated structure - that is, it is a state - and has turned into the main municipal road of access to the beach and the sea, where many tourist units have been built. That is what concerns this particular case. Similar studies and projects must obviously be carried out to protect the settlements Malia, Stalis and Koutouloufari of the municipality of Hersonissos. As far as the flooding projects are concerned, which are planned - and I shall be tabling the relevant document provided to us by the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure - there are already two projects in progress, and in awarding procedures in this area there is another project and another two are planned, and it is a series of studies under way. You can have full information. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, as far as the regional services are concerned, they have taken all the necessary steps to ensure the sustainability of the roads. I told you that from the outset there has been direct cooperation with the Regional Director and with the regional authorities, in order to facilitate and deal with the avoidance of accidents and road communication between the settlements. Races were cleaned to regain a smooth flow of water, while, on the periphery side, fifty studies are being promoted to demarcate small and large streams and rafts in Crete. The contract was signed for the delimitation study of the river Joufros, a budget of 1,3 million euros, which causes very serious problems in the city of Heraklion. As far as the damage to agricultural production, plant production and livestock is concerned, I said earlier that the President of the ELGA himself was in the government step. Twenty seasonal geotechnics were hired to assist in the work of recording damages and to make the compensation of people who have actually been hit to a great extent as quickly as possible. Special attention will be paid to the damage caused to both equipment and capital. I talked to you at the beginning of my answer. Finally, I would like to stress that it is about compensation for the buildings, which passes through the municipality's action, only in the last two days have the relevant requests been made to the Ministry of the Interior. This is not a criticism of the municipalities. It was really tragic that the situation has come about and no doubt the money that people need - recorded by the committees that they have been affected - will immediately take it from the Ministry of the Interior. After all, as I told you, decisions of 11 million euros have been signed to tackle the problems in infrastructure on the island. Now, the Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, prepares for regulation and informed me both by the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikoras and by the State Secretary, Mr Vesyropoulos. However, this solution must of course include and concern those who have actually been affected. Because it is an area, as you know, my dear fellow Member, with a very large turnover from a series of companies. Not everyone has been hurt there, so it should be made clear that this concerns people and businesses, who have actually been affected, in order to facilitate them by suspending their debts over a period of time. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u151	Thank you too, Minister, even though you have spoken too much. You will also give me the opportunity - although I am not allowed by the Step of the House - to make comments, to remind you of something that has made me very much impression. In last year's destruction in Chania and especially in Platanias, there were blackmails on the part of the municipality for forced expropriation and whether the citizen wanted to compromise with the expropriation he was told, i.e. that he was taken on half the property, or else he would lose it all. I mean, that you, too, should note all this and watch very carefully, because property is being lost and lives are being destroyed. I'm sorry to take this initiative, it's not allowed, as I said before, but I couldn't help but say it. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u152	Minister, the truth is that the state mechanism, government, district, municipalities, has once again proved to be inadequate, unprepared and uncoordinated. I am not just talking about the state of the disaster, I am referring to the next step. Do you know who has contributed substantially and effectively? Volunteers, simple people, of course residents for their properties, while heroic was the stop of firefighters, the Fire Corps. They were the ones who gave hand to the affected world, not the state, unfortunately. The point is: Can such an extent be justified? We say that it could have been prevented at least if not in its entirety, but in much of this biblical catastrophe could have been prevented. I will ask you this: does the government - of course also concern previous governments, but are you now - have a record of errors? The region has no record, as does the municipalities. Now I ask: how do you plan, what are you planning? Because I heard you say here, 'we are planning, planning the region, planning the municipalities' and going on saying. These disasters in Crete, you know, came as a continuation of the unscrupulous disaster in Mandra initially, then in Matti with dozens of victims, in Thessaly recently and in other cases. We're not talking about a simple coincidence here. You know, climate change is not a divine punishment in general. That's where the man's finger is. And when we say man, we mean it comes as a result of the same capitalist development. Why, otherwise, this thing won't be explained. Here are various theories of the press that we could do nothing, that it was so extreme that the phenomena that exceeded human efforts and any measures. It's hypocrisy, as all these ribs were with the ministers who came down to Crete, partylors, etc. I don't say that the government won't go to record, but after everything we've been through since 2016 in Crete, with damage from Chania to Sitia, what's the use of this whole presence? I'll tell you why I ask what's the point. The Communist Party of Greece and the People's Coalition from 2017 until today in the Parliament, in the municipal councils, in the region, had hit the alarm. When we said that you never took advantage of the study "Dangerous Flood Management Plan" by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which concluded that there is a great risk of future flooding. Do you know which areas it was? The ones affected. What the study records from 2016 until today are the regions affected. Tell me what measures have you taken to make use of this study of a ministry? Of course, now everyone's trying to throw the blame off them. I am aware that the region has announced fifty studies on the delimitation of rafts and torrents in Crete, which will be completed, says, in two and a half years and the anti-milling projects will be financed and they will be done whenever they are done. So when? After a decade, if they do, at best. A few days before the catastrophes took place, the People's Symbol had tabled a question to the municipal council, which was discussed and confirmed that projects were being carried out and that anti-military protection is sufficient in Crete. But after a few days, we had these phenomena. So why believe the district chief? This is where the people of Carter did not see the 600 euros from the first flood on October 20th. You promised them the 600 euros, and the municipality has not given them it because, he says, you have not granted it yet, that is, the Ministry, the government has not granted it to the Municipality of Heraklion. How, then, will all these procedures that you say speed up, get this allowance at first, etc., so that they can be maintained? This isn't the ones who were in the first flood. In any case, in Crete there was never complete anti-military protection plan. And not only that, but you were giving - when I say you were giving, I mean the state, the government, the district, the municipalities - the free to hoteliers to do work at do. I'll get you the example you mentioned in the Pig stream. The blooms in the exploration were made by hotel owners with the approval of the Region. There are complaints from the residents themselves, documents. The flooding in the plain in Kastelli is due to the alteration of the soil, which was cut by two hundred thousand olive trees. I'm talking about the captivity and the ramps about the needs of TERNA, the new airport in Kastelli, with the artifacts of contractors in the Apostelemi dam, which had the flooding on the Lassithi Plateau, an extremely expensive over-dimensional project. The Mayor - I conclude with this, Madam President - is coming today, of course, to make his own oil, first and foremost, but also the government and the district manager, and he says that he has, by unknown persons, closed the tunnel door on the Lassithi Plateau, which leads to the Apostelemi dam, so that we have these floods. I mean, they're looking for invisible enemies to justify them. That's why they're looking for the invisible enemies. It is the responsibility of the State, the Region and the municipality above all. Is it shameful, then, to transfer responsibilities elsewhere to the invisible enemies and ultimately the ball to be thrown away? To the residents! That's the responsibility. In any case, we invite you immediately to take action. You do not answer the questions that we have raised on the substance. Didn't you answer in what sense? Because we do not want you to answer the press about the 'January'. In a relevant timely question, Mr Voridis said that the Legal Content Act could not be a card to meet the needs of the 'Januan'. I mean, not even at that level. In any case, however, not only 'January' but also what you have said does not meet the real needs. It's a total disaster! But now he's telling you a professional man, what's the cigarette gonna say? In these circumstances where tourism and small and medium-sized enterprises have been destroyed? There is a dry cleaning room, to tell you, which I visited, which has been damaged by 200,000 euros, all of the machines have been destroyed. Who's going to compensate him? Is he responsible for the disaster? That is why the government should immediately, without delay, compensate them for all the damage, at 100%, and relieve them of financial burdens such as what I told you in my prototype. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u154	Madam President, I retained your position on the issue of the Municipality of Platania in Chania. I just want to clarify something, which I think is often misinterpreted, from what I have noticed, in the debates that are taking place in this House. The Minister for the Interior and the Ministry of Interior is not the head of the council. Local government is an independent institution. The Ministry of Interior is responsible for the regulatory framework. In fact, I was impressed by what Mr. Synthrakis said. Self-government is self-government, my dear colleague. The state is the state. They're two different fields, two different institutions. They complement them, obviously, because they concern the lives of citizens and the organization of a democratic society, but relations are so. I believe that all the wings of the House should be interested in further strengthening self-interest in both its financial self-sufficiency and its administrative self-sufficiency. However, because this is a very serious matter, I want to see personally what has happened in this particular case. Now, for the rest that Mr Synthrakis said, I have to observe: if anyone wants to find out anything but problems and that there is nothing positive in this country, it is a way of dealing with it. Observe the phenomena, denounce them and condemn them. But you have said a number of things, Mr President. Let me ask you: The EUR 11 million that goes to self-government, to the municipalities and to the region of Crete, which have been signed and are at the disposal of the municipalities and the region, is not aid? Is that a river that we deceive? This amount is the sum of money received by the municipalities and by the region, at their request, to which the Ministry of Interior fully responds. So, what do you think? Are you saying that municipalities and mayors do not properly record needs, issues, demands, and that is why this is happening? The engineers and the rest of the workers in the state services who went to make the record of the damages, isn't that a state mechanism? On the other hand, I must tell you that I was very pleased with your position, which I fully share, of course, regarding the very positive action of our firefighters and volunteers, because nothing in this country can go ahead without the action of the Security Councils and their officials, such as the Fire Service. The same applies to volunteers in full. So, in this part, I'm totally in agreement. As far as the rest is concerned, I will tell you: The speed with which people will get their money for the construction and damages that have occurred is related solely to the work of the local government, to the work of the municipalities - exclusively! - and I don't accept the conversation either for a ball of responsibility or for nothing. We are clear and specific. And yes, this government has greatly improved its response times and reflexes when such disasters occur. I am not just talking about Crete. I am referring to any damage that has been done in the previous period, whether it is in Karditsa and in the wider area of Thessaly, whether it is in Istanbul, or the disasters we have suffered in the summer in Evia. A very serious issue is the issue of the overall planning of anti-military projects, because, indeed, the effects of climate change are very heavy and, indeed, it is a huge threat to the safety of people and the functioning of infrastructures, the problem with floods. Here at every stage, obviously, there must be planning. Yes, the Region of Crete has this specific design, which I told you in my reply and you mentioned. But can I tell you something, Mr. Comrade? If there were fewer studies and fewer projects, I'm sure you'd be complaining of opacity, corruption, violation of legality. What can we do? There is a specific legal framework in which both the Government and the State are moving towards the award of studies and the award of projects. In a few days' time, there will be a very important reform and improvement of N.4412 on the part of the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Infrastructure, which I think will help very much to speed up all the work processes and have a positive impact on the issue we are discussing, on anti-milling projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the debate of the last, fifth under No 163/16-11-2020 on a second-round question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'A facilitation of municipal recovery'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot speak with a few words on the intervening issues, which are very important and, above all, on the subject that has arisen in the preliminary investigation. Of course, we have justice, which is distinct power in accordance with the Constitution. However, I am taking this opportunity, as a party that, on 20 January, we called for measures to prevent and protect citizens from the coronary, to insist that it is necessary to obey the recommendations of scientists and the state and citizens in order to have fewer victims. At the same time, it was unnecessary for the government to decide, through the Chief of the Greek Police, to ban meetings. The government should take the example of Mr Tasula - who has just left the House - who has taken the initiative and consulted the parties, as the Vice-President knows, and for the presence in this House we have confined ourselves. In fact, it is unconstitutional, but we have confined ourselves to limiting the health crisis, so it does not become an institutional one. We were amazed at this initiative by the Prosecutor's initiative, because after Mr Chrysochide's public position on television that he was in touch with the political leaders - Mr Koutsoubas also confirmed this - in relation to the three events this initiative was unnecessary. We were amazed that it is excessive and in any case it is disorientated from the real problem, which is dealing with the pandemic, as you have rightly put it. On the subject you discussed earlier with Mr Syntagakis, I should just like to say a word, because it was indeed the Ministry of Interior that made a decision in one day and gave these fundings. I do not think that the problem with the immediate one is solved, but as a first move it is very important. However, see this: the Government refused, in particular Mr Vorides, to include the damage to Crete and the producers in the procedure that we tabled for Thessaly. And while this is a request from the President of the ELGA - in the presence of Mr Levanios - he submitted it to Crete to the District Director and to the Government - unfortunately, is Crete a 'black sheep' for Mr Voridis and did not accept this procedure? I'm closing up with this and I'm coming with our question very soon. Minister, you know that the debts of the municipalities to the municipalities have risen sharply and at the same time the needs of the municipalities have increased to support their citizens and to face the acute crisis that we are going through and the pandemic itself, as well as the economic and social consequences of it and above all to support the municipalities. In this sense, I asked you the question, to make it easier for the public debtors towards the municipalities, as well as for any form of debt to be paid to the municipalities in order to regulate them, and where there is the possibility, whether in prior arrangements or in debts that are now in existence, to collect significant amounts, to have an incentive to remove fines, surcharges and interest, so that the finances of the Government can be strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u157	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u158	Mr Kegeroglu, thank you for the question that really concerns a very serious issue throughout the country for local societies, for citizens, for local self-government. From the first moment the coronary pandemic broke out with the very negative consequences at all levels, the government had priority over absolute support and effort to save human life, support for local self-government with economic and institutional support and, of course, support for the local economy, local small and medium-sized enterprises and all the jobs they have and of course the weakest in social terms. Within this period we have given local government over EUR 200 million exceptional financial support. We have ensured that businesses, offices, companies that do not work because of the Lockdown decisions, do not pay municipal fees, and we have given the additional support to self-government to cover the lost revenue from this decision, but also from the general situation. We are responding positively - I have already announced this, we are fully in agreement with Mr Kegeroglu - with a regulation which comes in the next few days by legislative intervention from the Ministry of the Interior, in order to allow for a hundred and twenty instalments, the maximum - I think, nothing could be done better - in order to repay debts that have either natural persons, citizens, citizens, businesses or legal persons, to the municipalities and, of course, by making it easier that if they are paid for one-off, they should be abolished and not paid the additional burdens, fines, which have been imposed on specific obligations. So we fully respond to this case. We are also preparing, in cooperation with the Deputy Minister of State, a regulation which will also cover the issue of undeclared squares, a great, quiet reform that has been implemented and which has emerged from the deadlock of nearly three million Greek households. Since the end of the year will have to be paid, as it is recorded by the municipalities on the basis of the new data, and that means more than 150 million revenues throughout the country for self-government, we will also be preparing a special regulation for citizens in the undeclared square category. Details will be given for this next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, because you referred to the question of the competences and co-responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the municipalities and because a debate has taken place before us, of course, self-government is self-government, but it is not autonomy. We do not have autonomy in Greece, it works within the framework of national planning and on the basis of the institutional framework established by the state with a recommendation from the Ministry of Interior. So there are few cases where you can say that you are unresponsible for matters relating to the municipalities, not for a question within the Regional Council. Okay, that's a political thing. But also with the question that we had with Mr Brutsi and you were here, you have an absolute co-responsibility because, as I raised with the cooperation of the municipalities and the JEPs in particular, the problem can be solved, and that is where Mr Brutsis concluded. You told me that you were unresponsible while you weren't. I mean that many times we have to work not bureaucratically in relation to the recommendation of the agency that is obliged to do so, but also in relation to the perspective, which means that a legislative initiative can give solutions, and that is why it is also the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. Now, for the question that concerns the reduction of revenue, the pandemic does indeed have much more serious consequences than the ones we initially assessed. The European Commission, in particular the Barometer with the October report, recently published, is talking about a reduction in revenue. 83% of the municipalities and regions expect a reduction in their revenues, while 56% of them expects a sharp reduction. So that imposes two things on us. First of all, at the end of the year, to see how much revenues have been reduced for each municipality and to rationalise the decisions you have already made in advance and with an overall decision to cover the corresponding percentage in each municipality, because it has been made on the basis of the few balance sheets or, if you like, the revenue reductions that the Ministry of Interior had in certain periods of time. So you are given the opportunity, at the end of the year, to see and in any case to rationalise this aid which you have done, which was important, because it would not be possible for the municipalities to operate in any case if we did not have this exceptional aid. The question of the recovery of income from debtors cannot, of course, be done differently than by regulation, but at the same time also by incentives. See how you will include in the regulation the best motives that you can, in the context of the law and the Constitution, in the sense of removing increases, interest, fines and others that make it difficult to integrate into regulation and in the event that this is of course with the one-off payment, which is normally not the citizen, the Greek taxpayer in general, if there is such an incentive, find ways and find them. There is this possibility, if it is legislated, to make it easier for municipalities to collect and to pay for those who accept the services of the municipalities not to be deprived of them due to a lack of revenue and financial resources of the municipalities. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u161	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u162	I'll be very brief. Mr President, you are extremely experienced in this Chamber and in the political overall, but this does not relieve us all of the need to renew developments and what is happening in the public administration. What I mean: Since I took over the duties of the Minister of Home Affairs, I have obviously realised that the Ministry of Interior has a huge range of competences, whether with other ministries or with other institutions, as a ministry that has a central role. The New Democracy Government and the Prime Minister had, however, drawn up a plan that has changed to a number of things relating to responsibilities. The JEPs, for example, are part of the Ministry of Digital Governance. The Ministry of Interior is institutionally linked, according to the section defining the work of the JEP workers and not according to the content of the policies pursued, which I repeat, is the subject of the Ministry of Digital Governance. That is why, among us, between the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Digital Governance, the Minister for Labour - good time, Mr Brutsis, who was here a moment ago - there is close cooperation on a number of these issues. This is only as clarification of what was said earlier. I fully agree that, always when citizens have strong motives, they respond to these regulations. This has also happened with the regulation on undeclared squares. But I have already said that we are fully responding to what you are asking for with your question. It will look like this in the regulation that we will bring in the next few days to the House, so that we and the natural persons and businesses can stand up at the time when the whole country, like the whole of humanity, is tested by the coronary pandemic. As far as self-government is concerned, I do not think it has taken so many financial resources before in a year and indeed in a very difficult year. It is a conscious choice of our Government, because we want to support this institution and make self-government a pillar of local economic development, as well as social cohesion, solidarity and civil service, so that we can achieve the best quality of their lives. It's a very basic principle. It is a priority for our government and we implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-23-S1-commons.u164	With the consent of the House at 18.53 the sitting on Wednesday, November 25, 2020, at 9 a.m., on the subject of this House's work, (a) a report by the President-in-Office of the World Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical questions.
