ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-1-2020, the Minutes of Friday 17 January 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau for the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Agreements on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that the Secretary of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today, Monday, 20 January 2020, the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 374/14-1-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Lina Mendoni, at 19: 00. The Question No 362/13-1-2020 will be answered by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr. Ioannis Placiotakis. It will be the first to be discussed. Finally, Questions Nos 355/9-1-2020 and Nos 786/19-9-2019 and 1457/23-10-2019 will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. We can get started. The first question will be discussed under number 362/13-1-2020, the first question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Vardakis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "To carry out the full implementation of the Transport Equivalent for Crete" programme. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor for three minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if I am not mistaken, it is the fifth parliamentary intervention on this matter. There were three parliamentary questions to you and two to your previous Minister. And I say this in order to prejudge and tell you that this is not the case for opposition reasons, but it is clear for essential reasons. Minister, the previous government voted, for the first time, by Law 4551/2018, to apply the insular cost compensation to the inhabitants and businesses of island Greece in order to mitigate the differences between islands and continental areas, given the high cost of maritime transport and to islands. The decision and accession of Crete to the Transport Equivalent Programme under Article 14 of Law 4606/2019 was followed. I recognise that the equivalent of transport is not just an allowance, but a substantial support for the stimulation of the competitiveness of the companies in Crete, with multiple indirect and direct benefits for the national and regional economy. Unfortunately, the Joint Ministerial Decision 568/2019 has not so far been amended to allow the companies in Crete to submit requests for funding. He is denied, Minister, in this way by the companies based in Crete, an important tool for mitigating transport costs. It is well known that 570,000 euros had been committed for the project as a whole. Therefore, funds were available for the full implementation of the programme for Crete, but I do not know why the Ministry refuses to channel. The question, then, is: Why have you not yet amended Joint Ministerial Decision 568/2019, so that companies in Crete can apply for funding? In addition, we would like you to inform us why the implementation of the programme for Crete and natural persons is not complete if available resources are available. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you continue to make the same mistake as you did as a government. In other words, as a reform or a strategy for our islands, you are characterising a measure of financial aid and subsidies. And, of course, you are deliberately doing so, for reasons that you know very much, because it is precisely because the SYRIZA government has abolished the reduced rates of VAT or simply did not make the same thing for our islander. I will tell you what I am saying at every opportunity, that the creation of subsidised economies and the adoption of short-term measures do not mitigate regional disparities, but produce the opposite results. And allow me at this point to mention specific information on the application of the transport equivalent to date, meaning the efficiency of this measure: One-and-a-half years for passengers have therefore been allocated funds of EUR 23.657.078. EUR 25,014.308 has been allocated to enterprises. The measure concerning fuels has also been allocated EUR 7 515 799. Therefore, from the total of EUR 570,000 000, which you call for, we are only 9.8% of the absorption. It can therefore be easily understood that there is obviously a problem in implementing this measure, in particular, that island and island enterprises did not embrace this measure. I would mention to you that one out of ten companies used or benefited from this measure. Of course, it is a matter that concerns us. Obviously, we are also waiting for the official statement of the evaluation by the University of the Aegean, which you had commissioned in advance. Finally, let me say that as far as fuel is concerned - it is a measure that you piloted on thirty-three smaller islands - this measure shows significant distortions. The phenomenon is observed, for example, on a particular gasoline island with a short distance between them, just fifty meters, to show another price. So you understand that there is a problem, a market distortion, because there is a problem with the application of de minimis. So what do we do? Here is the Secretary-General for Island Policy. We are promoting a change in legislative intervention - even though we have given four months and you are well aware - because we want benefit, the final beneficiary should be the islander, who in particular in the small islands wants specific support from the state. We are doing this because you have demonstratedly ignored the interventions of the institutions, such as the Federation of Venizelos Greeks and the Association of Petroleum Companies of Greece. Let me turn to the recent speeches in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Ioannis Pakisotakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] One particular element is that the previous government has concealed serious elements of the process, and even taking up our duties as a new leadership - take note - there was no information system to serve the agency's requests, but also the electronic cross-checking of data. In conclusion - and I would like to point out this - we are going to rationalise this measure, both in terms of businesses and, above all, in terms of passengers. We do not want subsidised businesses. We want competitive business. I will also be able to mention specific details on this point. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you know my sympathy, but unfortunately here we're going to ruin it. First of all, gas-shippers belong to the chambers and I will tell you why I am saying that. Clearly your answer does not satisfy us and leaves us suspicions. There is no apparent political will to apply the transport equivalent to the companies in Crete, thus putting the island on the margin. Minister, I did not come here today to discuss a matter of major importance for communication. And I think the same applies to you. I will not go into the process of analysing data or economic studies, because you have these. You gave me an answer that you gave, if I'm not mistaken, and just four months ago. The question is: You told us what the previous government did. Wrong or right, society will judge it by response. Perhaps you do not understand that Cretan companies cannot enter the platform, which is why the sums you have said are at these levels. Secondly, I would like to inform you that in the answer you gave, which you gave, and four months ago, the question arises as to what you are doing four months ago, not what the previous government you told me. Because this is essential, Minister, at last give us a sign of writing about the infamous development you imply. The transport equivalent not only to Crete, but to all islands, is not an allowance, it is not a subsidy. Excuse me! It's a development measure. I don't know why you haven't figured it out. So you have the study of the University of Piraeus, which I will testify to in the Minutes. You have the proposal of the four Chambers of Crete, documented for some time now. I have submitted on 26-9-2019 a report from the Chamber of Finance on this matter. On 1 November we tabled a question with the former Minister of State, Mr Santorinio, and we have not received an answer. The study that has been carried out for eight months by the University of Piraeus also includes elements from ELSTAT and confirms once again the need for support in Crete in the agricultural sector and in the companies that need raw materials, as well as those that supply their products to the rest of the country. Therefore, Minister, we must support these operations, which is why I have tabled this timely question. The previous government, whether you like it, Minister, or not, has opened the way for the first time for the equivalent transport in the country. So I think you have an obligation, following these facts I quote, to testify to the University's study in the Minutes - not today or tomorrow, but yesterday, to take the political will - and I think you may have it personally as a Cretan after all, I do not know what your government is doing - and to get Crete completely into the transport equivalent. All the rest, my Minister, are pretenses in sin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u8	First of all, since the first day of taking up our duties, we have started a sincere and methodical dialogue with all stakeholders, with the island chambers, districts, mayors, mayors, in the form of an integrated maritime policy for the island area, on the occasion of the preparation of the NSRP 2021-2027, as well as the redesign of the Public Investment Programme. To date five regional meetings have been held with a hundred eighty-eight institutions. And already - a few days ago - in cooperation with the Greek Development Bank - and this is the first time in the island area - we are discussing aid for the island businessman with specific financial instruments - we are, of course, also waiting for the relevant findings of the study of the island production system drawn up by the University of Piraeus, as well as the Institute of Regional Development, because we want to be targeted - and financial programmes to support investment in the island area with capital, with low-priced loans, as well as subsidies for contributions and guarantees. At the same time, we are planning - and this is innovation, it has never been done in Greece - a specific sectoral programme for an integrated maritime policy to shield our islands in the long term, with development resources, and in any case avoiding fragmentation. Now, especially for Crete, because this is an interest: I agree with you that I, too, as a Cretan, am primarily interested - but in terms of budgetary and also of course of viability - in implementing the application of the transport equivalent in Crete as well. We are therefore moving towards the integration of Crete into a system of support for transport costs, but in areas which really favour the competitiveness of businesses and sectors, such as agricultural production, packaging. I want us to be specific and targeted. So agricultural enterprises, and the primary sector, until now, were not expected to participate in the transport equivalent. We will take the necessary legislative initiatives and will soon be able to announce the scope of this measure. Now, for passengers we are considering and launching the integration into a support scheme for residents with income and social criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. There are two questions, one from Sophia Sakorafa on behalf of Mera25 and the other from Vassilis Kegeroglou from the Movement of Change to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs - which Mrs Zacharaki will answer - which refer to the same subject. In particular, they refer to the 2008 SAP 3P tender. I propose that both questions be discussed together. I think you don't disagree, Mrs. Zacharaki. That means, in practical terms, that the rights of time will not be lost at all. Everyone will have two minutes for protology and three minutes for denology and the Minister will have six minutes for its protology and six minutes for the second. The following questions will therefore be discussed together: The third, with number 355/9-1-2020, is the first-round question by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mer25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘No excuse for failing to appoint successful 3P/2008 competitions’. The first with number 1457/23-10-2019 question of the petitions by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Union treatment of teachers, successful in the written tender of the 2008 SAP". Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we have asked you a question, which I imagine you will know, because it has been tabled several times and has been discussed at your ministry. He has also been tried several times in court. Successful teachers have been afflicted for too many years. A competition was opened in order to establish lists of nominees of teachers, teachers, teachers, primary and secondary education for the school years 2009-2010 and 2010-2011. In this context, forty-eight posts in the IP11 branch of primary education were announced. The positions adopted corresponded to the statutory rate of 60% of the total number of empty organic posts to be filled. The candidates in this category belonged to twenty-three people who received a minimum ranking according to the law to be classified in their list of successful ones. However, they were not included as a result of their rating in the tables of forty-eight nominations drawn up by the AACC. These candidates, in fact, had a real service of twenty-four months of subsistence or pension. The critical school year 2011-2012 was an invitation from the Ministry of Education for a permanent appointment to cover positions of the IP11 Physical Education Sector, but without - beware of what I will say - to provide, as the law imposed, no posts for those who had 24 months of actual service and had achieved in the APRC competition. Therefore, because, despite the law, these appointed teachers of Physical Education were omitted from the appointment and they have not yet been appointed eleven years later and because the state with its long-term omissions and responsibilities had to take the legal steps to complete the appointment of these successful ones and because, as it is obvious, similar practices are a plight for the citizens, who form their personal and professional life on the basis of the prospect of their legal appointment and still eleven years after indefinite, for these reasons we are addressing the following question, Minister: What action do you intend to take in order to remedy the injustice suffered by the successors of the OSCE Tender, the IP11 Physical Education Sector, in order to complete their appointment procedures, given that Mr Gavroglou, in the committee responsible, referred to the rightful teachers of the OSCE of 2008, saying: ‘We are appointed to the courts by the 2008 CSCE competition’. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu, we're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In 2008 there were more calls than 3P, 1P 2008, 2, 3, 4 and 5. So we had the competition, but, as has been said, for trainers and for other specialties, there has been the phenomenon of not being successful. The Ministry of Education failed to invite them to be appointed and the turn came for some of the omissions to resort to justice. A total of four hundred eighty were appealed and vindicated. And so the Greek state comes after this vindication, not to correct its mistake, i.e. in total to invite the omissions for appointment, but only to give the right to those who had a judicial decision. Thus, after the regulation of Article 73 of Law 4589/2019, after much delay again, the successors of this competition were appointed, but not all of them. Only those who appealed were summoned. And we have the phenomenon that they have now been appointed, based on this arrangement, to achieve the competition in 2008, but with a lower score and to have stayed outside the same specialty with higher scores. It is a contradiction with what the Minister said in his report when he proposed to Mr L.4589, which said that the compliance of the administration is thus achieved, of course, with a number of judicial decisions, but in order to have equality, in order to have justice for those who had not been appointed until that time. So I come and ask, in order to correct this injustice which has been done, if the government intends to take a legislative initiative in order to restore the law and treat people who have written better, who have achieved a higher score and have not been appointed against others who have been called on on a lower score, to be treated equally in this case. In closing my prototype, I would like to inform you that in 1998, which had become an AACC competition, they had been successful without appointment. I was one of those who insisted since 2004 that I was elected a Member of Parliament, and I had made about thirty-six Members of Parliament until Mr Vernardakis - I think - proposed a legislative regulation that covered all the successful ones, whether or not they had recourse to justice. So, it's not a question of who has appealed to justice, but what this Greek state wants at last. It had expired on this 1998 table, but it came back under the legislation and these people were vindicated. We call for the same thing to be done for those teachers who have stayed outside and who have not complained because of financial burdens on justice in order to be justified. It was certain that they and the four hundred eighty were also entitled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Mrs. Zacharakis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Sakorafa, Mr Kegeroglu, I am sorry that I could not be present last Monday, would have already answered your other question on time. Thank you for your patience. Indeed, I have answered this question and in writing what is the case, you have already described it: the successors of the 2008 PSCE and those who were not appointed. The Ministry of Education, however, has already fulfilled the obligations regarding the appointment of the candidates and the validity of the tables - and I repeat that it is not a decision anyway - it has already expired for some time now. In fact, you are well aware - and I would like to make a comment on this later, Mr Kegeroglu, and on the new procedure - there is a new system of appointment and recruitment of alternates. You know that there was a decision by the S.H.E., which forced us anyway to proceed with a different process of recruitment and appointments with specific criteria, which are, in any case, set by the S.H.I.P. These teachers - Mr Kegeroglou, you mentioned - have already appealed to the administrative appeals and have already taken two very recent decisions of the Administrative Court of Athens, namely 2169/2019 and 2173/2019, in which they clearly stated that there is no right to appoint these teachers, as no application had been made for the service within a reasonable period of time from the time of publication of the decision of the Board. We have worked with our lawyers as well, and it is a matter which has been very problematic to us, and we have also worked with the Legal Council of the State. The truth is that both the view of the administration and the number of decisions reaches what I mentioned before. It is also a very important element that I also mentioned, that the values of the '08' PSAP tables have already ceased to apply, following the February 2018 Ministerial Decision - I recall that it was the previous government - and indeed with the extension of the transitional period of Law 3848/2010, which was for the last time in 2017 and 2018. In this context, we conclude that the judgement of the Ministry of Education is that the obligation on these people who had been justified and put in place anyway has already been met, and the others who had not relied on have already taken a negative decision by the administrative courts on the possibility of them being recruited anyway. Thank you very much. This also concerns specialities and the IP11, because we have said about the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u15	Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u16	I honestly didn't understand you. I'm really talking to you, I don't understand at all. Because I have decisions of the S.E., which say the administration is obliged to complete the process. And the process says that these people because they are successful, during the S.H.E., must be restored and they have already been delayed far, far more than ten years. For 11 years they have been suffering. You're an instructor. I have been a teacher and I know very well what that means and you know that very well. There are families who have been afflicted for many years, financially spent, running in the courts, who have had no obligation to do so. What process? For a procedure in which the State itself submitted them. They went into the process of giving tests and after they passed tests, the state itself comes and tells them what? It tells them "I consider these tests to be invalid". Let's be serious. You will allow me to tell you that I consider it the greatest injustice that could have been done to these people and you are obliged to restore it. I will leave, Mr President, for the Minutes to be present, the decision of the Skopje, which is very specific. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm so sorry. You have hired illegally appointed by this procedure and left out people who should already be appointed to the public. You will allow me to say that the state has not taken the necessary steps to restore this injustice. And you know what the state did? And that's the paradox. The state went and appealed to a legal procedure to justify its illegality. That's what you told us right now. Madam Minister, a year has passed since the irrevocable court ruling. The decision of the Council of State is irrevocable, as far as possible. It shall be the right of those appointing officers concerned. In the last few years, therefore, the responsibility lies with you, your own government, and it is your own shoulders to solve it. Compliance with judicial decisions is the only possible option for a state that it considers to be favoured. Because we have heard this many times, Madam Minister, both from you and from all the ministers and from the Prime Minister himself. I expect you to respond with a very specific definition of procedure and time and implementation. I want you to tell me how much longer it will take after so many years of living and judicial suffering to be legally justified, namely by their immediate appointment, these people who entered this process, gave examinations to an instrument called ASAP, succeeded and left them out. These people for so many years have been substitutes. They meet all the conditions, and I, indeed, do not understand your answer nor why they have yet to be restored. I want a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the competition took place in 2008. We came and experienced a crisis and were suspended, you know very well, all recruitments in many areas. There have therefore been problems in implementing, for a certain period, the state's obligation to recruit all those who have achieved. They improved, one way or another, conditions. The state is coming to correct its mistake - on the basis of course of the judiciary decision of the four hundred eighty who have been well-inhabited - but this judicial decision, and then the act of the state, has, in fact, attracted all those who were at least above the last successful one. In other words, one cannot be appointed as one who has succeeded and was in order, for example, five thousand and is not appointed as one in the order of two and a half thousand. That's the point. This is an obvious injustice and, of course, an inconsistency of the state. We pointed this out in April to the Minister, Mr Gavroglou, when he had the regulation, and he insisted that only those who were judicially justified should be included in the regulation. Poor thing! If so, that the government resigns and let the courts decide and rule. The government and parliament are to legislate the law and the necessary one, and justice indicates the law, and by its judicial decisions it did not indicate that Manolis, Kostis, Giannis, who appealed, were wronged. But all those who, in fact, succeeded, were wronged whether or not they had fled. Alas! So you need to see the issue from the outset, in the sense that there was an injustice. There is a recognition with the judiciary on the part of the state, there is the decision of the Council of State that the state must complete this process and it is not an argument that the table has expired. It's not an argument. The State and the Ministry of Education are surely in a safe way all the information about who the successors are. Legislatively, it restores power only to vindicate these people, so that we can take all our responsibilities for this injustice which has taken place. We say, for our part, that if legislation comes into force that brings back the table and justifies the people who have been wronged, because they have a higher rank than those appointed, I think we will vote on it, not only the ones we are committing today to this declaration, but the whole House. The same happened with the arrangement I told you in '98. The large majority of the House supported it. I don't remember what each party did, but it supported it. Because it was a state obligation and no one took the initiative to do it. So don't reject it. I would say today to see our proposals, to review it with your lawyers and come with political will. It's a matter of political will! Don't say now that it's a matter of judicial decision, it's a question of the validity of the table. We all know what's going on. Do you want me to tell you fifty cases where we have restored power, results, declarations, contests, and have restored injustices? We have often done so and zealously, many times and beyond what we should perhaps have done. We do, however, because the failures of the administration - which concern both the government and the entire administrative mechanism - cannot be at the expense of the citizens, they cannot be at the expense of the people who have been involved so far. And can I tell you something else? By changing the system that, as you said, has been made - we know - these people as substitutes will no longer have the advantage they have had of being successful in an SAEP tender any more. So it's worse fate than those who didn't even participate in a competition. If that's possible! I urge you not to give us a definitive decision today, to make a commitment to rethink this issue and to come to a debate aimed at restoring justice for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mrs Zacharakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u20	Mrs Sacorafa, the answer may have been unclear, but I gave you the evidence. I know very well what these teachers might have been for eleven years, because the truth is that our doors are open to talk to everyone who at this time may feel has suffered this suffering, perhaps even injustice, someone would say. But I have to tell you what has so far been included in the decisions of the Ministry of Education and what has been done. There was, therefore, a decision by which the Ministry of Education complied with the part of those who - I repeat -.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u21	They have court decisions. You can't question it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u22	Let me finish, Mrs. Sacorafa, if you want. Let's see. These judicial decisions have therefore been taken into account, the compliance and recruitment of people who have appealed. As far as those who did not appeal are concerned, there are already the decisions of the Administrative Court of Appeal - two specific ones in 2019 - which are negative as regards the outcome. I repeat that these 2008 tables are no longer in force. I repeat! They had only been extended for one time in 2017-2018. I also repeat - and I take note, Mr Kegeroglu, what you have said - that they are not people who, as I said, remain outside the living process with the educational community. However, we must also take into account the case law or what the courts have already judged. I imagine that's what you'd like us to do. At the same time, and in response to another question you had asked me about what we intend to do about appointments - and that is, if you will, also a prospect for other people who are listening to us all these years and those who have supported the Greek educational system as substitutes and the young graduates - that we have acted, Mr Kegeroglu, that commitment to recruitment, appointments to general education, and we have already proceeded to the general education notice for five thousand and fifty people. At least, the Ministry of Education is progressing steadily to renew the educational staff in the public schools, to a very large extent by restoring the alternates, who will obviously make their application and by mobilisation, and the other criteria will be able to support the Greek public system. That's all for at least now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u24	Mrs. Sacorafa, it's not predictable. I'm not taking part in the debate, but I'm just running it. You have expressed your strong discomfort in a reasonable way, not your personal discomfort, people's discomfort. I think Mr Kegeroglu has given me - I think I am not taking part in the debate - and a solution in terms of what can be done. Mrs. Zacharakis said what she had to say, she'll go to her office, you can be found, you can chat, etc. I will give you thirty seconds of solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, thank you very much. I know the procedure, and I apologize. But I would like to say to Mrs Zacharaki, because he referred to judicial decisions, for the last decision of the Council of State, which is 7 and 29 January 2019, that the appeal of the administration is rejected, publishes his decision on 31-1-2019 when he automatically makes the 682/2016 decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal irrevocably and directly enforceable. If this says something to the Ministry of Education, please change your decision and say that these people must be appointed, finally restored after ten years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u26	I mean the following. This is the decision of the Council of State, even EUR 460, if I am not mistaken, to the two of those who went to the courts for the costs, but clearly we need, in addition to this decision, legislation. That is the main issue. I think, if it were someone from New Democracy here, she would say the same thing. Let's all look at it together and if we can find a solution, find a solution. We move on to the second with number 786/19-9-2019 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To apply Presidential Decree 45 on the professional rights of materials science and technology departments, of the University of Crete and Patras". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. We will therefore expect a review by the Ministry of Education on the previous issue and I think it will be done. I come to the question concerning the Departments of Science and Material Technology, two departments, the University of Crete and the University of Patras. The graduates of these departments, which, of course, had asked for the institutions of the universities, have the Presidential Decree since 2009 on their professional rights. And then we had dealt with two parliamentary interventions in this direction. However, it is not enough for a Presidential Decree on new sections dealing with new specialities, so that graduates can work in an uninterrupted manner either in the private or in the public sector. In other words, we have professional rights, but we do not have a specialty for the IP sector. So we have carried out parliamentary scrutiny, and we have asked for this to be resolved, because as you know, these cannot take part in APAs, for example, in training, they cannot teach the PCAs, where we have lessons to do with materials technology and are the relevant sections for their graduates to teach there. They cannot, however, in the private sector, in CVT, in IKT, in schools called CVTs or anything else to do with the education of the private sector. Since the Institute for Education Policy had actually been consulted to proceed with the Ministry, this opinion came through the Committee for the Integration of Masters in Sectors and has been available to the Ministry for some time now. Therefore, our question concerns the Ministry, whether it will ensure that IT branch specialisation is set up for graduates of Science and Materials and Technology, in which specialisation may also be introduced, or whether it intends to integrate into existing industry as a distinct category of graduates of Materials Departments. These two possibilities have the Ministry and we want you to tell us, Minister, who you are choosing and when this will be done so that the graduates of these departments actually have rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u28	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr Kegeroglu, you have already mentioned in your question the fact that judging professional rights, safeguarding, if you like, and the possibility of independent appointment is something that is also required by specific provisions. You have accepted the same through your question. What does that mean? It means that the Institute of Education Policy, the Institute of Education, is the successor of the Institute of Education and gives an opinion on the integration of higher education graduates in the fields of education following a thorough assessment of the content of the respective curricula. With regard to the graduates of these two departments: the former competent body, i.e. the Educational Institute, has relevant acts - I have all of them here, Mr President, and I submit them in the Minutes - as is Act 14 on 2-6-2010, Act 13 on 26-5-2010, in which it stated that all training courses are not awarded to a first and second assignment in order to cover the compulsory hours of existing industry or of secondary education, so that it is not possible to incorporate them into a training sector. [[At this point, the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Later on, the Institute for Educational Policy, the successor body, at the request of the two departments with a new opinion, where it has already been submitted on 31-7-2017, was again negatively recommended for the inclusion of graduates of these departments in a secondary education sector, as well as - and I say very specifically - they do not have the ability to teach all the courses of the sector first or secondly, or at least all the first-time courses, and secondly, the content of their studies is geared towards the section that is the science of materials. Consequently, - and on the basis of the above-mentioned opinions of the Pedagogical Institute and of the IPE - it is not possible to incorporate these graduates into the existing industry, but it is not possible to create a new branch for these graduates, because according to the excerpt again - I know that I can give a lot of details, but it is important to understand the issue - of the practical board of the IPE, where it is from 26-9-2019, the graduates of the Department of Science and Technology of the University of Crete and of Material Science of the University of Patras can teach firstly the following lessons of the PES - and I come to the second part of Mr Kegeroglou's question - in the field of health, welfare and well-being in the specialty of Sensitive Art in the class "Cosmetology, Materials". That's only two hours. In the field of health, welfare, well-being in hairdressing specialty, the class of the first class "Material Technology", where this is another two hours, and in the field of applied arts, the lesson of all the specialties of the class - this is still two hours - while in the class "Material Technology" they can teach in the total of six hours. The above awards are not presumed to be sufficient reason for the creation of a new sector, as there is a prerequisite for the establishment of a recognised teaching capacity of twenty-one hours and I just told you before that only six hours are given. It is therefore clear from the above opinions from the EPA, which we agree in any case that it is the only one that can be placed on them, that according to the Institute for Educational Policy or a new branch, but that the existing graduates of these sections cannot be integrated into existing branches. We, as Ministry - and the Minister, Niki Kerameos, who has said so many times - intend to do everything in our power to bring about the professional rights of graduates of all higher education departments, but on the basis of the recommendations and assessments of certain authorities, such as the Institute for Education policy, and certainly never, if you like, by way of derogation from them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue of integration into an IP category or the creation of an IP specialisation for materials technology and possibly other related, is a state obligation. It's not just their right, it's also the state's obligation. And it's not just public education. Please! You referred to the PSA weekly programme and referred to six hours a week very well. From there I told you that the teaching of these departments is done in IEK, made in KEK, takes place in a series of schools that leave the public, but which, in order to be able to teach, must have first joined a category. In addition, in professional rights, I tell you that in fact non-inclusion brings other difficulties that have to do with other objects. For example, if one would like to engage in an activity related to the processing and development of environmental studies, which is a relevant object, where a number of branches can have this activity. I say this as an example, saying that integration in a sector is not just a matter of public education. So he may have the right to teach hourly, and this right will only give him the decision to join a sector as an hourly wage. He will be able to teach in private education, he will be able to teach in PAAL and in public and private schools, in IEK, in KEK and see how he will take advantage of his work, in order to finish a school of the Greek public university that is part of the physics schools, in the wider sector in the faculty, I would say, because that is what the Philosophy and the classes are called. I think it is an issue that the two departments are asking for - I will submit their documents and their decisions - he has to find his right to do with decisions of the Ministry of Education, as required. We expect the Minister, if not today, to see it in practice and see how this opinion of the EPP goes ahead, which he says? That it does not consider that a separate category should be established. However, the ‘separate category’ does not exclude them from joining any category. And if they are relevant, they will be able to join in a discreet way, with the will of the state, to participate in the rights of others or not to participate, so that we do not have social automation and say that they are going to eat the work of others. It could be in a distinct way. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u32	Mrs Zacharakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I have responded specifically to the contents of secondary education, and I have, if you like, focused on it in the curriculum of study, particularly the PES, since we had the recent opinion. But it is interesting what you are saying about researching teaching at the JECs and at the IECs, and I think that at present we may propose this research, through the respective Secretariat of Lifelong Learning and New Generation and the respective departments. You are simply aware that as the State Secretary responsible for primary and secondary matters, I have analysed the reasoning of the graduates of these two departments so far. As for the other part, for the CVT and the IEK, this is a piece that I will explore in collaboration with the respective Secretariat-General for Lifelong Learning and New Generation. It is subject to the Minister and I think it will be of interest to place a corresponding section on it. But you agree, I imagine - because it was an issue, which had already been mentioned - that it is important to have the opinion of the Institute for Education Policy. There has been a law since 2013, consolidated in 2014 and it has later been clarified that the agreement of the Institute for Education Policy is positive to exist in the recommendation on integration issues in a sector. However, I repeat, Mr Kegeroglu, that the latter is of interest, especially in the area of post-training, for the IEK and the KEK, and that will be something I will suggest to be investigated at the respective Secretariat-General, after of course in cooperation with the two departments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Last but not least, we will discuss the second question by number 374/14-1-2020 of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Restoration of the Fortress Itzedin and its performance in the local society". The timely question will be answered by Mrs Mendoni. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, with this timely question we seek the quickest restoration of the Fortress Itzedin in Chania and finally its performance in the local society. It is a monument in Greece. It is a symbol of difficult times in modern Greek history, as apart from a fortress of the Ottoman period it has been closely linked to the history of the popular struggles in the 20th century. He became a prisoner and witnessing place for communists and other patriots. As a prison, it worked until 1971, so it finally closed. Sadly, however, the situation of the Fortress Itzedin today is decaying. His risk of destruction is now visible. His architecture and history allow and enforce his use as a monument visit to local and foreign visitors, students, to spread histories, and could also serve as a place of historical and cultural events. It is no coincidence that the building has inspired the world of art. He received a significant projection through films, such as "Days of '36' by Theodoros Angelopoulos in 1972, "Petrina Chronicles" and "Last Sign" by Pantellis Voulgaris, as well as in 2017 for the agonist of the popular movement, Napoleon Sukatzidis, with footage of the "Criminal Kalamiou". However, no maintenance work has been carried out in this historic site. The sea salt is even more burdening on the poor state of the fortress and the extreme weather conditions of last February have caused serious damage. There are already collapses in the roof of the buildings and the erosion of the surfaces of the masonry, which immediately necessitate restoration work. Moreover, the fountain at the entrance of the monument shows signs of abuse. The Fort of Itzedin in 1986 was a historically preserved monument and now falls under the authority of the Service of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Crete. In December 2011, it went into the responsibility of the Real Estate Company, which was incorporated into the supranationality, something that we are of course vertically opposed to. So, Minister, we ask you: what action will you take to get the Icedine Fort out of the superstition and restore it immediately? And when we say directly, we mean fast track procedures, with the responsibility of the state, so that it becomes a historic monument and that it can be given to local society, so that it can be exploited by the people and youth to highlight the history of our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Covenant. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u37	Mr Ephremidis, thank you very much for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify various things about the Itzedin Fortress, which is indeed an important monument, where the historical memory of the last hundred and fifty years is reflected, not only for the Souda and Crete region, but indeed for Greek history. According to the log book kept at the Regional Unity of Chania, the monument belongs to the ownership of the Greek State, since it came to it in 1915. For more than thirty years - you said so too - had been granted in use to the Navy. Eventually in 1971, after the closure of the prisons, he returned to the financial tax office of Chania. In 1975, with a decision by the Prefect of Chania, he was assigned to use within the wall of about sixteen thousand square feet, at the Ministry of National Defence and specifically at the Navy Headquarters, for the country's defence needs. All this at some point has been over and the Ministry of National Defence has released the use of this section of the fortress in 2004 and has been handed over by the Hellenic Navy to the Chania Land Office since 2007. This is his story in outlines. Indeed, in 1986 precisely because of its importance and historical value, it was characterized by the Ministry of Culture as a preserved monument. The monument, the fortress, is managed by the Real Estate Company, ETAD, which, according to Law.4389/2016, is a subsidiary of the Hellenic Company of Participation and Property, known as the Supreme Court. The fortress was never included in the list of real estate transferred from the state property for a very simple reason, because it was never acquired and it never acquired KEK. Therefore, today that we are talking about this monument, the fortress, it does not belong to the superstition. The Real Estate Company still manages it. In 2007 by the State Building Company and then in 2014 by the Real Estate Company, the Municipality of Chania was asked to grant the use of the monument and its promotion. Nothing happened. In the intervening period, that is, from 2015 until today, it has also not gone any further and I know very well that in a question yours and Mr. Pafilis, the previous leadership of the Ministry had replied that the responsibility for restoring the monument has been reserved to the owner, the owner of the monument, who is the Company of Tourist Real Estate. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I would suggest - and, if you like, I can develop it in my dentistry, so that I do not exceed much time - to see which local body may request the concession of the monument, to grant the monument either to the Municipality of Chania or to any of the cultural institutions of the county. Then, through a programmatic cultural development contract - which means the Ministry of Culture, the municipality, if requested and granted the monument, the ETAD and the Region of Crete - to provide the possibilities for the conservation, restoration and promotion of the monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u39	Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully to you. We are also interested in the Communist Party of Greece to see the view of yours, the Ministry of Culture how this whole case can be cleared and move on, that is to say, to pave the way for the effective exploitation of the Fortress Itzedin. First of all, history is the way you mentioned it. I'd say so too, but for a short time I didn't mention it. Indeed, in December 2018 we had tabled the same time-consuming question to the then Minister of Culture, Mrs Zorba. Mrs Zorba roughly gave, she described the situation as you mentioned it, namely that the Itzedian fortress is not included in the transferred properties. Obviously, in order for you to say so, Mrs Zorba has said so, there is some basis. But we want this matter to be finally cleared up. Because at the same time, there is, for example, the Association of Workers of Archaeologists who disputes what you say and Mrs Zorba said. Obviously, there is a new legislation that protects the management of all monuments and cut off any transfer of two thousand thirty-three archaeological sites and monuments to the excess. But that was until 1453 C.E. There is this view, the concept of scientists, who say that this does not apply to monuments until 1830. The Fort Itzedin belongs to this category, like some others. In other words, no others have been excluded until 1830. So what we are asking for is, firstly, that there should be a direct identification of all the monuments or property within the Ministry of Culture on the list of seventy-two thousand real estates and that they should be excluded from the transfer to the excess. Consequently, in there, we're also integrating the Icedine Fort. That is what we want, first of all, to be final and irreversibly clear. From there on, we have followed the proposal you have made. We're holding her. In any case, however, we believe that the Fort Itzedin and, more generally, the monuments should benefit from the exclusive responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, namely the State. This is about funding, monitoring about the maintenance, maintenance of these historical monuments, as well as their exploitation for historical, cultural, activities. I think that the Ijedine Fort is offered with the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and, of course, with the assistance of the local and regional administration, through a programme agreement, to be exploited. This should, in our view, be done immediately. Because you saw that we asked a timely question in 2018. Since then, no mysteries have fallen so far that this fortress can be maintained. You understand that at any time it can collapse. From this point of view, I think that you too should immediately follow it and speed up any procedures. First of all, tell us if what archaeologists say has passed to the superstition. So, finally, we have to make this clear. Secondly, tell us what will happen with its restoration, its maintenance and its exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u40	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u41	Parliamentarians, Ijedine could have been in the superstate, as many other properties passed in 2016 - when I say real estate I mean real estate monuments, archaeological sites and monuments - which in one night and without following the statutory procedure were passed over to the superstate. I repeat that this was in 2016. For Izedine this did not happen for a very simple reason: all the monuments and archaeological sites that had KEK were acquired and had a special code. In Izedine - good luck, I'd say - that didn't happen. Therefore, immovable property, which was not real estate and did not have an ECE, did not pass to the overseas departments. It still belongs to the Real Estate Company. What I'm saying is assumed - I don't know what the Hellenic Archaeologists' Association says, everyone has his opinion - through the documents available to the competent authorities. The Service of New Monuments and Technical Works of Crete is well aware of this. What I'm telling you about the programme agreement is - if you want - the only safe one and what is most likely to raise the amount of money needed to restore this fortress. Generally, the restoration of fortresses is a very long and costly process, much more so when, due to the abandonment of these years, there have been such collapses that have led to the Service of New Monuments and Technical Works of Crete having called for the setting up of a special committee provided for by Law 3028/2002 in order to determine whether at least part of it can be judged to be demolished, precisely because of the great deterioration. Why did I say that? You realize that the cost is too high. I would therefore suggest to you - and the Ministry of Culture is prepared to help the whole process - one of the local bodies, whether it is the municipality, or a cultural club, ask for the concession from the EBRD. The Ministry of Culture, I assure you, as far as it can, will plead for this. From that point on, a programme contract, as provided for in the law between the Contracting Parties, needs to be concluded to make use of studies and research carried out by the relevant departments, in particular the Architects Department of the Polytechnic of Crete and to see how, at the least possible time, realistically, it can build in the framework of this programme a number of studies, first of all, for direct solid measures and then for something more, which will ultimately be done by the body to which the monument will have been given, as an event site, as an exhibition site. There are too many functions that can be served in this building. I would urge you to ask for the concession. I assure you, the Ministry of Culture will be on every step near. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u42	If I may, Minister, let me tell you that we did the support projects at Bloc 15 in Haidari and they cost us 32,000 euros. And now we're sure, no matter how much someone likes it or doesn't like it, there's an emblematic building. I just want to tell you that the Municipality of Chania in 2016-2017 asked the Ministry of National Defence - there is this letter, that is - to do what Mr Syntrakis asks. They usually don't know what's going on with the ETA. But the EBRD don't expect to do the fortress rehabilitation works. And it will be a pity for all of us, who love history and you in particular, but also the buildings, that what Mr. Synchronakis did not just imply, he said. Suddenly at some point, because of non-preservation, one of the most historic fortresses in Greece collapsed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Synthrakis did not say so, I said that the Service of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Crete has already requested the establishment of a special committee set up to decide on specific risks. In this there is no doubt that the fortress is not in good condition. The point is that in order to comply with certain procedures provided for by the laws, let us ask for the concession from the EBRD. The EBRD really won't do anything. I fully agree with you. Let us ask for the concession, and from there on, once a body gets it, we will see together what we can do. Should we push the EBRD too for the concession? Let's do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u44	Good. So Mr. Synthesias will transfer it to self-government there and you will help to find the sums for the restoration. Thank you very much. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-20-S1-commons.u45	With the consent of the House at 19.17 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, January 21, 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: Legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
