ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following. "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 6 February 2020 in connection with the parliamentary scrutiny of Thursday, 6 February 2020, that they will not be answered because of irresponsibility, under No 444/28-1-2020 and 467/4-2-2020, timely questions addressed to the Minister of Justice Mr Konstantinos Tsiras. The topical questions to be discussed are: The Question under number 465/4-2-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Development and Investment Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, the Question No 461/3-220 will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Ioannis Vroutsi, the Question No 468/4-2-20 and the Question No 1943-14-11-2020, the Question under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. We begin with our second question under number 461/3-2-2020 in the first cycle of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "A two (2) missile project for the Hellenic Navy and state of shipyards (NVE SA)". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make it clear at the outset that the Change Movement supports and at the same time requires the continuation of the Elefsina shipyards, because it is a strategic sector of our economy with considerable prospects that are being opened and, of course, calls for all the co-legislative ministries to take the necessary initiatives to ensure that there is a development plan, that the jobs are secure, and, above all, that this production unit in our country. It is well known that the company that manages them has accumulated many debts both to the public and to the workers - around EUR 20,000, 000 - and that is why we are making a triple intervention today. In addition to the question to the Ministry of Defence, we ask both the Minister of Development and the Minister of Labour. I come to the same point that has to do with the Department of Defense. The program that has been running for twelve years to build two fireflies, number 6 and number 7, has fallen into the vortex of this state of the company. The programme shall be valid on the basis of the tripartite agreement of the Ministry of Defence, Administration and Workers until 31 March. However, this deadline is ending without the number 6 that we hoped will be completed and a significant part of the construction remains for number 7. As we still do not know precise time to receive the weapon systems and placement, there are many questions. That is why we are asking you two questions today. You have, Minister, two alternatives, according to our assessment, and if there is no other development on the part of the Ministry of Development. The first alternative is to proceed with a new extension of the contract with a specific timetable and deliverable what was missing from the previous extensions is the deliverable. And second alternative, to submit a comprehensive schedule and timetable for all remaining tasks relating to both number 6 and number 7. I think that you will move in this direction with the same belief that all this is something that has taken a great deal. Homeland needs these two rockets, and that's why you'll hurry up. Of course, if you can tell us what the costs so far have been spent by the public on the implementation of this programme and what the final cost is estimated to be. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The Minister of National Defence, Mr. Nkolaos Panagiotopoulos, will answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I believe that we all have the same interest in the Elefsina shipyards as in the warship-building programmes from the Elefsina Shipyards. We do not want to interrupt the operation of the shipyard, but also of speeches on behalf of the Navy as the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence. The Navy wants its ships. The Navy is the client of the Elefsina shipyard, and the client is currently in the problem that the ships he has commissioned the Elefsina shipyards to be shipped are too late. So, yes, to find a way to continue the operation of the Elefsina shipyard, but in terms of extending the operating time, if we have no assurances about the timetable for the completion of the work, we are not so willing to provide it. That is what I want to make clear. We have two ships, which are too late, but too, too unjustified. We need them, not to explain why we need them now more than ever, they are, I think, proud. And it is therefore necessary, yesterday, if possible, for these ships to be delivered. The number 6 missile is completed at around 95%, i.e. almost ready, but not fully ready. I would like to tell you that the final checks on the acceptability of the vessel's systems are already being carried out in good time, while the tests at sea will also be followed. I mean, it's the test at the port, it's fallen into the water, but the tests are done at the port. There has also been limited trial of firearms number 6 in the Gulf of Elefsina. So the ship's in the water and the final tests are done. But rocket number seven is still delaying. The construction programme has been completed at around 75%, by 3/4. However, there remains a good 25% rate and it is therefore understood that the construction of both firearms will not be completed by 31 March 2020, when the extension given by the Navy expires, by paying extra money. It will therefore or will require the launching of the process for the adoption of a new extension of legislation, or something else will happen, because as you know at the moment, efforts are being made to find an investor for Elefsina shipyards. They are located at a fairly advanced stage, the investor concerned has already spoken and negotiated with the administration of the Elefsina shipyard. But this process is being initiated by the Ministry of Development, with which we are, as you can see, in close contact, since we are concerned. In terms of costs - to say the rest in dentistry - which the Greek State has spent, the total contractual price was about 326,000 000 for the two specific rockets, namely 6 and 7. It applies until the naval naval naval ship is co-ordinated. Further funding of the programme, established by successive legislative arrangements, prolongation of work and additional funding, was subsequently required. All the money from the year 2016, when the Navy took over the funding, and so far amounts to EUR 84,64 million. So the Navy, for four years now, has given the same money to build the ships and, as you can see, has the demand that these ships, the two missiles, be delivered and given to the operational structures of the Navy. The final cost for both ships will depend exactly on the timetable, i.e. the pace of the construction and the cost of the contracts to be completed. So you have the cost so far, the cost paid by the Navy, and the rate of completion of the two missiles. I conclude by saying that the position of the Ministry of Defence's Navy is that we need these two ships, which are essential for the Navy and for the country, to be completed as soon as possible and we will do everything we can to make this possible, but with concrete timetables rather than prolonging and delaying the delays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u6	Minister, we have also heard the words, rumours and announcements from the ministries responsible for finding a strategic investor. What we have not seen is a concrete plan, on the one hand, which has been prepared and, on the other, implemented, in order to ensure this production unit of strategic importance, jobs, and to ensure that our Navy also has a productive sector to rely on in order to modernise and equip it well at all levels. We haven't seen that. But it is not your object and what I would like from you is not to take responsibility for others. I say it in advance, not that there is something specific. Of course, I would like the national defense not to become both the victims of the failure to find an investor or a tool to find an investor. What do I mean? The Ministry of Defence must not be involved in any development initiative, which is free to do so, and it should already have done, as long as the factions were. And that is not just about the current government, of course. Let's not get us wrong. It is mainly about the lost year of the previous years. Four - five years, nothing has happened in this direction. What do we want? We want there to be a specific programme, which will have a deliverable, not only an expiry date, but also a deliverable date. That was missing from the previous one. We want a proposal of your own, so that with an overall timetable, at a specific time, first phase: delivery of rocket number 6. Stage two: completion of delivery and firefighting number 7. It is a prerequisite to receive the missile systems. They haven't been received. What for? Whose responsibility is the non-receipt of the missile systems to be installed? Because the remnant for number 6 is exactly the weapon system. This may be a clear and independent plan from the management of the company, the administration, which led to a deadlock on the company, and of course from the initiatives that the Ministry of Development has to take. What are we talking about? That a new contract with a clear timetable and a clear supply at a certain time has more interference than the Ministry of Defence, typically and only if there is management of papers by the administration and all to be undertaken by the Ministry of Defence in relation to the payment of workers, suppliers, materials and all other necessary actions. There is no case at all - I tell you now - with all that we have as information to resolve the question of the strategic investor first. Live, May, but not 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u7	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u8	I'm afraid so. And the two rockets of this weakness of the Greek state will fall, and of course it is not only the Greek state, but it is also the project, in a sense, that has been to the owners. The owners must understand or rather the managers, because to be the owner you must not owe. So the particular managers of this company have to understand - and they can understand - that they will not have cover for their public debts as individuals. The Greek state can do everything by legislative means. Today there are various amendments, you will see in the course of the debate. He can do everything, and he has to do it in that case. Thank you, Mr President, and I hope that the Minister will be in a way that we can reach agreement, because indeed the objective is common. The strengthening of the defence and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces is, I think, a demand and aim of all at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u9	Mr Kegeroglu, the Minister is one of those who hear and will answer you - he is sure - and he is working together and he is conscientious. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I will try to be brief. The first thing I wanted to say is that the Ministry of National Defence is not involved in the process of finding an investor or of interest. The Ministry of National Defence is interested in ensuring the interests of the Navy and the deterrent power of the Armed Forces, i.e. delivering the two missiles - that is what we are interested in right now - as soon as possible. From there on, yes, we are interested in the question of the continued operation of the Elefsina shipyards. This is certainly linked to an attempt to find an investor. Because you know what? As an element of the domestic defence industry, I think that the Elefsina shipyards can also benefit the Armed Forces, that is to say, to undertake maintenance, construction of certain surface vessels of the Hellenic Navy for the benefit of both the Armed Forces and the Greek economy, of course, and of the local society. However, this situation must first be resolved. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. From there on, as I have said, the decision on whether an extension is given for the continuation of the construction and, of course, if such a new extension is made, it will be very closely linked to a strict timetable for the continuation of work and delivery at least of the number 6 missile, which is almost complete, as I have said, but has not been completed at 100%. Therefore, other solutions of this type that prolong the agony and the Navy, I do not think it is appropriate here to look for them. But, at the same time, I would like to say that I do not share pessimism. On the contrary, I am quite optimistic about finding the final solution to the investor. There has already been a specific proposal to the owner. It's negotiating right now. It is not our job, in other words, to engage in this negotiation, nor to encourage one side or the other to find it. This is a question of the negotiators, I imagine in terms of a free market. Just what I would like to say is that the Navy wants its ships, and the Elefsina Shipyards live to be able to support the Navy in the future, as part of the domestic defence industry. However, it has paid too much money, the delays have been too long and it cannot be encouraged to extend the delays and, as you can see, today rather than ever these two rockets have to fall into the water, they have to be owned by the Navy and at the disposal of the Navy, in order to develop them according to its operational structure. We will do everything we need in this direction in the spirit of finding a solution, but speed up the process and the strict timetable for the deliverable is a key element - and we will agree here - of this programme. The fight to search and find an investor, as I told you, is being launched and accelerating by the Ministry of Development. It's a different matter. I hope that this time, since we have said that there is no longer any desire to prolong this case indefinitely, it can also act as a lever for the negotiators to agree with each other. There's no other way. The Navy must have these ships at its disposal and we are pressing in this direction, because let us not forget - and here I close it - that the Armed Forces and the Navy are neither an employer nor a partner. It is the client and the client must be treated by the store he has undertaken to serve according to the work he has entrusted to him, so that he is satisfied. At the moment we are clearly dealing with an unsatisfactory customer, who has to pay even more so that he does not know when the product he has assigned to be delivered to him. No, that's not how things work. We may have another gordian bond to solve. Many of the gordian ties we have undertaken to resolve this period in this period, but I think that if we do so, we will resolve this Gordian bond and go to the next and so on. The Navy needs these ships and will receive them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much. Before we go to the next question, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the updates of Friday 7 February 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 454/30-1-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Evaluation of the extent of the current airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" in Heraklion in consultation and for the benefit of local society". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The need to accompany and complement works by the new international airport of Kastelios, fair compensation and Technical Adviser to the Municipality of Minos Pedias - Exploiting the "N". Kazantzakis’.’ 3. The question under number 475/4-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pantele lack of a child in Samothraki". 4. The question under number 469/4-2-2020 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Priminal responsibilities of the members of the Government for the continuation of the operation of the Gender HYTA following the publication of polluter studies". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 458/3-2-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Exemption of buses from the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation (OSTH) to the Joint Bus Receipt Fund (CESEL)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Evia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Georgios Marinos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Unforeseen continuation of the operation of LARCO, safeguarding all jobs, workers' rights and the necessary hygiene and security measures". 3. The question under number 470/4-2-2020 is a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilias Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Priminal responsibilities of the members of the Government for the continuation of the operation of the HYTA Gender after the publication of the polluter studies". 4. The 459/3-2-2020 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on "Accelerating procedures for the construction and completion of the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Question No 2770/20-12-2019 by Ms Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Irenis Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on 'Equivalent access for trans-nationals to health services without discrimination'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1338/18-10-2019 by Mr Demetrios Biagis, MP for the Change Movement to the Minister of Health, on "Reconstruction of the country's sanitary regions". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: ‘Restoration of injustice in the payment of the retirement incentive to PPC employees who voluntarily left the company during the period 1-2-2019 to 10-9-2019’. We move to the next, with number 464/4-2-2020, a timely question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Evaluation of the Larissa Flemish Fleet Department". Mr. Red, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, education in the primary sector is considered, but it is also very important for the competitiveness of the primary sector. Sadly, however, education was an unknown word for our farmers. Even worse, it was a unknown word for those who have been ruling over all these years, so providing education to farmers is a very difficult project, which they were doing theoretically public rural schools. One of these, Minister, is just outside Larissa, the Averofios Agricultural School. The previous government raised the question of education very much on the primary sector agenda and you put as a plan the exploitation of the Agricultural School Overseas. If you ask me if it has succeeded, I will tell you 'no'. But he put a little bit of stone. This is evidenced by the resolution of Law 4589/2019, under Article 24, which established the Aberofios Agrimonetary Technology Park, which is subordinate to the University of Thessaly. A committee was also instructed to draw up a conclusion in October 2018 on the progress and development of the Agricultural School Avery. In conclusion, and repeating that for the previous government education was extremely important, putting a stone in the exploitation of the Agricultural School, you ask: What is the will of today's government and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development about the development of the Agricultural School's Boulevard, saying, by setting out a specific timetable for actions of intent? For recently, Mr Vorides from Larissa said that she would look into the matter and a little earlier, Mrs Kerameos said that it is a matter of making use of the Agricultural School's Boulevard. With this question, therefore, they are straightforwardly formulated: 'Yes, we want to make use of it in this way, then'. Specific things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas, will answer. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, Mr President, to thank you for the question you have asked and to agree with you that the issue of training, information and training for farmers during their lives and professional activity, if you would like, is very important particularly in our day, where things change in the primary sector, climate change and its effects affect many crops, since we are talking about open crops for the most part, which means that they are primarily affected by the effects of weather change and environmental conditions. The reality is that, today, terms and concepts like 'farmer agriculture', 'intelligent agriculture', on the one hand, are beginning to appear as a way of dealing with climate change and on the other hand, as a possibility of increasing, improving the competitiveness of farmers. Of course, when we talk about over six hundred, seven hundred thousands of our fellow citizens who are making today's OSCE statements dealing with agriculture and the primary sector, you understand that there are people of different ages and different levels of education. This means that in order to enable all these people to integrate them into the new trends and new ways of cultivating their fields, we should train them. This training can certainly be done through schools and the gallery, but it can also be done during their work, on the job, "on the gob" as it is called. It can also be achieved through a system of agricultural advice, which we want to develop. Unfortunately, the previous government, although it had four years and money European - over 100,000 000 euros - to develop such a system of agricultural advice, which could help to change the cultivation standards in our country and our farmers to meet and adapt to the new conditions, did not do so. On the contrary, we are preparing a new system. This system will be open and will be able to embrace and help all farmers, whatever their age, whether they are sixty or fifty, whether they are thirty years old and any educational level, whether they are a university graduate or a secondary education. That is what we are planning to do, in order to achieve what you are saying, that in the country, unfortunately, in the last few decades, it has fallen as far as the education of farmers is concerned, so that they can grow better and thus be more competitive with regard to the production of their products. On the other hand, as far as the Athens School is concerned, let me say the following: Today it is located on a forty acres southwest of Larissa. It is a building complex of enormous historical importance and an integral part of the cultural heritage of the place of Larissa and, of course, is the result of the legacy and an offer of the national benefactor, George Averov. Today, the farmyard of the Agricultural School has a total surface of about nine hundred acres. There are housed the “DIMITRA” centre of Larissa, responsible for providing training to young farmers under European programmes, and the School of Professionals of Meat of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food providing training to professionals in the meat sector. Let us say that in 1993, by decision of the then Minister of Culture, the buildings of the Aberofio were historically preserved monuments. It is noted that since most of the buildings were built in 1910, there is an urgent need to draw up a programme for direct interventions, reconstructions and renovation in order to repair the buildings and do not pose risks for the school's owners and employees. From there on, what I would like to emphasise and express with complete openness is that the political will of the current Minister for Rural Development and the leadership of our Ministry is to make maximum use of the Aberofio Agricultural School and to be able to provide these services that it must and can offer to the primary sector of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mr. Red, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u16	Mr Secretary-General, as you said, the political will of the Minister is to exploit. I realized that the political will is that it has no plan. He has no plan, Mr Vorides, because he does not know the problems of farmers. I'm afraid so. He's awake, but he doesn't know them. I'm not asking for the use of the Agricultural School Fleet. The farmers of Thessaly are asked for it by the young farmers, by the scientific associations, by the agricultural associations, by the municipality of Larissaion, by the Region of Thessaly. Finally, you are transferring the Minister to deal seriously with the problems. The conclusion of the Aberofio Committee, which was drawn up on the mandate of the previous leadership, says there are concrete proposals. The document of the Ministry of Education - your Ministry of Education - refers to the cooperation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. Who held the first meeting with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, Mr. Undersecretary? Move it to Mr. Voridis. Which leadership held the first meeting in Larissa with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, with the district and the municipality? Organize a conference with the district, the municipality and the University of Thessaly. There are institutional factors such as the Interprofessional Organisation of cotton, which wants to build a cotton museum. There is the Association of Farm Machine Manufacturers. There is the Beekeeping Association of Greece, who wants to build a beekeeping museum without a single charge for the Greek State. I expected today to hear a specific plan, a specific timetable. I didn't demand it. I said, Mr. Undersecretary, we're the ones who put a bit of a liquor. Keep going. Let us show that we are aiming to make use of it for farmers, for the education of farmers, to become an innovation centre. Unfortunately, however, instead of this, I have heard that Mr Voridis, who is not concerned, will generally be taken advantage of. I hope, in the second instance, that I hear specific things, specific intentions, specific policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u18	Of course, Mr Colleagues, I would be very vivid in your criticism of this important issue of yours from your point of view to the current government. You said you put a bit of a liquor. Allow me to have a serious concern about the fact that even a small - small - stone, not a stone, except for a few press releases, which you have published and which I will read to you. First of all, I would like to say that the current leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Minister himself is very much interested. Of course he knows - this proves every day - and he cares, as the entire government and the Prime Minister himself, for the country's primary sector, for farmers and rural women. Because we cannot talk about economic development, food security and social cohesion, especially in rural areas, unless we pay particular attention to the people who live there and fight, fight on their fields to stay there, raise their families, but also ensure the adequacy of agricultural products in our country. I would like to say what the previous government has done, because you have referred to the larger part of your dentistry in what you have done. Indeed, it became a School Creation Workshop - so you called it - since 2018, which after, supposedly, great and serious work, ended up in a single twelve-page podium. I shall put this in the Minutes of the House to be available to Members. Of the twelve pages, the eleven pages are finding out what the Aberofios School is, what it does and what its history is. There are just three pages of the proposals made to you by the various bodies who wanted to make some proposals. There are general proposals, theoretically, that I would say, level, without a plan, without an operational plan and above all without funding - ways and sources of funding - to implement what is stated in these general - I repeat - good intentions, proposals put forward to you by the bodies that have felt the need to correspond with you. The proposal, the conclusions of the group you have set up, I would say that it is included in one paragraph. I shall read to you exactly what is stated in the proposal, the so-called in-depth one, prepared by the working group you set up. ‘As a result, the biggest problem for the development of the Agricultural School's facilities is the finding of funding, which does not result from the proposals submitted’. That is what you say, your committee. And what's the proposal? 12 pages of remarks, three lines of proposal for what you say very important part of the city's history, which needs to be used to become a centre for the innovation and training of farmers. This, according to you, will be done with three lines "within all of the above we appreciate and propose as the only way out to make use of the facilities of the Agricultural School as a management body". Congratulations! That's a great discovery! And I think it's a proposal that covers everything! If, of course, I read the site of the time, the conclusion was finalised in the first quarter of 2019, and even on April 12, 2019, it was written - I read the site "The News of Larissa" - that the management body will be voted on immediately after Easter. It means after Easter 2019 where you were government. Here I read: "The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food..." - you - '...the next step on the roadmap for the development of the Athens School in March will be legislated'. Since then months have passed, four and a half years you have not legislated and now come and say to the current government 'you because you do not go to the management body'. I will tell you that, for our part, the Minister himself has been in contact with the Regional Governor of Thessaly, Mr. Agathos. They are talking about finding real ways of financing, real money, that is, so that we can reconstitute this important - and I agree with you - agricultural school, which can provide important services to the improvement and development of the primary sector not only of Larissa, not only of Thessaly but also of the whole of Greece, because from all over Greece, people can be there and trained. That's what we're gonna do. The next time we have a specific operational plan, which will describe the steps we will take to make use of this very important legacy of our benefactor Averov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. I would ask that we keep a little time because it follows legislative work. We move to 1943/14-11-2019 of the cycle of petitions - questions asked by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Retired children in the paediatric hospitals". Mr Vice-President, you have two minutes at your disposal to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, eighteen months ago I raised to the previous government the question of unaccompanied children in the children's hospitals in Athens, children transported by prosecutors to them in order to undergo the necessary medical examinations, but without there being any medical reason after the examinations remain in them due to the lack of available predictive accommodation structures. These are three categories of children: firstly, those from families who cannot meet their basic needs, secondly, children who have been neglected or abused and, finally, unaccompanied minors. In my question, Mr Xanthos had answered, who told me that following meetings of competent bodies the following was agreed: Directly move children belonging to the category of unaccompanied refugee into appropriate structures. Begin the procedures for the construction of an intermediate accommodation structure of the Ministry of Labour, which is located in Kalamaki at Attica, with a capacity of forty-five seats. I know this structure very well when Mr Loverd's tragic mistake had not been made and they took the welfare part from the Ministry of Health. To promote all necessary legislation to ensure that the project is supervised by the National Centre for Social Solidarity. One-and-a-half year later, in a full-court report - which I will be tabling in the Minutes - of the 'French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-French-Fly's, after research, what is proof of? That fifty - two children continue roaming across the halls of the two children’s hospitals. Just as I'm telling you, and I found out about it with on-the-spot investigation I've been doing. The issue has also been raised by the representatives of the Paedophiliac Society of Greece, who are denouncing serious things - in the absence of time I will present it in the Minutes - and I hope that the complaint of this Paedophiliac Society has arrived in your office. After that, I want specific answers today from a government, which I support and which, at least in its programme, had placed particular emphasis on unaccompanied children: What specific measures will be taken to enable minor children to be accommodated in suitable places? How will you ensure the proper functioning of the two paediatric hospitals? This partly escapes your responsibilities. Are you going to establish suitable structures for the hospitality of these children? I would like clear answers and a tight timetable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-six students and students and four educational sessions from the 2nd Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes you and wishes you good progress! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Old Faliro is suffering today. I hope everything's going well! Mr Kaklamanis will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna Michailidou. Here, Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Kaklamani, for raising this very important issue, which has been very serious in recent weeks. The question you raise with your question concerns the development of the life of minors in hospitals - and therefore this very vulnerable group within the state health mechanism - and the operation of the largest paediatric hospitals in our country. According to the information provided to us the other day - because we requested the most up-to-date information from the Ministry of Health, through the 1st District of Attica - at the end of January we were hosting a total of thirty-eight hospitals in the Attica region - not fifty-two - minor children, but again the issue is very important. In particular, at the "Agia Sophia" Hospital, there are ten unaccompanied children, twelve of whom have already been accepted to some hospitality structures, while the other seven remain in the hospital for health reasons. At the "Save Sunday" hospital there are currently sixteen children. Twelve are expected to move to hosting structures, one is facing serious health problems, while for three is expected an appeal order for their placement in an appropriate hosting framework. Finally, there are three children in the Pentelis Children's Hospital who already have a family environment. However, because this is exactly the case for our Ministry, but as you said quite rightly, the Ministry of Health, what we did was that we took the initiative on the 20th of January of this year, and we organized a working meeting within my office, where we had the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, the prosecutor of minors Stalidou, the commander of the "Agia Sophia" Children's Hospital, and also the officials responsible from my Ministry. The important thing that emerged from this meeting was that in many cases and despite the impact on the hospitals - and in particular the social services of the hospitals - the structures, private and public - seemed to say that there are no places for hosting these thirty-eight children. After that, I searched and asked our structures, the legal entities governed by public law, to tell us how many vacancies there are. So there are thirty-eight children in the hospitals and fifty-six vacant posts. What do we understand? We understand that there is an effective coordination deficit there, which certainly adversely affects children who are in hospitals. That is why we have given a solution which I understand you support. At the moment we are discussing the possibility of taking over by a body of our Ministry, namely the National Centre for Social Solidarity, to have and take the opportunity to refer these children themselves, given that it has a picture and how many children are in hospitals, but also how many empty places there are in structures mainly public. I also note that on 14-6-2019 a memorandum of cooperation between the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health and the National Centre for Social Solidarity had been signed on 14-6-2019 to provide a building for the occupation of our Ministry, in particular the EKA, to the Ministry of Health so that with the taking up of duties by a NGOs - the Polos - in this case - a structure for two years will be set up to accommodate minors with psychosocial problems temporarily hosted in paediatric hospitals. From 20-1-2020 the operation of this structure began. And there have already been four teenage minors from hospitals in this structure. I'll stop here and in my denture, we'll talk about it even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Kaklamani, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u24	Madam Secretary, this meeting you held had been held by the previous ones. I don't believe in meetings. I believe in the effectiveness of the ministers. If you do not take the matter into your hands and continue to hold meetings, we will not find a solution. The previous government meetings listen to who were involved: The Minister of Health, Mrs Fotiou, Mr Mantas - is our colleague, SYRIZA MP, but I do not know in what capacity was the Vice-President of the 1st Minister of Attica and the eternal president and commander of the two hospitals in Athens. And on the second, which took place the next day, all the previous ones I told you again, plus the Attorney of the Ice Bay, Mrs. Demetrius, participated. They have reached the conclusions you have given to me today. And after nineteen months it turns out, on the basis of what you said to me, that nothing had happened at all. Watch out. I don't want to come in six months and ask you a question and tell me about meetings. Because I'll be back in six months. I've been warning you from today. I'll come back. I also have confidence in the government that I support you personally. But I will come back to see if all you have said to me, which is similar to what the previous government decided twenty months ago, and nothing has happened if anything has been done. And I'm telling you something else, which you need to look into, not on your own. This is where the Ministry of Justice is involved. Do you know how many kids were all year round in 2010? Twenty. Do you know how much they got in 2018? Two hundred twenty-one. Midwives in hospitals are the numbers you said. It's from thirty-five to fifty. The rest they leave, can you tell me where they're going, because there aren't any structures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u25	That's not what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u26	I'm asking, based on the numbers I'm telling you. You didn't tell me that. Moreover, it is not the present Government. It's until 2018, I'm telling you. Of the two hundred and twenty children, fifty stay inside. So they've gone a hundred and seventy, probably because there's no reason to be inside. But where are they going? Who's investigating where they're going? Have they gone to structures? Unfortunately, they hadn't gone. And because you told me about the structure you built, do you mean the structure that exists in Kalamaki? That was at least exceptional. He only wanted staffing and he could accommodate forty-five children. Why are we coming back to NGOs? So, is the state incapable of giving protection? I don't understand that. I want you to tell me about the structure in Kalamaki, and why they don't go there, and you commissioned NGOs too. For what? Whole state, don't you have the possibility? And when I first met you, I said something. And I close, Mr President, with that. It's not today's question, but I've been pointing out to you that I'm going to come for that question. Listen to this, too, Mr. Brutsi, for knowing the economics well. When the Ministry of Welfare broke down from the Ministry of Health, I had recorded the property of the Ministry of Welfare, which was the old PICPA. Do you know what we're talking about? There was an economic assessment from the then Ministry of Finance. They estimated the real estate of EUR 3 billion. Leaving the Department of Welfare from the Ministry of Health, he took the property together and took it to the Ministry yours. I then informed the political leadership that I had to do, because that is not what it takes. And I said, pay attention to this property, because if you take advantage of it, the entire predictive part is covered by the revenues of recovery, without entering a single euro from the state corps. But I'm afraid, Mr. Brutsi - and look into it - because there were "filettes" in there. All I have to say is one, and I close, Mr. President: the PIKPA Voulas was on an area of 250 acres, which extends along the sea from "Stars" and beyond. You are now aware of what we are talking about with today's prices. I fear that they have entered - from the past, of course - the government - in the HICP or the Supreme Court. And this incredible property is no longer yours. Look at this because it's worth it. She'll solve Mrs. Michaelidou's hands. A lot of structures will only be able to finance them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Domna Michailidou, you have three minutes to answer Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. A lot of issues you have raised, Mr Kaklamani. I will try to be brief, concise and the better optional in this matter. I don't like having meetings either. I'll be honest. It's my worst meeting. I prefer to deal with matters. But many times to deal with matters, they need to. And since there were neither minutes since the previous meeting of the leadership, nor any primary or secondary legislative decision, which was the result of this meeting, I had hands tied up and could not do anything. So I had to bring all the parties involved to the table to discuss this very important issue. You said eighteen months the previous government has done nothing. From the 20th of January to the present it is ten days. I think there's a little asymmetrical comparison between the two. But I wish you'd be here in six months and you can't tell me the same things. What are we deciding? We are deciding with a certain amount of time how to put this thing right that it should no longer be the social services of hospitals that make these references, but at the heart of one body. The ESA is already doing for minor applicants. He's also doing for the abused kids. So, given what this system has, it can raise it and put the children in hospitals. What we are also changing is the part of the priorityity and vulnerability of these children. And you may know that at the moment there are thirty-eight children. And to stress here that of the two hundred and twenty children in 2018, having reached thirty-eight today, after a year and a half, it is progress, it is something. It is certainly not the twenty that existed in 2010, but from the 200 to thirty-eight, there is a relative progress. What do we want to do? There's the ESA's vulnerability list for minors unaccompanied, who are half of these thirty-eight children. And 100% of the older children are minor candidates. So he'll go on the EKA's vulnerability list above whether he's a child left in a hospital, which is not happening today. And the other thing, which will be done, is to create a protocol and, of course, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, which prioritises and sets out the procedures that we are proposing in the prosecutor's office so that there is a sense of how it brings the children where. Because right now, the prosecutors, and given that they have such a heavy workload, what they are doing, because there is no state procedure or at least a state initiative on how to do it, they just pick up phones. So what are we gonna say? First public structures, then private structures, so that there is also accountability and we know that our structures are not saying no. I was told by the commander of "Saint Sophia" that we send e-mails to public structures, we send private ones too, but they tell us they have no positions. And I say, but how come they don't have any seats? Since I know they have forty-eight seats, they're thirty-eight kids, so ten blanks. So what I have asked is to send me the e-mails of the public structures that they have said they have no posts, to figure out where there is the theater of irrationality over there. So, great caption and horizontal: The solution to this is ascensions and adoptions. It's the first hug. And it's that frame. But until we get to that context, what do we do? We take the references from the hospitals to the EKA, we create a protocol for prosecutors to know how to move on with a state care, but also from their own structures to account, because the state structures will know that there will be children going first, and we upload to the EKA list of minors who are unaccompanied in hospitals, so that structures can accept them. And then we take the structures one. Why, do you know what they're telling me? That children are unable to accept from hospitals the structures financed by AMIF and prioritise the EKKA, because these children are in violation of the law. And what? Is it a solution for the children with the offending behavior not to be in hospitals and to be in hospitals? So we do this, too, but that wants interpersonal relationships. No matter how much we legislate, it won't change anything. He wants interpersonal relationships, telephone "take the children", because in the priorityization of this offspring behavior and hospitality it is best to be in hospitals rather than in hospitals where the externalities they cause are much larger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Structuring it from 24-12-2019 BC. ‘Urgent arrangements to increase the amount of the social dividend for 2019, to extend the out-of-court settlement mechanism and to extend the deadline for the abolition of mortgages and real estate offices (A'212) and other provisions’. We go to the fifth, with number 468/4-2-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "We need measures and actions to support people in the range of autism". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, thank you very much. Who's going to answer my question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Michaelidou, the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam Secretary, this is a very important matter and it is a matter of anxiety - if you like - and parents with children who are in the range of autism or children who are disabled. These children as long as their parents live can take care of them, but the structures are missing from the state, so that these people can know what will happen, know that these children can have an autonomous in practice, or semi-autonomous or state-supported living. Last October, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities - the CRPD sent recommendations to Greece. It highlights shortcomings in special education teachers, delays in the compensation of treatments - special treatment sessions, complicated, bureaucratic process, abused strict conditions for pensioning. In the same letter it also points out that the country should ensure the rapid dehabilisation of disabled children and take effective measures to guarantee their right to care for their parents and to provide children with disabilities with quality, timely intervention and all other health care and education services. At the same time, the committee is concerned about the lack of information on legislative, administrative and financial measures and services to meet these needs. Finally, the Special Committee calls on our country to adopt an integrated national strategy with clear and timely binding measures and sufficient resources to effectively destabilise people with autism and mental backwardness at all levels and to ensure the active involvement of disabled people through their representative organisations in the preparation of autonomous living strategies and programmes, which will provide accessible Community services at local level. Given that the question of providing services for autonomous and semi-autonomous living for people with autism and mental backwardness is a fundamental human right and since in recent months there has been a stagnation in the implementation of the Joint Ministerial Decision on the Establishment and Operation of Supported Violence Housing and because it is also a request from citizens who have come to us, I would like to ask you what measures you will really take to be - if you want - legal and the contract that we have signed with the UN on our obligations and what measures you will take to destabilise people with autism and mental backwardness, and in particular on the Supported Violation Bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Arseni. Let me explain some of the key elements of our Ministry for one of the greatest challenges of the decade in the field of welfare and disability. Our Ministry has already implemented several relevant pilot actions in the Annex of Leverages of the Centre for Social Welfare of Western Greece and in the Annex of the Centre for Social Welfare of Attica. In the context of these actions, those resident in these structures are expected to become an insurance support structure or a family-type structure or to return to their family while supporting the state. The policy of the Ministry in this area includes the development of accommodation facilities for disabled people, the development of a pilot project for professional assumptions, the development of a short-term disability infrastructure, the creation of a mobile support unit for families with disabilities - either biological or positive - the promotion of creative employment centres and the creation of day centres for disabled people. These measures, combined with the full implementation of the legislative framework for the adoption and sponsorship, form a new framework for the care and living of children with disabilities. The Ministry takes note of the final remarks, as you have rightly said, made by the United Nations Committee on Human Rights with Disabilities. Specific policies and actions related to the implementation of the dematerialisation programme are in the direction of adopting these proposals. Our Ministry, in cooperation with the European Commission's Directorate-General for Structural Reform, but also with technical support from the EASPD, forms the strategy and action plan with specific axes for the implementation of the decoupling programme. We are in constant consultation with these bodies, and we have just held a working meeting with all the bodies and representatives from a very wide range of bodies, public-law legal entities and private-law bodies to design the national strategy for decoupling. I do not agree with you that there is a stagnation in the creation and reinforcement of Supported Living Housing. On the contrary, we see as a ministry - and we are trying to act actively in this direction - a particular dynamic for the establishment and functioning of new PSFs. In particular, since July 2019, we have approved twelve applications for feasibility for the establishment and operation of a CSR. The Functioning of Supported Living Housing Hits is part of the dehabilization policy, and we therefore support it, by assessing and finding out what can go even further ahead with the functioning of these structures. However, decoupling is also supported by the family environment. There we are strengthening the CSR - LEADER, a programme financed by both the family and working life harmonisation programme and the EBRD, as well as the resources of the Ministry of Interior. Especially for children with autism now, according to information provided by the Ministry of Health yesterday, the development of four autism boards and the extension of the services provided by the existing day-ahead centres are in operation, with the aim of providing timely intervention for children of pre-school age who suffer from autism. Here too, I should like to point out that twelve centres are already operating in this direction. In any case, I think that we agree that decoupling is a process which not only concerns the beneficiaries themselves, concerns their parents, their families, workers in private or public law and, in the end, concerns us all. But it requires a change of attitudes that are deeply rooted in the directly involved, but also a radical review of the way in which a person is perceived, even in a serious form of disability, in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes at your disposal too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I'm glad you announce new Supporting Houses. I would like you to be a little more specific about what will be dynamic and what timetable will be implemented. You said it was twelve that you had started since July. Please tell us very much, until when parents can expect these roofs to be active and for how many children. Now there is the part of the question you have not answered, and it is about the shortcomings of specialist educationers - I know that it escapes your competence, but it is in general supervision - the delays in the compensation of special education treatments, the simplification of the bureaucratic procedure and the abusive strict conditions for pensions. I understand it's not everything in your power, but some of it is. As far as the rest is concerned, I am sure that they are part of the wider framework of your policies and you will cooperate on these matters with the relevant ministries. I would therefore like to see the clear timetables for the implementation of the recommendations of the CRPD Committee, the UN Convention on the Rights of LEADs, but also as regards the parents' requests for the shortcomings and difficulties of having teachers who help their children, to be able to access the financial resources and pensions involved in disability, but also to the treatments. We need to see, in general, the difficulties they face every time they are having to deal with all of this with the public, with contradictory views, with a very difficult bureaucratic process and often as we have discussed before, with agencies which have not been informed about the interpretation of the laws, and citizens have to fight for self-evident and often lose the battle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much. Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u38	Thank you again. With regard to the part of how they are adopted and what is happening with the Supported Living Housing Housings, yes, we have had twelve approvals of the Housing Housing Reports from July to today. The procedure is: First they come to the Ministry, so that the feasibility study is approved. Afterwards, this approval from the Ministry operates as a good presumption for the candidate holder of the Supported Living Steam to request funding. Most, empirically, the funding requested by this candidate is ESDP funding. So he comes with our approval, goes for the funding of the NSRF, and after he takes the funding of the NSRF and builds his structure, he has control over the region. Then they can enter and enter the SPA, be they children, be they elderly people, be they citizens in general with disabilities and receive either EUR 40, or EUR 70, respectively the level of disability financing from the State. So this is the Timeline of how this goes as a process. As you know, the PSOs can have up to nine people, and that is precisely the purpose of semi-autonomous and supported living. It is a small structure, which simulates a family environment and is not a structure founded where there are many children. So we're talking about nine people on each SGS, the timetable and the procedures I described. With regard to the part of special treatment, you will allow me to take a step back, because I am not the relevant Ministry, and I do not want to say something that is either very optimistic and will not be certified, or it is something more behind what the Ministry of Education is doing, so I will explain a situation which is not true. On the part of the pensions, yes, we are in agreement and in very good communication with my Minister, because we understand that there is a gap in disability pensions, for which we will shortly have legislative intervention, so that we can try to correct the injustice - if you want - which is often higher than those of the disabled pensions and some of our fellow citizens who have already submitted their insurance contributions, then they receive an invalidity pension, which is lower than the benefit paid to him by the Ministry of Welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. The fourth question under number 465/4-2-2020 will be discussed in the context of the second question by the Prime Minister of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: ‘The future of the Elefsina shipyard and the six hundred workers to them after 31 March 2020.’ Here, Mr. Biagi, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for responding to our question. We as a Change Movement consider the continuation of the Elefsina shipyards to be very important. In this context and given the lack of a specific policy in previous years with the previous government, we are actually coming through our question today to hear about the vision and strategy that your Government and your Ministry have. In this context, then, I will just read out my question and reserve it after your position - which I think will be in a positive direction - to be placed. The shipbuilding industry can be strategically important for the recovery of the national economy, both because of its important synergy with Greek seagoing shipping, and because of the added value it can offer to the Hellenic Navy. Unfortunately, in recent years, the viability of the shipbuilding industry has been almost exclusively intertwined and distorted by the implementation of projects for the Navy. In particular for Elefsina Shipyards, on 31 March 2020, the Minister, Mr Naval tripartite agreement, the company ‘Elepsina S.A.’ and shipyard workers to complete torpedoes 6 and 7 ratified by Article 32 of Law No.4361/2016 and extended by Article 216 of Law No.4335/2019. In view of the apparent deadlock that the Elefsina shipyards can find, and by extension, the two specialised workers on them, we ask, Mr Minister, firstly, whether there is a service plan to deal with the critical situation and ensure the immediate capital needed and the smooth long-term funding for the smooth operation of the Elefsina shipyard after 31 March and, secondly, what are the main priorities of a national strategic plan for the overall resolution of the shipbuilding sector, in which the viability of the Elefsina shipyards will be ensured. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u41	You're welcome. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u42	First of all, Mr. Colleague, welcome! This is the first time we have been talking in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u43	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u44	Of course it is my duty to come and answer your question. I must tell you that although it was a difficult week for me in my relationship with KINAL, what you have done today is very nice, namely that three Members have asked timely questions about Elefsinos shipyards to three different ministers, so that we can provide full information, global and parliamentary. It was smart and nice. So I think we will have a constructive debate. First of all, what you said in your question was correct. And our belief is that the time has come for a country that has come out of crisis and we all say that we want it to be more investment-friendly and can claim a better role in the 21st century, the shipbuilding industry, which had fallen for various reasons in a huge decline, to regain. So I am telling you first, because I have carefully followed the previous debate between Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Panagiotopoulos to whom Mr Kegeroglou said that the Ministry of Development must find a solution, that I accept it and that what he said is correct. I tell you that we are working too hard to find a solution to the line, to the model used by the previous SYRIZA government and finally completed on our own government, resolution - you used the right word - of the Syrian shipyards. I would like to say a few things to know where we are about Elefsina, since we have agreed that we too are working to keep the yard running, to keep jobs and to blossom the shipyard. We're on the same boat from the same side. However, we need to know what we are talking about, what the situation we are talking about today is. The Elefsinos shipyard, up to a few weeks ago - according to my last briefing, because these figures are changing - had total obligations of EUR 261,000,000! We're talking about 261,000 euros! These 261,000 euros do not include the requirements of the Navy that may reach 100,000 euros. I say 'possibly' because they have not been clearly defined. So we could potentially speak of a debt of EUR 300,000 to EUR 350,000, 000 to the total. So it's a very problematic business. Today, therefore, the shipyards can and will operate in part because the Navy pays 70% of the employees' pay, to receive the two torpedoes, which Mr Panagiotopoulos spoke about before Mr Kegeroglou and which should have been handed over for a very long time, but have not been delivered yet. Let me tell you to know that one torpedo has 91.8% integration rate and the second 75.2%. What does that mean? We have a company, a shipyard, which we agree should be maintained and - be careful - not to be in liquidation, but rather to be reorganised in operation, that is to say, that the jobs that I have told you do not lose, but that it has these debts, which have obligations towards the Navy, but which also has advantages. What advantages? An amazing job, workers who know their job well and a powerful contract with the Navy. For our plan further and the involvement of the ONEX company - because I told you that we are going to make use of the experience of Syros and what happened there about Elefsinos Shipyards - I will speak to you in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Biagi, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u46	Minister, the Change Movement is clear as far as its positions and philosophy are concerned. We consider it necessary and support with all our powers the operation of the Elefsina shipyard, but also, in general, a strategy, a philosophy, which supports the shipbuilding area, namely the whole. In this direction, we believe that a production unit such as Elefsina, with the know-how of six hundred employees, with their knowledge, can offer the highest possible levels of civil Navy and the local job-creating society as well as the seaships. In this sense we see the continuation of this production unit, with what this may mean. What do I mean? We have already seen in the position of the Minister of National Defence his anxiety at the completion of this plan concerning the two missiles. Inside, then, the Minister himself and in conjunction with my question, there has been a dead end since March. In this context and through your philosophy, how do you see it going on? Are you prepared to continue with any investor you want to speak, after seeing his prospect and proposal, not to put pressure on the target we have for the missiles and the cooperation of these shipyards with the Navy? One is that. And we're clearing it up. In no case should we, in our view, take any attempts to put pressure on the investor to make a programme of cooperation with the Navy. In our view, that is the most important thing. On the other hand, is it our intention to continue this cooperation? After the 20th of March when this contract ends, how will these yards continue to operate? How will we continue to finance this effort? How will we continue to keep these six hundred people alive who in fact have knowings that we all accept? In that sense, in the investor's logic, tomorrow will we also use the workers to pressure any investor? I will conclude by saying and waiting for you, after the four and a half years that we have not actually seen a certain policy from the previous government in this regard, to tell us what your plan for the shipyard is, what the plan for the shipyards in question is, how the shipyards will be financed after the end of March, and, lastly, if, after the end of this contract, you are prepared for a limited and hard-lived extension of this cooperation and how you see the time running. They're fighting six hundred workers watching us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis will answer. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u48	First of all, I would like to say what the previous government has done. We have Members present and we know what we're talking about. On 21 January 2019, on a governmental basis Mr Tsipras, the Bank Alpha, which is the main creditor, received the first non-binding bids for Elefsina shipyards through the company ‘KPMG’. The procedure was completed on 2 May 2019 as barren. In other words, no investor who has finally provided money - a proof of funds, as they are said - who wants to get these yards in the current situation, in which they find themselves, despite the proposals to haircut both from the banks and from the insurance funds in terms of surcharges and interest, but also from the tax debts. Note: I spoke before about a debt that may exceed EUR 300 million, the bank with KPMG came up with a proposal, I say, roughly - at 100 million, a significant reduction in the debt of nearly 200 million - there was no one who came to give money to continue this shipyard. So we figure out what we're talking about. We're not talking about anything that's killing the planet for who's getting it. Let's go to our plan. I told you that we wanted to take advantage of the interest of the EMU company. Why do we say that? Because the previous government has used this company in the Syros shipyards, and I see this colleague from the Cyclades, who knows it. When we received governance, this process was stuck almost, but with very close cooperation with both the company and the employees, we solved the problems that had arisen. You know that the yard was permanently transferred to EMU in November. He's had amazing results in Syros. In the first year of operation under the 'EMCDDA', it had a turnover of about EUR 22 million, in the second year it exceeded EUR 35 million and not only did it not lose jobs, but the employees in Syros increased and the orders are continuous. Today we are talking - and today we have the Israeli shipyards, which are working with the Syrian shipyards and the 'ONX' for joint shipyards, and today we have seventy Greek companies who are participating in cooperation today in Syros on how to join forces for the rise of the shipbuilding industry in Greece. So what you're saying as an agony, getting the shipyard industry started, we've already started it, it's started and it's done. And to tell the whole thing, so that it doesn't appear that I'm in the fight for the past's efforts - I don't want to do what they did to me with the health and the insecure who my own law presented him as theirs - to say that SYRIZA had contributed, even though it was stuck and they know it, and the owners said it and I don't have to come back now. In any case, there is an intergovernmental cooperation in this. The same investor, EMU, has expressed its interest in the same procedure, i.e. through legal proceedings and through the judicial decision, in the final transfer of the yard to EMU under the conditions to be judged by the court and the proposals made by all creditors to the court. Note now: This issue was raised as an interesting issue for Greece by the Prime Minister of Greece to President Trump at our meeting at the White House in the United States at the beginning of January, my counterpart, Mr Wilbur Ross, was appointed as the one to deal with this issue and there is already a lively American interest by the US government in concluding this agreement. I don't want to say more details now because it's good for them to be announced when they close. However, I am telling you that the interest of the US government in doing so is great. However, I would like to say that, in order to understand what you are saying to me and what I am saying to you, the Elefsis shipyards do not belong to the public. I can't make a competition. They don't belong to me. Elefsinas also belongs today to a private person who owes it. To start the process, if we go to the private sector for its debts, the shipyards are closed, workers are made redundant. So we do not have that as the first option, because we have agreed that we want jobs to be maintained. So how does the process start? Mr Tavoularis, the current owner, who will either find money to pay his debts and move the shipyards under Mr Tavoularis, and if he finds his own, he will well define or, if he does not, he will have to follow the government plan which is the same - I repeat - with Syria, that is to say, the transfer of the shares of the yard to an intermediate company, which, together with the creditors, will go to court, the decision will come out and will continue with the operation under the 'EMUF' until the final transfer. Let me tell you that this plan, to start, must be signed by Mr. Tavoularis. If Mr Tavoularis does not sign up - I say this to all of us here in consultation - the shipyards will be shut down and the workers will lose their jobs. Because the possibility of constantly renewing the contracts of the Hellenic Navy and of paying the state to keep the shipyards shut or unlocked, without the Navy taking the torpedoes it wants on time, just to tell all of us how much we love the shipyards, there is no one. I want to be clear about that. Is there a case of extension in which case? If the implementation of a plan began, and we could guarantee to the Navy that from now on we could trust a timeline and receive his ships. But waiting for the Navy in the adventurous, getting ships, not taking them, needing the ships, paying them, and the shipyards pretending to work, this dear colleague, cannot go on and I want it to be clear. However, since Mr Tavoularis signs and follows the Syros model and we are going to what I have said to you, we are working very intensively to move the yards into an intermediate operation, as took place in Syros, and with a final transfer. Now let me just say one last thing you're interested in. I am sorry, Mr President, for the time I take, but it is important for the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u49	It's very interesting, that's why I'm leaving you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u50	Irrespective of the government's terms to the investor concerned, it is that in this interim operation it should put money, the first to pay employees' wages, about 18 million today - these must be paid immediately, in the interim period, before the transfer, in order for the workers to take their money and will remain in the final transfer, as was done in Syros, to get their allowances. Because they have to take more money then - and the investor put enough money - we calculate about 15 million - so that the Elefsina shipyards can complete the two torpedoes of the Hellenic Navy, as they have committed. You know that they have contract for two others, if it is consistent with their obligations, and that is another asset of the shipyard. But first, the Navy needs to know that he'll take his torpedoes ready, worthwhile, as our Navy needs for reasons that you know and understand. I would therefore like to conclude by congratulating Mr Tavoularis: if Mr Tavoularis signs today, tomorrow, we will be taking the negotiations with the company 'ONEX', with the support of the Greek Government and the successful example of Syros, to make an agreement that will benefit from judicial approval and protection and which will ensure the continuity of the operation of the shipyards, with the payment of employees and the satisfaction of the order of the Hellenic Navy and then have a bright future of the shipyards - because that is what I want to close. All we are saying now is the management of a mixed situation: debts, obligations and courts. This is not how we see the future of the shipbuilding industry and ship repairs in Greece. Greece, with the example of Syros, has demonstrated that it can be competitive. And, you know, it's a pity: only Greek shipowners spend the year worldwide for ship repair about $3 billion. Of these 3 billion in Greece do not even come the 170 million. So let's go with Elefsina, like Syros, to compete with the other Mediterranean shipyards on ship repair. Elefsinos shipyards will not rely on state contracts, will not rely on the Navy. They will be based on the private market, which has a lot of scope and which you have rightly said - the shipyard workers have a great deal of know-how, a good reputation and now everyone is working competitively. Because, you know, for many decades - and we all understand that - we too have our responsibilities as a people as a whole for the fact that all our shipyards have gone bankrupt. We must always have in mind that it is a competitive industry. Shipyards also exist in Croatia, shipyards exist in both Turkey and Bulgaria, shipyards exist in Romania. We must therefore all know that we are working in a competitive environment and we must provide a competitive product in terms of quality and cost. But, I repeat, the great success of the Syros shipyard proves that we can do that. As we did in Syros, we're going to do it in Elefsina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u51	The next question to be discussed is the same, but it is addressed to the Ministry of Labour. This is the second question, number 462/4-2-2020, on the second question from the Member of Parliament, of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘The future of Elefsina Shipyards and the six hundred workers to them after 31 March 2020.’ Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes at your disposal. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the issue we are talking about, we are examining and being raised today in this House with three questions - the third is my own - from the Change Movement and the answers that have been given so far is a major issue which concerns the national economy, with what this includes. It is not just about development, it is not just about national defence, it is not just about workers. This is a major issue concerning the national economy. The framework in which I ask, Mr President, the Minister is concerned solely with the workers. Not to say more, there's no reason, there's been a lot of noise. The question, then, is that the company "Navy and Industrial Enterprises Elefsina S.A." with the agreement and contract made with the Hellenic Navy and with the employees and which has been ratified owes about 18 million workers. Some interesting views have now been heard by the Minister of Development, very important, and there is no question of the debts. There is one major issue: If the whole process is not done, what is being done and how it is ensured for workers in relation to what they are due, but also how it is ensured and how the Greek public is exploited, and the government in this regard, the know-how and the huge experience these people have, which is an added capital in relation to the entire investment activity, as well as to the country. There is a major issue of vital capital assets that concerns workers. I also ask, Minister, what initiatives will the government take to ensure that the six hundred workers are paid and that their jobs and contracts are ensured. I live in these and in my dentext I may mention some things, since I hear your prototype. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis answered his piece and gave answers on many issues. You will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u54	Mr Mulkiotis, I am pleased that the questions on the part of the Change Movement have been raised at the same time in the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Defence and successively one question after another, after the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Development and the Minister of Labour, on the same crucial issue. It is perhaps the first time, however, that the ministers can speak in terms of optimism and hope before the national Parliament. I say this because, as you have heard just before the Minister for Development, procedures have been launched for Elefsina as well. And I'm explaining. The future - and I want to say this - of the Elefsina shipyards in terms of their economic prospects and the positions of the workers is guided and guided by what happened in Syros, the shipyard of Neorio. At the Syros Neo right now, when it comes to four hundred fifty jobs, which were in danger of being lost - they had already lost - people found jobs. And not only that, but there is demand for work in the Syros shipyard, and unfortunately there are no qualified persons to serve them. At the moment in the Syros Neorio, through the private initiative, you see this phenomenon - I was in Syros the other day - that there should be arrow ships, that is, outside to get them to make repairs - that was never there - while at the same time the company's turnover in two years has increased by over 20%. What was the magic that happened and changed things? Let's go and visit as Minister I've seen on several occasions the workers in New York in Syros, who are satisfied with the work they have, the wages they have and the fact that we have a shipyard that no longer owes insurance contributions - it does not pay taxes. What happened was a determination that was made by a company to get in to redeem the place, to do its job properly, and by a healthy trade union movement - I want to say this - workers who said 'first of all our work and our interest and then the micro-participatory purposes'. This last one was undermining the entire ship repair zone from Syros to Elefsina and Perama over time. Small-party purposes that undermined the interests of the workers. And so, in Syros today, four hundred fifty workers not only have a job, not only did they lose jobs, are paid very well. And if anyone sees the syndicate of the ship repair zone and meets them, ladies and gentlemen of all parties, they will see an enormous satisfaction. So, in my prototype, I say to you: the solution for six hundred workers and the government's position is not to lose a single job in Elefsina. This issue cannot be resolved with the existing pathogen. The Ministry of Development has launched the prospect of answering the evolution of the Elefsina shipyard and paying the EUR 18 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, firstly because it was a specific question, and there is something that was not right - you know, administratively, no issues - as you spoke of a 'healthy trade union movement', let us at least leave that behind. Because it is very serious, and in any case we are talking another way today, let us judge this trade union movement, solve its problems as it wants and let it not be said in this House. As you say, I do not think you contribute to something. In any case, one issue is the major. There are shipyards, there are jobs, there is a particular job. This is the situation, therefore, according to the answers that have so far been given by both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Development, and indeed there is a specific procedure, but there is nothing given at the moment. There'll be and we'll wait. This uncertainty in relation to the whole issue is what concerns us. We will not be talking about what existed in previous years if there was a tide in the whole process involving the Elefsina shipyards. Indeed, there was a state of perfection. Today the government takes political decisions, you have to tell the House too, indicate what the problem is, and how the procedure is going to be. Minister for Labour, it cannot, as Mr Georgiadis said, be said - and was indeed mentioned at a conference last month on shipping and ship repair - that Greek shipowners should invest and speak abroad with billions of euros and ignore our country. Nor can, Minister, in 2006, the various repair work in our country touched 600m euros and today is to reach 100m euros and if they are barely there. But here's the big deal. When we are talking to the shipowners too, because we are politicising, we can put these issues on the table: What will happen next day, how do we find solutions and why, gentlemen, you can do whatever you do outside and not within our country, so that currency is within the country, that there is the know-how to exploit and move and the facilities have another goodwill, and in any case, to have a smooth situation. And they are the victims, because they are indeed victims of the whole process. We as a Change Movement, Mr Ministers, cannot accept, regardless of any problems that existed until yesterday, the 'labourisation' - let me have this friendly expression, although I do not like it and use it in introductorys - as well as in the defence industry and in the missiles - that there should be 'working' for the whole issue and for the workers. We can't put the workers in this game. The workers have offered, the workers have put their hands on this process, they have sacrificed rights and obligations, they have suffered the crisis that exists. They are six hundred in number and there are great problems and great debts. We must look at these, and you must, Minister, take them into account. And the major issue is if it does not work out, are we leaving this business, this area of reservoir? And if the procedure does not go ahead, can the Ministry make a political decision? Can we say that, given the public debts and are large amounts of money - it can make use of these Greek public debts and initiate another procedure? Has he seen another model? He's simulated, so let me say something else? Let's not be like Syros. To be something different that can give the trigger to go ahead with a process. Don't get to the end, and we're all disappointed, because disappointment will be total. It won't be a government matter. It will concern everyone, it will be a problem for this country for any negative development in this area. Mr President-in-Office, I think it can be politically resolved. With a political decision we can have not deadline 31 March, but we can continue with a process that benefits everyone and the National Defence. Because I can't say that with 92% preparedness, a rocket can cost us 8% and we can't build a missile for the National Defense. It wants to address the issue in a responsible manner, and no solutions can be given so that an unfinishedness of this kind can be addressed. There should therefore be a continuation of operation, a continuation in all areas of benefit, both in the state and in the competitiveness of the company and abroad, as well as in the national defence and workers. And in any case, I would like to hear your answer here or your position. And tell us whether energy has been made to the Greek shipowners in relation to what the Minister said - and I fully agree that we have read it and made it public - that is, what they do with the logic of investment and aid in the country that perhaps went out of a difficult economic period and go to another day. Do they have a hand or don't they? And in any case, Minister of Development, since you're here and allow me, you back them up, too. You know how it can politically be done. And let's all come to our country to make the investment to give life and smile. 'Cause now we don't smile. We're thinking about what's going to happen tomorrow. And we don't just talk like that to talk. It is of major importance - I think all the wings know - that this area with its know-how and with everything else background has to be exploited and not to go to the unclaimed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Brutsis, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry and to answer Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u58	Mr Mulkiotis, the sensitivity you show to the six hundred workers and the prospect of the Elefsina shipyards I think you understand that it is the same for us. It is true that the common place is to find a solution to keep the six hundred jobs - and not only to increase - but, secondly, to pay the workers well, and thirdly to restore the fleet of the shipowners again to the Greek shipyards, the Greek hands. I have just spoken on behalf of what you said about the shipowners, for what I call patriotic armaments. You asked just before why Greek shipowners don't come to build their ships here. The answer I think has been given. Look, it's time we couldn't hide behind our finger, ladies and gentlemen. If we do not see the passions of the Greek economy, the function at all levels, we cannot find the answer for the future. Indeed, the shipowners did not come to Greece. Let's see what happened. There were conquests on ships that were built. Trade unions entered and banned the smooth operation and repair of ships, with debts running and time limits running in construction processes. So after one, two, three, everyone left Greece. As if they deliberately undermined the national economy some small-scale trade union organizations!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u59	That's what Golden Dawn said! Rabbit said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Katatotis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u61	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u62	That's what Golden Dawn said! Rabbit said it! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u63	Please. You're not addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u64	And then the answer was given by Syros. Take care of what's going on in Syros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u65	It's your fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u66	I'm not talking about the workers. I'm talking about some small groups. Employees want a job. Employees want their reward. Employees want to be privatized well. Here's what happened in Syros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u67	It's your fault. It's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u68	In Syros shipowners returned their ships to Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u69	It's your fault. It's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Mulkiotis, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u71	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Mulkiotis, no apologies. You're interrupting. You don't want to hear the answer now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Mulkiotis, please. He didn't interrupt you. People draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u74	In Syros, the shipowners are back. Over a hundred and twenty ships of shipowners are located in Syros to make repairs to a shipyard, which gives them guarantees that the ship will enter, the ship will work, the ship will meet its requirements, whether there will be changes to the issues it has in due course, in the environment in which the contract has been awarded, the contract and the ship will be implemented. This was done in Syros, that is, the self-evident one. That is to say, in Syros today, we have a normal shipyard, without those workers who undermined its operation. Workers and unions today and business together, hand - hand. The employees are paid well, the employees have prevented exhortations from Athens, which were said to them "Become occupied, so for the occupation", and the trade union movement of Syros today represents four hundred fifty workers, all of whom are happy to go to work, we have seen them, we have embraced them, they go along with the operation, they feel happy because they go and find work, they are happy because they are also watching dozens of ships waiting outside the shipyard. The same vision we have for Elefsina and our plan developed just before the Minister of Development. We'll make the same plan. Of course, Elefsina's not a state-run business, it belongs to Mr. Tavoularis. If Mr Tavoularis does not sign up, unfortunately he cannot be granted by the Greek State or a single euro to the shipyard, because it is a state grant and that is anti-institutional, abnormal. We can't do that. So what do we do as a Greek state? On SYRIZA the theme of Neorio began, we said it before. We're not petty, gentlemen of SYRIZA. We took the dog from where you left her and moved on. We now have the right path to follow. So this is the vision for us, it is the implementation of a project by the Ministry of Development, which will give a solution, equivalent to that of the Syros Youth of Syros, and Elefsina. There is one company concerned, 'ONEX'. Unfortunately, the competition, held on SYRIZA, was fruitless. There was no one who was interested in taking Elefsina and now we are in the final straight, that Mr Tavoularis should sign and follow the same procedure. The six hundred workers will become a thousand six hundred if this plan is implemented and again we will see thousands of Greek shipowners, and not just return to Greece. All I will tell you, by closing down, is that what I have collected through the discussions with the workers in the Syros New Year is that the messages that go through Turkey and Romania are very opposite to the level of emotion. They regret the opening of the Syros Neo, because they are now returning the ships back and the work in Turkey is being reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. We will continue with the first under number 463/4-2-2020 in the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening and upgrading of the OAS Institution Professional Schools (OSA)". Mr. Triantafylide, you have two minutes at your disposal and because you're also a match I want a cool.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u76	Minister, the concern of the Ministry of Labour is to tackle the nightmare of unemployment. In time, in the years of the memorials, he hit the ceiling at 28%, delivered in July 2019 to 18%, and it is a concern of every minister, in so far as he wants to confront and give creative prospects to every young child, to every unemployed, long-term unemployed, to find a job and to meet the basic living needs of his and his family, as well as the objective of improving income. Medal, a tool, over time established in the consciousness of Greek citizens and the productive economy is the institution of the OAED, the Labour Force Agency. We say it because it suits our argument? No, it is a long-term successful institution, which has been historically close to the sixty-eight years since 1952, and on the basis of research, which was carried out and announced in November 2015, half of the graduates of the OAED apprenticeship schools over the last three years, 2011-2014 - I note, Minister, for the good work they have - work, while 50% of these have found work in less than six months. In other words, one in the two that passed through apprenticeship schools, and when we say "studies of apprenticeship" we mean cooking, confectionery, electricians, car engineers, coolers, etc., found a job. I am tabling this in the Minutes, so that there is an explicit record of evaluation, which is always to be done, because the institutions are not judged by their objectives and their announcements but by the results. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We keep the data for one out of two graduates who have found work, for two years of learning and for two years of practice, and this association, on the one hand, of learning and, on the other hand, for two years of practice, has given this comparative advantage to the OAED. Is that all this research is saying? It's not just that research. It is said by the social partners, and in particular by GSEE and GSEE, who consider that, as they developed in a workshop on learning at the workplace on December 4, 2019, in Athens, the most reliable and effective apprenticeship system is OAED. This is because it has a long time of practice, two years, it is regulated by contracts of employment, tested and companies can invest in it to directly, securely, future workers who will button the needs of their business. We therefore have two elements which I have submitted to you, and I think they are mutually acceptable. The question is, Minister, first of all, why the Ministry of Education stated lack of competence, Mrs Kerameos, and for this reason the timely question was addressed to you and not to the Ministry of Education, but to the Ministry of Labour. But that's something you'll solve within the government. We have the statements by Mr Protossalitis in the newspaper "MAKEDONIA", which refer to issues of the prospect of OAED: "The new administration of OAED is investing in quality apprenticeships, with actions aimed at the overall upgrading of programmes and ensuring professional success for students.", "MAKEDONIA" newspaper in November 2019 as well. On the other hand, Mrs Kerameau states, also through the New Democracy programme, that the objective is to depreciate, reduce, demolition of the OAED and to create, return to their TEC programme, vocational training schools, 2013 and the direction of post-training - not post-training - in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u77	Please complete, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u78	I fear, Minister, that within the same government you are rowing in different directions and you know when on one ship another is rowing forward, another in the back, and another in the side what the direction is. It doesn't exist, it stays at the same point. This results in the workers in the OAED, a thousand seven hundred in the number, well-paid, substitutes and permanent ones, finally wondering what the target is. Is the aim of enlargement, of further use, of this institution, which, as I have shown you, is doomed to the consciousness of the world, or, in fact, to turn all of this into what? Families that do not have the necessary income cannot pay the exact IEC, Minister. They can't send their child for a cooler, for an electrician, for a pastry, for a restaurant in an expensive IEK. They choose the OAED exactly for that reason. So what are you gonna do? What's the direction? Is this too, in the context of insurmountable neoliberalism, to lead the OAED to despair? We expect - and I do not want to make a trial of intent - that I expect not to, because my voice is the voice of these workers, who are waiting to hear, but of the young children, who have not been to the university, who have not gone to high school, to see whether the current government will be the further utilization, as they also want, and the social partners, GSE and GSE, and the workers, about eight hundred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. You will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Comrade, I'm thinking if you had a trial of intent, what would you say? Because you in your position and in your question, not only did you say a reflection and a question, but you foretold our government plan, our prospect, neoliberalism, the closure of the OAED. You have reached the end of an imaginary picture of an OAED which at least we have neither in mind nor in the government policy that we have developed. In any case, in order to compose a few issues, I agree with you, both as Minister and as politicians. The OAED, firstly, is a very important arm not only for the Ministry of Labour but also for the State as a whole, in order to give directions to vocational training and employment the next day and secondly, it is a reality now known in our country: the need to find human resources with skills, which is absent. In order for this human potential to exist with skills, Mr Triantafylides, you are right to say that there must be so-called EPAs, that there must be the OAED, that there must be professional directions that will come through the OAED. So I don't see where to argue with you. Your question, your anxiety and what you say I am absolutely in agreement. For the Ministry of Labour and his political leadership, guidance is clear and I will say in my dentext about the resources that we will be managing in the next few years what we need to do nationally, because the resources are many billions and this government and the next and the next one have some specific direction to take advantage of for the benefit of Greek workers. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So I conclude by saying that your concern and anxiety as a question is answered by 'yes, I agree with you'. The OAED will be at the forefront of this national effort and will maintain this role of the country's vocational training.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Therefore, I understand, Minister, that the statements made by the OAED commander, Mr Protossalitis, do not apply and the election plans for the deterioration of the OAED do not apply. This is enough to me, as I am sufficeful of the fact - I am tabling this in the Minutes - that as a government will the previous government, positively appraising the work of the OAED apprenticeship schools, proceeded with the extension of their operation until 2022 and under Rule 3486/2016, Article 66, paragraph 19 and with a provision for evaluation of the system after five years of implementation, according to the National Strategic Framework for Vocational Education and Training. Your former colleague, Nassos Iliopoulou, speaking in November 2018 to the workers, said: "We question the institution as absolutely positive and do not need to wait in 2022 to proceed with this conclusion. We seek the effective upgrading and expansion of schools and the necessary support measures for workers in them." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So let me understand, Minister, that 2021 will not be the last year students will be enrolled in the OAED apprenticeship schools, that there is a point at which we can agree. It is important to say that we agree in this direction - and this is what the workers hear - and that, in this direction, no worker, whether or not he is a substitute or a permanent member of the thousand seven hundred ten, should be concerned about the next day of his relationship. For we are talking about people who have built a life relationship with the OAED. Average is from 12 to eighteen years of employment in the OAED. Let me understand, then, that you believe the institution, strengthen the institution, you will continue to support it, you will not wait for you in 2022 and you will draw up a medium-term programme to become this institution the way in which the social institutions of GSEEEE, GEEE, but also the people, the students themselves assess, but especially the businesses, the business, when one of the two graduates of the two-year theoretical and practical practice in OAED finds a direct job, cooling, pastry, pastry, restaurants, electronics, electricians, car engineers, etc. and other specialties. I say this because you said 'I cannot understand why it is based'. When you attempted it in 2013, we had a record stream in the IEK. And you know it from Naxos, from poor people, poor families that expensive IEKs have no opportunity to go. Of the twenty - eight thousand went in 2014 to the sixty - two thousand and today they are in the seventy thousand. It's not just private, it's public. It's halfway through. Half of them headed to private and half towards public IEK. That's compulsory. So if we devaluate the OAED, you understand what will happen to post-mutual and post-training - mainly post-training. Which Greek family doesn't want her child to take out high school? So we're mostly talking about the metabolizer. He will be directed to the OAED, since from there he will have - and already has - practical light to find a job, to find a piece of bread, to make a family. This is very important. And since we are talking about bread - and I am closing with that, Mr President - I have told you that the first issue is unemployment. After a six-month and seven-month period, you must also give some real evidence of how much you have dropped the unemployment rate, how many jobs you have created. When we were in Columbia, every day the New Democracy officials said, "Tell us a business you made". I would also like to say to you, therefore, that you tell us a business you have set up, the level of budget in the private sector. No, I'm not talking about the fugitives who doubled and tripled. I am talking about the private sector, where jobs have actually been created, investment has been made etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second is this: why did you take this announcement, Minister, in relation to the increase in the minimum income? We have announced that we are tabling a concrete draft law that will provide for an increase in the minimum wage in 2021 and 2022 7.5% in the lowest wage. Isn't that what your Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, said? In other words, it did not say that twice as much GDP growth as 4% by 2 is making us 8. We're better again, Minister. Why did you question it and you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u83	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've been talking 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your tolerance and your understanding. So why did you react like that, Mr. Brutsi? Two times four is eight. About Mitsotakis said that "we will give you a double increase in GDP". Isn't GDP projected to increase 4%? Two times two is 8. That is what we said: an increase of 7.5% in 2021, 7.5% in 2022. Why did you react to them that it can't be done? So, what do you mean? That Mr. Mitsotakis was not scientifically classified when he said twice as much of GDP, wasn't he? He said failures? Did I say things that don't apply? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u85	Before giving the floor to the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the General High School of Mandras (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Programme "State of the Republic", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and a training meeting from the 16th Amarousi Municipal School. The House welcomes you. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, let me begin with two introductory remarks, and I also believe that Parliament should be able to function properly. Observation first to all colleagues, new and old. This picture that you see the Minister of Labour and all the Ministers being here, in the headquarters of the ministers, and in answering dozens of topical questions from Members of Parliament and from Co-Population, is a new picture. I would remind you that in the past he did not have the opportunity - and I as a Member - to ask the SYRIZA Labour Ministers. They did not answer when, Mr President. They did not come and renounce Parliament and parliamentary procedures. This, Mr Triantafylides, is one truth. I say that because today you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u87	You're referring to the Samara Government - Venizelou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u88	Please don't interrupt. Nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u89	Don't interrupt because it's rude. You see the ministers answering you, speaking and interrupting. I say this because the tolerance of the Bureau is not welcome, Mr President. Because when the honourable Member has three minutes to ask - and I do not want to intervene in the procedure - he cannot make a general political position and escape his question, Mr President, and the Bureau can tolerate it. Because you are now compelling the Minister to answer general policy, which is not right. You heard Mr Triantafylides not only asking, not only should he secondaryly, but for eleven minutes instead of three making a general political position. So I ask why the Bureau accepts it. I'm closing my remarks and I'm actually going. Mr Triantafylides, I repeat: we fully agree that OAS is a central arm of the state. He won't be degraded. Don't worry. Upgrade will be made. We do not do so in the logic that there are a thousand six hundred workers and there must be jobs for them. This isn't the realm. Most importantly, this work produced in the OAED is particularly important for the country. It has been proven by the evidence you have shown later and by the SYRIZA period, that these workers who went through the OSH, have found a job. Why did they get a job? Let's say it, so we can figure it out. I recently had a meeting with the European Union Employment Director-General, Mr Corte, and he spoke to me about two indicators. We now know in Greece what these indicators are. These are the two indicators which constitute the nightmare in the labour market for our country. Firstly, we have the lowest indicator in Europe in the labour market - we know that - which undermines growth and is against women. Secondly, we have the lowest index of skills in Greece. What does that mean? This means that Greece is in front of a large crossroads. In 2021-2027 the Ministry of Labour through the European Social Fund - Greece, that is, we all, the political system - will only manage EUR 5.7 billion for labour. We are obliged, Mr Triantafylides - and I think that you too cannot deviate from what I am about to say now - to go to these two areas. So, firstly, we need to strengthen the skills of the Greeks, because that is exactly what the labour market - skills that are missing today - and, secondly, we need to integrate as many women into the labour market as possible with the money that they are coming from. So the programmes that need to be carried out in the coming years, after me, the next governments, should be in this direction, in other words, creating skills. And the space that skills can be produced - a major part - is OAED. So for the future, OAED has a bright environment in front of it, which will be exploited - and must be exploited - for the good of the country, the workers, to acquire skills and to integrate harmoniously into the labour market today thirsting special skills that do not exist in the Greek area. We therefore agree, Mr Triantafylides, that there should also be issues where we are converging - that the skills area is a national priority for the country in the functioning of directions and policies. And the OAED will play a bright future. Now, as far as unemployment is concerned: Look, as a member of the opposition, I have kept the level of criticism high. We did not work on the logic of ejecting the minimum wage at EUR 751. Mr. Tsipras said it and deceived the workers. We did not say that we would press the button, as you said in 2014, and we would eliminate part-time work, because without flexible forms of employment there cannot be a developed market economy. Mr Tsipras - and also SYRIZA - said that he would abolish flexible forms of employment and that he was, in the end, the Prime Minister - and his government - who brought 1/3 of the workers under the unemployment benefit into wages and by a majority of the new recruits with flexible forms of employment. I'm up against it. Today I have to tell you, Mr Triantafylides, that we are in the fourth month when unemployment is constantly falling. Last October - these are the elements of ELSTAT, and, I repeat, unemployment is only measured by ELSTAT - we had 18.6%, while this year we have 16.6%, two units since last year. And the declining of unemployment continues. Our policies - which are many - are taking place and, more specifically, you will listen to them in the debate that the Prime Minister will be doing in response to Mr Tsipras and Mr Koutsoubas on labour issues next Friday, as has already been announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u90	We continue with the third, with number 473/4-2-2020, a timely question for the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The living and working conditions of migrant workers of the land." Mr Katsotis' timely question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, I would like to make a comment on what the Minister said earlier: the BSE representative could not have had from the Minister and what he said here today - a BSE press release - in terms of flexible forms, wages, working conditions and the attitude towards the labour movement. He wants government union. He is good, as he has already told us about the Syrian shipyards. And that wants to strengthen its policy as a whole. It is known that the land workers are working all over Greece. It is a support for the rural economy, it is a support for livestock farming. The conditions for the remuneration and work of migrants - land workers are disgusting. They primarily shape the miserable living conditions and conditions of life in general. All governments, in implementing this strategy of capitalist development, form the conditions for meeting the needs of business groups for cheap labour and not only tolerate, but support their medieval working and living conditions. Land workers experience the inhuman face of the exploitation system with images from the slave age. This is what the shipowners want, and that is what the government promotes with anti-government policies. Shipowners, of course, also attempted to make use of the Golden Dawn in this sense that the Minister spoke of the shipyards earlier. Sometimes, when inhumanity takes off and cannot be silenced, images are projected by the media that highlight the disgraceful conditions that all of them are working and living, which - as I said - support the primary sector of the economy. Obstacles, greenhouses are the living spaces of the vast majority of earthworkers, without even the minimum hygiene conditions. They are required at work from morning to night, without breaks, under all climatic conditions, without pesticide protection measures. Unpaid work is dominating. Any claim for the payment of a contractor is dealt with by the terrorism of weapons, as a few days ago at Marathon - on 27 January - and by extortion to those who do not have papers to accept the state of slavery they impose on them. We are not talking about an isolated incident, as the government claims and various other factors. The vast majority of migrants - land workers work and live under these conditions, without rights, with low-interests and under terror and violence when claiming self-evident. The acquittal of Greek justice a few years ago of the employers who carried out a murderous attack, with shots, to the land workers in New Manolad, armed the employer's hand to Marathon. This is a general situation in the agricultural sector, where the common agricultural policy is rooting out small and medium-sized farmers, concentrating land and production on large farms, imposing inhuman conditions of work with the victims of land workers and self-employed farmers. We ask you, Minister: do you intend to take steps to grant residence permits and ensure adequate and healthy accommodation for migrant workers? Would you like to take steps to sign a collective contract of employment with salaries and rights which meet their needs, as well as to provide full medical and insurance cover for everyone and transfer of insurance rights, by signing transnational agreements, to their countries of origin? These are the questions that we will be waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, I would like to assure you that neither a government alliance exists with large companies against workers, nor with the Ministry and the Government, but there is neither a chaotic and uncontrolled situation everywhere, as you have described, such as the one you have just said. And that's why there are laws. We are a favoured country, democracy works, there are laws that ensure everything you have said. In practice, therefore, I tell you that the Government and the Ministry of Labour are the guardian of labour law and labour rights. They guard against labour rights, which is indeed our top priority. We are constantly saying this and repeat it: Top priority of our government is legality in the labour market. I have to tell you that I can only reply to what I really am a Minister of Labour. What do I mean? In the first question, especially with regard to the hygiene, living and staying of foreign land workers, the Ministry of Labour is not competent. I will therefore focus in detail on my second question on the signing of a collective labour contract, wages, medical care and the conclusion of transnational agreements and the other issues arising from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u94	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you were Minister before and now. And before and now you say exactly the same thing, that you are implementing labour legislation, the Ministry is here and it guarantees workers' rights. However, the situation is getting worse in all workplaces. The arbitraryness and immunity is the one that dominates and it dominates with your tolerance or support. The wrath of these landworkers is abundant, it is overflowing. This shooting incident isn't to get over it like this. What did the workers ask for? They have asked for their jobs, as other workers are asking for, of course, you are not saying a word. How many unpaid workers are today? How many are there? Does the Ministry of Labour have any clues? Does the trade unions agree with this information about the unpaid work that exists today? How many are unpaid immigrant land workers, you know? Do you have any of these? Are you talking to their representatives, with their trade unions? No, it's not on your priorities. It is known that this state, which, if you like, supports the few, instead of doing the self-evident things, the police and the government towards the shooter, went to the workers and blackmailed them in prison because it says they don't have papers, which deprives them of slaves, slaves! These are unacceptable, provocative! Also, Minister, it is your responsibility to secure workers. It is known that they are employed by a bachelor. Do you know what their insurance is? Until now, there was the OGA, the bachelor in the OGA, there was insurance cover. Now, ever since EKKA became, since 2017, it doesn't count the time of insurance, it doesn't count him. There was the second class, they were there insured. Now there are no classes, unless you shape it through the new insurance you bring, again the law - looting, the redistribution of the Katrugalos law. So the employer pays the 400 euros, which is the minimum to have health care - EUR 4,000 a year - and does not give them a franc! The employer pays the 400 euros. This is the situation that dominates migrant workers, land workers. And you say that working conditions are not your case. So, the pesticides, the ones they throw, which is necessary, anyway, for agricultural production, who will control them? Is it not the mechanism that the Ministry has, the APRC, for the health and safety at the workplace? It's not their responsibility to control at least that, that's the pesticides? Is it not your responsibility when you say - from the arrangements that exist so far - that immigrants from third countries are invited to work as land workers, is there a temporary residence and work permit and food and housing? What's the housing? Under what terms? Who's responsible for this? Doesn't the Ministry of Labour have it? They're not workers? What are they? What are they, slaves? Do they belong somewhere else? I think that what you have just said, namely that it is not your responsibility for the health and safety of workers, it is primarily the responsibility of you. We expect you to tell us what you will do for both their safety and health and safety and for the collective agreement, which is an issue that, if you like, ensures the minimum conditions for decent living for these workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u96	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, let me begin with three comments on what my colleague from the Communist Party of Greece said. I would therefore like to tell you, Mr President, that the issue you raised as an observation that I represent BSE and the government, not only is irresponsible and irresponsible, but I am turning it back to you. Because it is a priority for our own government to operate the so-called'social dialogue' with the social partners. And the social partners, ladies and gentlemen, are the highest in the ranking of a state, talking to society itself with its representatives and employers and workers. But you, Mr. Colleague of the Communist Party of Greece, prevented labour from being represented. You prevented workers from holding democratic conferences...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u98	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u99	...and today at the negotiating table and the interlocutors there is no GFCM!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u100	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u101	You 'what do you say'!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u102	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u103	As you respond, you do not have the monopoly of truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u104	The movement does not accept your intervention. Should they discuss employers with employers? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Catatotis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u106	It's all right, it's all right! Mr. Catatotis, it hurts you! You don't want there to be workers on the table!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u107	Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Kathoto, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u109	The labour movement does not accept your intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Kathoto, let it be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, please, to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Catatotis, no one interrupted you, please. The Minister has his views. We're all judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u113	Of course we are all judged, ladies and gentlemen, but Mr Kathoto's policy has prevented him from being at the table of the debates...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u114	What he says is challenging, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u115	Mr Katsotis, he gives an indirect answer to your question, leave him alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u116	Ninety-nine pages has the judicial power with all that has been set up by the trade unions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u117	You're very welcome. This is the Minister's answer. This is parliamentary control. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u118	Unless you want me to say what you say and accept what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u119	No, you say what industrials say!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u120	In politics yours and yours, there is no other view. You are condemning the monopoly of truth and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u121	You only support those who accept your policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u122	If your opinion were to prevail, Mr Katsotis, the future of the workers would be impoverishment. Fortunately your opinions do not prevail.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u123	And now they're living prosperous!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u124	So I'm going to the essence of the question. Unfortunately today the GCC cannot sit in the official way, because you remember the events both in Kalamata and in Rhodes, which prevented the conference being held in order to have legal representation of workers. Let the people who are listening to us wonder, the workers, who prevented workers from being an interlocutor on the part of the State and the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u125	Make sure the GFCM doesn't strike to support them. Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u126	Secondly, with regard to the question of the insurance premium for workers in gainful employment, there is already in the insurance bill, which is the first bill after eleven years, the great insurance reform to come to Parliament next week, according to the timetable, which will have increased and no reduction in pensions. It's the first insurance bill to come to Parliament after eleven years! It is the first insurance bill, the first insurance reform to be seen by Greek MPs and the Greek state in the Parliament, accompanied by a full proportional study confirming the viability of the system by 2070. So, then, these tombstones, saws, knives, that evocates the KKE, okay, is a cheap opposition caramel of the Communist Party. But, unfortunately, for you, Mr Katsotis, this bill is a good bill, which all the producers have embraced. Make as many strikes as you want. Make demonstrations. The world is in favour of the insurance bill, because it is a bill that gives rises. It is a bill, which liberates the creative forces of the place for the first time after the catastrophic Katorugalos law. Doctors, lawyers, engineers, freelance professionals, self-employed, farmers, have embraced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u127	A hundred billion It's, uh...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u128	This unauthorised intervention, the unauthorized intervention of the JRC, suggests...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u129	Please, Mr. Katatotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u130	He entered insurance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u131	That answer is given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u132	He's not answering my question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u133	Everybody's judged. Okay. The people will judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u134	The inappropriate intervention of Mr Katsotis also proves his undemocratic perception because the Minister is coming to answer him...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u135	And you're democratic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u136	I've been interrupted ten times. He wants to dictate his opinion. That's why we're different!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u137	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u138	Sure. When I'm talking about the insurance you mentioned, will I let you pass the knives and axes and enclosures? You're out of reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u139	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u140	Others had the axes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u141	Let me tell you, this is parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u142	Mechanisms of the 1950s, Mr President! He's not answering my question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u143	Mr Katsotis, the parliamentary control extends both the limits and the questions and the answers. What can we do? That's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u144	Will he answer the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u145	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u146	I am continuing, Mr President, because I will not leave the challenge of insurance unanswered. Because when my colleague asks me to answer and ask me a question about insurance, which he judges with false arguments, I have to answer the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u147	Did I ask a question about the insurance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u148	Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u149	Did you guys hear the question about the insurance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u150	You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u151	Am I unacceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Davakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, this has never happened before! It's interrupting all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u154	That's the questioner, and the Minister's answer. You don't legalize. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u155	Then interrupt...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u156	The Minister's giving answers. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u157	I will repeat something, which I am obliged to do: this image, ladies and gentlemen, that the ministers should come and answer it for the first time with this government. Unfortunately, Mr Katsotis does not respect it. And while he's asking a question, he's interrupting me ten times the time I'm trying to be placed in my prototype and my denology. That's your democratic concept! We're not the same, Mr. Katatotis. You have other "democratic" models. I have a different perception. I respectfully watch the conversations. I heard you with respect. I didn't interrupt you. But I can't answer the "liquid-insurance" you said, on the "floor-insurance" you said about the insurance. If you put it, you'll get an answer. So I say, ladies and gentlemen, that it is an innovative insurance policy, which comes to the Greek Parliament for the first time after eleven years, which will bring increases and no reduction in pensions. That's what's important. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, it will be the first insurance, the first insurance reform in the country to be presented in the Greek Parliament, together with two unprecedented studies: the first study will be the study of adequacy conducted by the Economic University, while the second will be the proportionate study of the insurance company, which will accompany the insurance company and demonstrate viability by 2070. And the third issue: Mr Colleague, look. I've spent time with your vacations, with your responsibility. Here are four pages, the service answers for your question. I can delay reading the four pages. I don't want to do that. I would ask you to do this so that I do not delay time because there are other questions. Ask me a written question, so that I do not read the four pages of the SPS and the Ministry of Labour's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u158	It was written and you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u159	I promise I will answer, as I answer all questions. All I want to say to you is this. You, in the spirit of your question, refer to something that cannot be answered. In other words, we have the workers who are legal in Greece today. If there are abuses from Greece's business world, of course, the EPA intervenes. Labour law is a priority. I'm here to tell you that the business world of Greece isn't made by angels. Not everyone. There are also entrepreneurs who are consistent. But you, through your question, say that any non-legislative immigrants, refugee, as you say, come to Greece, at the same time - that's what you say to me - the state must find him home, secondly, to provide him with health care at all, thirdly, to take all unemployment, labour, minimum guaranteed income, everything, and fourthly, to get into a special environment much better than the Greeks, who are lawful and working in Greece or the legitimate immigrants who have taken papers in Greece. This cannot be done, Mr Katsotis. Greece has an operating framework. In other words, if anyone comes from Afghanistan today, you tell me "take him home, give him the benefits, give him the job, take care of him, hug him". Sure. Greece is a hospitable country. That is what you are saying right now through your question. Because you do not separate legal work from legal workers, but you are generally telling me about immigrants who come here in an irregular manner and demand that the Greek state have health care, you require rents, you require allowances to be paid. This can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u160	It distorts what we have said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u161	But if we look at offenses against any person, man, of course the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u162	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u163	You are now talking about events a decade ago. What can I answer that, Mr. Katsotis? In any case, I have the answer on behalf of the Ministry of Labour here. I do not want to delay the parliamentary procedure. Make the question in writing, Mr Katshoti.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u164	But in writing I did and you didn't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u165	So you want me to read the texts?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u166	You may also, Minister, if you wish to make these matters before the Bureau, take note of them and, if they are not satisfied, come back. To close the procedure provided for. It is a procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Katsotis, ask the question, and I'll send you the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u168	We did it and you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u169	When did you do it, Mr. Katatotis? I came to answer a timely question and you're telling me you asked a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u170	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u171	Just a moment, Mr President, let us come to an agreement. The Ministry of Labour accepts a storm of questions, up-to-date, written, daily. There's no question about being filed at the Ministry of Labour that I don't answer. If you have now made it in time that I have not yet received a reply, your timely question has been preceded. I, and now I am ready to answer, based on the documents of the Ministry of Labour. I'm telling you. But I commit before the House that if you do it to me in writing, which says that you have done it, and I have no reason to believe you, I will overturn and answer you. Or, if you are kind enough, please very much, Mr Katsotsis, ask the question again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-nine students and students and two teachers from the second section of the General Lyceum of Mandras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We now move on to the third with number 474/4-2-2020 on the second question of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The payment of debts to former workers of the Associations of Agricultural Cooperatives (ESA) Larissa - Farsalon - Almyrou". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. As you have said, Mr President, the question concerns the payment of accruals and debts in respect of compensation for former workers made redundant by the Larissa, Farsalon and Elassona Associations - not referred to - and by Almyros and other associations in the territory. In 2012 it was decided - after assemblies and on the basis of the situation of these associations - to close them, to introduce them into the clearing system and, at the same time, to dismiss the workers. Since then, and while the auction procedures of the clearer who took over - anyway - started to carry out this whole process, while he is in the process of auctioning and collecting money, the previous government comes with a bill in 2016, in particular, and changes the order, the priority of paying the auction. Instead of being the workers and later public, insurance funds, banks and so on, it puts the workers in the fourth series, with the result that eight years later, so far, of all the things that have been auctioned by the workers have received very little from the about 6 million euros due to them. And we are talking for eight years and we are talking about more than two hundred workers - the specific associations - who, apart from the range of unemployment, are unable to find jobs, so that they too can live, but also live in their families. Of course, they're at a dead end, in despair. And they do not know with this regime - i.e. the auctions respectively, or the collection of money - and with the 2016 legislative intervention when they will pay off their dues, their prizes. So the question to the Minister, to the Ministry, is to the Government, what steps will the Ministry take to meet the workers' demands on the basis of them in order to ensure the priority payment of those due to the workers above all creditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u174	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, Mr Lambroulis, Mr Vice-President, the issue you are addressing is undoubtedly a serious one. However, I would like to ask you why you are asking today - rhetorical the question - this question, and even so late, and you did not do so sooner. You know that the law you refer to, Mr.4384/2016 - you said so too - was passed by several ministers from the previous SYRIZA government. They, in fact, must give you the answer to your question, as, as you quite rightly say, Article 27(2) of Law No.4384/2016 replaced, as you said, Law No. 2810/2000 and Law No.4215/2011. The government ministers who voted for this law at the time are responsible for the problems you have mentioned and must tell you why they have done what they have done. I am sure they were aware of the problems faced by workers and as social workers - supposedly - more sensitive than us - they had to provide solutions which, for their own reasons, they did not. In any case, please refer to the matter. But today I cannot answer anything specific. It is something that is being considered by the Ministry of Labour as regards the question you raised. However, I would like to give some information on the information you have just mentioned. The certified debts of the NCA, according to the CRL data, are as follows: The Association of Farm Partnerships for Farsala has a total debt to the NCA of EUR 12,957,66 for the period from 1-10-1997 to 30-9-2017. Secondly, the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Larissa - Tyrnavos - Agias - for which you are already interested - owes EUR 9.508.801,50 for the period from 1-8-2008 to 31-12-2013. And thirdly, the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives in Almyros owes EVKA a total of EUR 6,507.405.38 for the period from 1-5/99 to 31-12/2014, that is, in total, the three cooperatives owed the EVKA approximately EUR 29 to 30 million. This money has not been paid for and must be paid. With regard to the actions, which have so far been carried out by the relevant departments of the Ministry of Labour on this issue, namely for the workers, firstly the cooperative organisation called the "Larissa-Turnavos-Agias Association" which is active in the area of responsibility of the Department of Labour Relations Inspectorate, Larissa, has faced considerable problems in its operation from debt and in November 2012, the representatives of the organisation - after a general meeting - decided to clear it. Indeed, the liquidation procedure has not been completed to date and the redundancy and redundancy payments have not been paid to workers. However, the Larissa Labour Relations Inspection Department, following all labour relations and implementation of the provisions of labour law in the above cooperative organisation, had carried out on-the-spot checks since 2011, during which the delay in paying paid wages to its employees had been detected. In particular, the Larissa Works Inspectorate, taking note of the problems of delaying employees of the Union, carried out the following actions: On 25-11-2011 it carried out an on-the-spot check on the company, during which it found a late payment of accrued earnings to sixty-seven employees in August, September and October 2011, totalling EUR 622,710,63. The lawful representative of the association was filed with the Larissa Police Prosecutor. On 8-2-2012, following an audit in the Olives Packet of the Cooperative in Larissa, there was a delay in the payment of accrued remuneration from September 2011 to January 2012, a non-paid payment of a non-repay and of an allowance for a year 2011 total amount of EUR 1.226,418,67. The legal representative of the association was also subjected to the LAPD, and a fine of EUR 15 000 was imposed and a fine of EUR 15 000 was established. On 18-5/2012, following a new audit, a new audit was carried out at the offices of the cooperative organisation, a complaint was filed with the Prosecutors' Office of Larissa for a delay in the payment of accruals of February 2012 to April 2012 totalling EUR 632,139,61. At this point I would like to add that forty-four former employees of the company RAS Larissa received a single financial grant of EUR 1 000 per unemployed former worker, i.e. a total of EUR 144 000, according to the FEK 3293/10-8-2018 from the previous government. As a consequence, as regards the remuneration of employees of the Farm Partnerships Association, the Larissa Labour Relations Inspectorate carried out an audit on 18-9-2014 and filed an appeal with the Public Prosecutor of Larissa in breach of the provisions of labour law relating to the non-payment of data on the remuneration and the amount of remuneration due to be paid to the employees. The complaint also concerned the delay in the non-payment of the redundancy allowance from 1-1/2012 to 2-9-2014, a 2014 licence and a Christmas gift, while in the process of resolving labour disputes it filed press reports to the LAPD for five employees. I'm interrupting here and we're continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u176	I imagine you've exhausted your second-guess with the report, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u177	There is still evidence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u178	Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened carefully. First of all, let your services know that our interest in this matter is not too late. In the past, in the previous government, we have tabled a few questions on this very subject and, indeed, on a question at the time, the Deputy Minister of Finance - if I am mistaken - Mrs Papanatsiou had responded specifically. In fact, it was committed here, within the framework of parliamentary control, to bringing legislation in some way, having considered the issue as a whole throughout the territory and similar problems of the Associations of Agricultural Associations that were in liquidation, which have closed down similar problems with the obligations of workers. In fact, then, as a party, in addition to exceptional aid, we had called for what is referred to as 'EUR 1 000', which the government itself has given through the OAS, if I am not mistaken - and which has rightly provided - as an emergency aid. But, look now. It's been so many years. I don't question the evidence. You made a reference to history. Good. This is not bad, so that everyone who hears and sees us can hear and learn about what has happened. The topical and urgent question is specific, namely what measures the government will take. In fact, in this respect, there is a memorandum from the workers who have tabled it to Mr Voridis and to a'scanning' Ministries - I will put it to the Minutes - where they propose something simple. They propose to change with legislative intervention, of course, from the government - and we say this from this point of view - the regime governing the clearance, disposal and allocation of the money collected from the auctions and the workers from fourth in a row should come first. We are talking about a regime which did not exist for these associations - I am not aware of other associations - at the beginning of the liquidation of the closure and liquidation. However, in the course of the course of the previous government's law of 2016, this series was overturned and the employees had taken up even this little money up until then in relation to the total amount of money they owed, suddenly fourth in a row, so that they were able to get from which the auctioning of minimum money, up to zero. So far, Minister, this eight-year period, that is, the workers - with their own figures - have taken about 500,000 euros. We're talking about over two hundred employees. I told you, in fact, that they are due to another EUR 6,000,000. So what we are calling for - and I am closing, Mr President - is the change in the legislative framework, so that the workers at a faster pace and within a shorter period will receive their dues and allowances. Everything else you said is understandable and accepted. That's the story. Of course, there were problems in working - as you say - and that also characterises people who were running, etc. But, Mr President, the question of the timely question is a concrete one and we expect a concrete answer. Will the Ministry, the Minister, have such legislation to ensure that workers, as a priority, are compensated for by any other creditor? I am presenting for the Minutes the document that I mentioned before. [[At this point, the Member and F Vice-President of Parliament, George Lambroulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u180	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u181	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the beautiful debate we are having on this issue, which I have said from the outset is serious. I have therefore presented a number of evidence, because this is what I get from my services. I didn't know or say that your interest was too late. I just said, as I said, that the change of this law, as you said, which changed the order of those with priority in liquidation is the law of SYRIZA. This is where we agree. So I didn't say it was too late. It was a cause I said that a question had to be asked to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u182	I had to clarify it for those who see us and listen to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u183	You did well. I, too, make it clear that your interest is not too late. It was just a shape of speech. Rhetoric was my comment on the question that you raised that the question had to go to SYRIZA's side because SYRIZA changed the workers' process from first to second. Now, with regard to a restoration of the image I have - to close the question - the workers as a whole through the procedures that have taken place all this time have received EUR 900,000 from debts of EUR 5.5 million. I mean, they've taken 1/5 in total. It's because of the other 4/5. I agree with you that this money must be paid back. I would like to say to you that I am not the appropriate Ministry that can commit itself and is neither in my character nor in my political education to go out and make announcements of commitments, as you said just now about the previous Minister of Finance who was committed here and never made a solution. I can't commit to something that I don't know if it can be done. It is something, however, that, as I told you in my prototype, is being considered. There are a number of aggregations to change the law. First is the Ministry of Justice, secondly the Ministry of Finance, thirdly the Ministry of Rural Development and lastly the Ministry of Labour. If and if there are initiatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u184	Where are the initiatives from, Minister? From Anna to Kaifa, let's go!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u185	...I'm very happy to tell you that I'm going to put my signature wide - wide on such a change of law. You should also address the other ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Institution, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 30 January 2020 decided that the draft law should be discussed at a meeting, uniform, in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u188	The House agreed. Before giving the floor to the rapporteur in New Democracy, I would like to make a statement to this House. SYRIZA Parliamentary Group President and party MPs tabled on 5-2-2020 a law proposal to increase minimum wages. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Efstratios Simopoulos, has the floor. It is true that the electronic registration system will be opened until the end of the first two rapporteurs, namely the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, you can register as speakers. Here, Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have had an extremely fruitful and exhaustive debate in the committees. We have had a debate which has shown that the parties - at least the small, if not the large - can agree. And, of course, this is due to the fact that the rapporteur from CSR was very well aware of the issue and came up with a constructive attitude, which is not very frequent, because we see other colleagues - particularly from CSR - to make 'copy-paste' speeches from unrelated bills and to accuse the Government of opaque procedures to bring into the public 'no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. We see, in other words, a sterile opposition, even in management matters, in matters where consensus could be reached. We are, of course, calling for that consensus and for the government to do so. Of course, we are talking about a consensus which obviously cannot come from the JRC. The JRC, as I saw in the previous debate, has learned to claim that it possesses the absolute truth and whoever has a different view of it blames him for anti-communism. Of course, political anti-communism is nothing wrong. If I'm accused of being liberal, I won't tell anyone he's unliberal. Politically we may also be anti-liberal and anti-communists, provided that we can talk. During the debate in the committee there were differences of approach to major parties issues. A big difference is the difference we have in how we see entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, and above all, of course, of the Officerial Representation, we, the New Democracy, the Government, the Parliamentary Group, believe that the main lever of development for that country is entrepreneurship, and that is why any bill that comes, which can facilitate the exercise of entrepreneurship, finds us positive. The previous bill, which you had brought, prohibited the establishment of waterways by individuals. There could only be public bodies - listen, listen! - in Greece, 2019 and 2020, set up water routes. In this sense, we have proceeded and incorporated the establishment and operation of water infrastructures in strategic investments. At the same time we have extended - logically - the possibility of setting up both POs and tourist ports. Tourist ports are now also being created and created by individuals. entrepreneurship, therefore, in every attempt by this government to bring growth. A second point - again by the committee - was that there was an effort - and that is the logic, if you like, of ideology, of the way you think - to be subject to the exclusive, the great, the suffocating control of the state. You have not understood that this really does not make growth easier. In an effort of your own - well-meaning - to close any hole that may exist in a process, you are actually being blocked in terms of procedures, you are blocking the development of new fields of activity. That is why, with the very many procedures that you have put in place through committees, through the creation of many joint ministerial decisions which you have not adopted at the end, you have essentially put in place obstacles to the establishment of the waters. Another topic that emerged and is important is that you would have no objection to a map, for example, for Greece to have all possible places where water and then each investor could know where he would invest. We believe that the market meets these needs. And the municipalities, who can establish water and private individuals who want to get involved in the process, will find that average, so that where there is a real need for a market, the waters will be established. Of course, I am not talking about the cases of remote islands, where it is also an obligation for the state to contribute to the effort to establish the waters. In our attempt to remove this whole process from bureaucracy, we have also taken care of the process of certification for water roads being given to individuals. At the same time, we have also created the infrastructure through the water fields to be more easily defined, to be able to develop tourism in areas that are extremely remote. What I mentioned relates to the first part of the bill, the part that is mentioned in the water roads. But we also have a second very important, in my opinion, which starts with the government's effort, from the government's conviction, from the government's will to facilitate driving licences. We know that the citizens, with the existing system, are hostages for a few months. This draft law establishes the possibility of issuing a provisional licence, which can in fact be electronically issued. This is important because some of us who have this possibility can still have it on our mobile. This effort is part of a more general government effort to make the procedures in the state electronically, an effort that is horizontal, an effort which has begun to bear fruit and in the next few months we will see these fruits at an accelerated pace. Inside the bill, which is quite large and important, there are also arrangements for public-use trucks, for CBELs and, of course, for taxis and tourist buses. Here again, I think we are liberalising certain situations. For example, throughout Europe and Greece, the possibility of occupational risk insurance has come. That is what we are adopting. Thus, motorists will not have to pay the guarantee or actually remove liquidity from their profession. Through occupational risk insurance, the State will also be covered. One field, for which there has been extensive discussion, is the field of mixed control scales. There's a huge problem there. We know this mainly from central Macedonia. There are trucks from other countries that go under any circumstances, by violating labour legislation, tax legislation, the Ministry of Transport legislation and transport. Through this legislation, we make it easier to carry out more effective controls. However, we have another way in this direction. All the members of the committee, all the rapporteurs have agreed that there should also be a representative of the APRC and the Independent Public Income Authority, and that in order for there to be equality the fine should obviously be paid on the spot. It's a crucial thing that as a government, as a ministry, you should see it immediately. Different, I would say, treatment of trucks which have foreign plates in relation to what they have Greek. In an effort to help the professionals of the sector - and indeed small professionals - we release the possibility of declassifying their trucks, that is, essentially to stop working from the need to produce tax information. This is one of the pathogens of the Greek state, one of the pathogens which for many years have been holding hostage citizens. Of course, since we are in favour of entrepreneurship, we allow companies to import a fleet of vehicles and then rent it. Of course, we have also made many environmental regulations on the renewal of the fleet. This is extremely important. We have said that at the top of the Mitsotakis government's agenda it is the environment and in every bill we prove it to be in the right place in this direction. Another issue that is solved and is important is in fact the issue of the transfer of lines of the OSH and OSH to the CBELs. It is now important because in Thessaloniki we received a very bad situation and should be immediately and within February a hundred twenty buses to enter the main lines, because some lines will be assigned to the Thessaloniki CBEL. We are also making a very big reform in the work machinery. The government makes a major reform using the private sector. And there importers for years have been hostages of the state, because the agency has not had the infrastructure to issue certificates of technical competence. Now these certificates, as we have done in other cases, will also be given by certified bodies. On the other hand, because we are genuinely interested in road safety but also in the environment, there is a regulation in Article 57 on work machinery which forces all owners every five years to pass through control. That has not existed until now and now that we are legislating and voting on this provision will also exist. We also have provisions allowing TRAINOSE to proceed with its investments. It is known that the state used to build from land to buildings for TRAINOSE or elsewhere, for airports, without permits. This now goes beyond this law. Of course, I do not think it is of minor importance and other regulations relating to ITSAK, the 'ERGOSE' or the Crete Development Agency, which will allow them to function much better. As regards, of course, the last two, to which I shall refer for another minute, Mr President, it is the possibility that when the individual is interrupted - not because of strikes - national roads, as has been done recently, the state can impose fines. And finally, as far as the Greek, for which you are being eaten, is a 100% positive intervention, which allows the investor to start demolition at the expense of the demolition. To conclude, I think that I really think that this multi-brand plan, which regulates a lot of transport issues, beyond the development of water, is going in a very positive direction and from what I understand the opposition parties will vote on, except for some exceptions to labour law, for example, for the CCTs. I personally do not understand why, with regard to the CBS, which are anonymous companies, their labour law or the possibility of shareholders' authorisation for general meetings not to go hand in hand with the law of other public limited companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting after they were toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks: The one-way stations of nearly two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attending from the 26th High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, just now, ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the upper Western theories and are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "VENIZELOS", thirteen students and two escorts from the Drory University of the United States. The House welcomes the students from the United States. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I imagine there will be interpretation and interpretation of what we have said. I would also like to inform colleagues and colleagues who have now entered the House that, following Mrs Perka's suggestion, the registration system will be closed. So you have the time to sign up to the end of the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Theorist Perka, whom I now call on the Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u191	Good evening, too. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taking the floor after my dear colleague Mr Simopoulos, I would like to thank him because we have really tried constructively to contribute to this bill, as we generally think we are oppositioning. Where we agree and vote and put forward positive proposals and, of course, we disagree strongly. As far as this bill is concerned, I am beginning with the first part on the water road. I have heard Mr Kefaliannis' statements that they will fly summer waterplanes. I hope - and I'm glad - that they fly waterplanes. And I, a few years ago, had made such a wish with another kind of bill, of course, we were fighting. I would remind you that when we took over from the government there were investors who had been in the country for years and left because there was no framework and the law for them to be licensed. We took off two licenses - and one that existed - Corfu, Paxos and Patras, with the old law and with very great difficulty. It is precisely because we understood this difficulty that a new law was drawn up. And you come with another bill now. But I shall refer to fundamental differences. The main difference from the previous law is that the licence may also be granted to a private person, while in any case the licence is granted to a private person, and to the previous bill. This is where we anticipated publicity. Why public? It's not about ideoscopy. What is of great importance - we have also told the committees - when you put a new means of transport, an instrument which helps both the tourist product and the aerospace probably, all of this must be done with a strategic planning, somehow part of it. It cannot be in a logic 'first come first served', i.e. anyone who goes first, gets permission. This is our main difference in this bill. But I keep going. We've also had permission to establish ourselves indefinitely. Fortunately the Minister has taken note of our remark. Indeed, an investor could vaguely commit an area and never become a waterway for competition. It remains, however, that the authorisation deficit, which, if it does not have two and a half years of operation, should be somewhat withdrawn for the same reasons. And, of course, with the possibility of the private license being obtained, we also have water routes in tourist accommodation, ROTS, etc. I would point out here once again that there should be a resettlement. Villages in these tourist accommodations are made by presidential decree. It's not just that there's a license coming out, it's not very simple. There should be a prediction. Also, the provision for lakes, of course, finds us in agreement, let alone me as MP Florina with six lakes in my prefecture. We had her, too. But you come to other bills and you dismantle lake management bodies. I am also wondering, if there is no management body in the lake, who will exercise control and control over the port, for example, in the maritime area? As far as the environment is concerned, we had started a study. It was a very difficult point to clear the water routes. It's not over, I see that you haven't made it. A category 2 is predicted, but it does not exactly say what category 2 waterways are. From there on, differences are small. The response time of the services is reduced. This does not find it right, however, by such a difficult process of authorisation. The minimum requirements don't look, but they go with a ministerial decision. It is, of course, a good thing that the inspection committee is becoming a merciful one. On technical issues, on safety manuals, etc., we agree of course. It's probably the same provisions we had. There is one difference in the fees, where it is foreseen not more than EUR 10 per passenger, and a fee per flight section is abolished, which was provided for in our own bill, because from its revenue we could probably build a number of lines of water that are subsidized, etc. Okay, that is, of course, the main contradiction between the private or public body. From there, of course, we also have an objection to the flights allowed. We were saying six pairs, but here's every airline. Anyway, they're not the majors, because let them really fly. It can therefore be said that these water routes are the main differences, particularly strategic planning. Let me remind you that we have also made a map, and when it is a public body that has the authorisation to set up, it will indeed be able to draw up such a plan. But let's go to the second chapter. Indeed, this bill has put us in a lot of trouble, that is, it has ordered good provisions, provisions that solve problems, bad provisions and very bad provisions. I'm starting with the second chapter. There's actually all this categorization and it'll look like my placement. Article 28 very nicely regulates topics on trailers and Article 29 on aquaculture operations. Very positive, Article 30 with the mixed steps of control. Let us say that our carriers have a great deal of trouble by intercepting the transport project, mainly from foreign vehicles. They may sometimes be Greeks who have their seat in Bulgaria, etc. Illegal cabotage. If there are no control mechanisms, then, this is becoming more and more important. There's a fight on the streets, and then it's transported internally to our own transporters. We also adopted the OLAF proposal that there should also be a representative of the OLAF to monitor transport work, but also of the OLAF. And, of course, we are reinstated to request the space for the on-the-spot payment, because otherwise the offenders leave and go find them. He said the Minister would take care of that. We really would love to see it. It's a big problem. Very positive and the evidence of insurance information, the rental of immovables that facilitates businesses, the Actio-Préveza connection, if subject to the agreement of both Vice-Presidents and both CBS. No problem. Positive arrangements for tourists renewing the fleet, so they are in favour of both road safety and the environment and, of course, the placement of attitudes - taxi parking to be carried out following a study to be carried out by OSCE or OSH. And that is very good, because all this really has to be done with some studies. It's not about the eye. However, let's go a little on the negative that starts from Article 33, which is very negative. It concerns the CBCs, where a presidential decree regulating the operation is repealed, an internal regulation is laid down for each CBC, and that is what we appreciate - and it has also raised a storm of reactions - that it opens the door to redundancies of workers, but also movements of employees without their agreement. We also disagree with representation at the shareholders' general meetings by delegation, because a number of problems have arisen there too. Problem and the use of the front position at the CBS by a passenger for purely road safety reasons and some articles that really concern us. I am talking about Article 36 concerning penalties imposed on vehicles carrying out passenger transport with a tariff assigned to another operator. This article provides transport services to taxis because transport between different regional units is now permitted, which has so far produced a fine. What's the disagreement? I'm not actually going into it. All transport, how to share, how to distribute it is subject to certain provisions. You can't make a correction to a arrangement to share the transport project otherwise. I think that this was especially the case at the last minute, because if it had been in the audience, we would have heard the relevant reactions. It's problematic. Of course we agree with the abolition of imprisonment. For the concession on the urban lines, I understand that these are grounds for urgency. We'd given some lines too. It was very few. For the temporary driving licence, we have said only one reservation again. The whole of Chapter 3 is positive, because it will be possible for the citizen to obtain his permission very quickly. However, we fear that, until the information system is done, there will be paperwork, which means that there is a risk of false diplomas. Now we go to Chapter 4 where the other provisions are. Here, too, there are some positive articles. These are compensation for the air traffic controllers of the AOC and the PSC, the arrangements in the service of road charges, a liquid fuel agency at public car stations. Reimbursement of expropriations if the owner agrees to be a positive measure. The licensing of the facilities leased by GIAOSE is also a positive provision and, of course, the arrangements made by the public. ITSAK is not exactly what should be done, but it is gaining some autonomy and still falling within the OSCE. The Ministry's spending's all right. But we're going to the negative now. We're starting with APD. There's been a process by the previous government. There has been a committee of renowned prestiges - it is also the Legal Council of State inside - it has proceeded with the selection of the PSC commander and was ready to come to Parliament and now you are abolishing the committee, re-enacting committee, re-entering process, changing qualifications and going back from the beginning. I'll say it again. We still don't have the APD. The Minister said at some hearing about the PSC commanders that we are now moving forward. It's been seven months, and that's not the beginning. And I also want to say that in the bill, in the piece on the water road, it says the DEA bill, when it had to be said. That's the beginning. If it happens, the law will change again or it won't happen. Article 53 on the requirements for the issue of the first marketing authorisation is an unreasonable abolition of our own provisions which have had improvements, but we should not go back, as should the abolition of the special committee of doctors. The work machines, if they go into one class, check, but firstly, the matter leaves the public and goes to a certified body. We disagree with that. If something goes wrong with some public service, then, before we fix it, we do not abolish it. We shall then say that in the amendments. And a strange one that seemed to me and I say it again and I haven't been answered is this. We know that all vehicles must have paid off at the end of 20 years ago, and here we have ten. It's a little charming. For the renovation of Athens, we have this strange thing. We had the current mayor accusing this project, the renewal of Athens, and now we see him becoming president. That's weird. For lawyers, for mobility with a derogation from any general and specific provision, we are not in agreement. For their statutes, we still have a change. But now we're going to the worst, and I'm talking about the Greek articles. Article 66 concerns the submarine unit. We have no objections. That was anyway a unit that had to be relocated ten months after the transfer of the shares. But by the way - and every time I have the opportunity to say it - I want to say about the relocations that while in 2012, all operators should have relocated through the Greek, no one had left. And sixty-nine public and private bodies left with our own efforts. Article 68 just shows the bad legalization. You repeat it. You're bringing in an MDG for the public and the public. Repeat a provision to correct the PPP and now comes a third provision to see for the holders of ownership of the gangs. It's very rough, and it was obviously a mistake. The problem is, however, Article 67. We have an arbitrary law. We are not a country - and now I answer to you, Mr Simopoulos, for entrepreneurship - against entrepreneurship. We are against the entrepreneurship that the countries of the third world, we have been talking about, which do not have legislation, which does not comply with environmental legislation, Community legislation, law on arbitrary, spatial planning. These things are regulated. It's a painful job - I lived it - for these arbitrary things, because we categorised them and went to pieces - a part of the law on arbitrariness, in consultation with the investor to agree on how to go next. That's how things work. We cannot accept an ad hoc regulation to legitimise arbitrary acts outside the law, which will, in fact, be adopted at the end by means of an act of credentials that the Minister for Development will do. The Hellenic Office, which is at the Ministry of Finance, must control all these elements and must also monitor the development of the project, which is 20 years long, if the limitations of the Presidential Decree and of the Ministry for Construction are respected. I would remind you that this provision with a contour of buildings makes legalization. So building can never control it, whether or not it exceeds it. We consider that unacceptable. Now let's go to the comm, 'cause it's not missing. The buildings that are in the area that is the casino and the park will be demolished in the first phase. First question: who? The investor will enter the public sector - why have the shares not changed, but to make it clear to us - to say that bulldozers have entered the Greek? Because that's what this is about. Because you are arbitrarily demolishing, both in the original contract and in the amending contract, and in the business plan, it also has an investor's clear obligation. So the stock changes and the demolition starts to demolition. It's communist, and I think he's played enough, and that's not how it's gonna happen. I do not, of course, want to take the view that there is a possibility of demolition being made by public money. I don't think they're gonna happen. I would like to say more about entrepreneurship. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about this because we want to have legal certainty in our investment. Because the Greek has all such refugees and all investments have appeals. If you are not going 'by the book', because we are a country that has or should have had design and legislation that is kept everywhere. We now have the amendments. The first amendment concerns wages for the OSH and so on. Here I understand - and I know a little bit about the space - that you have to do a full graduate and understand how each employee is paid for in the OSH. The auditors take one, they ask the electronics. They're very reasonable, they're employees' requests. We cannot say no to them, but under no circumstances can they come with a last-minute amendment. There's got to be a word. Why should I tell you something? Work peace is at stake. I have information that the other specialties in the D.A. are starting on strike. More sensible is to sit in a conversation at the table, see what happens on the basis of qualifications, etc. I'm not actually going into it, but that's not really how it's done. Now listen to what the second amendment refers to. When the bill first came into the consultation, it had various provisions that we had told them and "photographics" and "bads" etc. Some of them have been pointed out to the committee that they have been withdrawn and said 'bravo, good'. One of them comes back with an amendment. It's the same. The one that has been withdrawn, and we have not debated it, comes back with an amendment and concerns the CCTVs, not for their own use, but for public use. There's been a big conversation here too. I would once again say not to go into substance, but to say that when hearing the bodies it would be very interesting to discuss this amendment as well to see what others say. Another last-minute amendment, which has to do with removing material from a municipal council, from a municipality, where the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will approve the altitudes. Because we know history, it's obviously about the property in Kassiopi. Of course, it becomes horizontal for all the properties that have gone to the L.4689, which have been subject to L.4689. We therefore consider it unacceptable. Why should I tell you something? It is what we say that the consultation, beyond protecting both the administration and the state, also has a sense of understanding. And we're very keen on it. If we have all learned that yesterday in Corfu, on the municipal council, local society was killed, we must respect this and not deal with this subject with such an amendment. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you. One last thing. We have said that we will stand up to this bill, which, as you have seen, is other positive, other negative, but I would like to make a warning. Because there are rumours that there may be an amendment concerning the sale of LARCO, if that happens we are very sorry, but we cannot vote for it either. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u192	Let us hope that no further amendments will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u193	I have three amendments here. Mr Christos Gokas, a special speaker from the Change Movement, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law, consisting of four parts, with sector-by-capital content. Its first part relates to the provisions on the authorisation, establishment and operation of waters, a sector which can contribute, by using this new means of transport in our country, to tourism and economic development, with new opportunities for access to all island areas and their tourist destinations and also to the service of the inhabitants of many island regions, which are often excluded from easy and rapid transport and of course on land. It therefore also has characteristics of social development. The development perspective for this sector, namely air transport on water surfaces, began in 2003 with the then government of PASOK and Minister Vérelis. In 2013 with n.4146/2013, in the middle of the economic crisis, it attempted to create a friendly investment environment. Two years ago, there was another law, Law 4568/2018, by the previous government of SYRIZA, which established a framework that was, in fact, forbidden by investment, with many restrictions on the provisions of its articles, only public sector participation, and now - and rightly so - licences are being granted to the private sector. This framework was characterised by great bureaucracy, required the signature of several different bodies for licensing procedures, ten joint ministerial decisions, etc. were foreseen, resulting in stagnation and in fact the Spirtzi Act remained inactive. We are therefore voting for laws, but we do not see any airports to date, apart from the first operation in the Ionian Islands, with waters in the Paxes, Corfu and Patras. It took some time after 2013. In this area bureaucracy is the greatest risk, but not the only one. There are obstacles from other persons involved in this area of passenger transport for the same destinations. The aim must be to achieve success in practice with the functioning of this important area of air transport modernisation. We believe that special attention should be paid to safety issues in the functioning of the waters, to maintaining the balance of ecosystems by protecting against pollutant emissions and the impact on various productive activities from any placement of neighbouring waters, such as for fish farming, which must be eight kilometres away from the water or vice versa. We need to see, where appropriate, the addition of one or two members to the inspection committee and assess the abolition of the monitoring centre in practice. There has been a debate and it has been agreed that there should be a period of validity of the authorisation to establish or establish and operate for up to five years. However, provision should be made for the justified extension, depending on the progress of the project or delays due to unforeseen causes or uncertain factors. Another chapter relates to water fields, which is an additional possibility of communication for points, particularly on the islands, where water construction is either difficult or economically inconsistent. In our view, the use of waterfields and aircraft on a regular flight, as provided for in the draft law, should be facilitated, as well as by the addition of aircraft for non-performing flights from one field to another. So, in the provisions, of course, together with these remarks, we are positive in principle. With regard to Part Two, there is an attempt here to regulate freight and passenger transport issues, the procedures for granting licences for lorries and buses, both private and public, as well as the organizational framework of the CBELs and arrangements are provided for the operation of urban transport at Attica and Thessaloniki. These issues should be addressed with a view to better meeting the needs of citizens, workers, the market, trade and production operators. We have several comments, objections, but also disagreements. There are ambiguities and we have specific proposals to which we shall refer. With regard to the truck owners sector, as referred to in Article 28, we have already pointed out in the Committee's discussions the proposal for an exemption from the payment of insurance contributions, when a vehicle is still in motion, but also the freezing of late payment. We have also proposed that the non-timely payment of a instalment of late payment should not result in the loss of regulation. In Article 30, our proposal is to broaden the composition of mixed control scales with members and other services, ADIs, public health services, food control, AIPs etc. We believe that the on-the-spot payment of the fine, in particular for foreign vehicles, should be introduced, and provision should be made for the traffic data of a public vehicle in accordance with the European Union regulations. As far as Article 33 is concerned, which provides for the modification of the CATEGORY organisational framework, first of all, in relation to the urban tariff zones, we propose that, as in the case of long-distance lines, a decision should be taken by the regional government after a single decision of the Minister. With regard to the CATEGORY Staff Regulations, i.e. 246/2006, Law 2963/2001, which laid down the legal framework of CATEGORY as public limited companies was enacted. This law has been in force and applied for twenty years and has made a decisive contribution to the modernisation and development of the country's urban and long-distance passenger transport. The CBS over the years have maintained their public character and are the main means of moving all the citizens of the country. As a result of this law, we had the dd 246/2006. The claims, therefore, that the CBS are now public limited companies and must operate freely, since when the current Regulation was adopted, the CBS had already been converted into public limited companies. Even the allegations that in the next two years - three years, the project will be awarded after competitive procedures under national and Community legislation will also make no sense, since the rules applicable to public limited companies and any other transport undertaking concerned will be uniform. Therefore, if we want real modernisation, the Staff Regulations should be reformed and adapted to the existing or future conditions, without creating insecurity for workers and without laying down provisions allowing for the arbitrary decision-making of the relevant administrations and boards, such as, for example, changing a position regardless of their status and without the consent of workers, or creating redundancies for workers through this development. We therefore propose that the Government amend the existing Staff Regulations, i.e. No 246/2006, and not abolish it. With regard to used tourist vehicles under Article 37 and the introduction of less than five years of age in order to put used tourist buses into circulation, we do not agree with this. We propose that there should definitely be specifications and parameters relating to the category of pollutants, that they relate to the technical control of tourist buses, and that there are also KTEOs, there are certified bodies that can define the suitability of traffic. We can no longer blame small and medium-sized tourist enterprises in the province any longer. The same criteria should provide for the maximum traffic for tourist buses. We do not agree with the twenty-seven years provided for in the bill. Regarding the urban line of the Coast - Preveza, it is necessary because there is increased tourist traffic, Preveza is very close to the Aktio. To solve, of course, the problems of responsibility for local transport, i.e. the local CATEGORY. In relation to the provision of transport to an operator, while it is another body, we must be careful and this must not be contrary to the existing general framework, because problems will arise in its implementation. In Article 38, concerning the award and concession of urban routes by the Athens and Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisations, the CBELs are the fact that there are major problems and the responsibilities of the previous government, SYRIZA, are enormously important in Thessaloniki. Athens has a smaller full-time deficit and alternatives to the metro. We are proposing, ladies and gentlemen, that these amounts intended for the Attica, Thessaloniki, but also regional CBELs, Kilkis, Halkidiki and Serres, be used by the agencies themselves for the maintenance of immovable buses, since they have infrastructure, workshops, trains, but use these resources and renting used buses from the agencies themselves. For us, the public nature of urban transport is self-evident, and there should be an integrated plan for providing safe and modern services with the required vehicles, that is to say, the supply of new, but also, where there is a need for evaluative and valuable staffing of organisations with staff. Of course, we are impressed that today this provision, which had been voted against by the New Democracy, that is to say Article 54 of Law 4568/2018, comes today as a proposal for a transport project by the government. So in this chapter we have reservations. In Part III we are positive about its provisions, because it is a positive development with regard to the granting of a temporary licence, particularly driving licences, particularly after the delays and suffering of citizens over the last few years. We hope, of course, that this temporary licence will be temporary until the new framework for driving licences is established. As far as the last part of the bill is concerned, provisions are included, most of which have not been placed in the public consultation. We have several reservations about some of them. We are quite concerned about it, and only some of the final state do not support it. And in this chapter, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, there are provisions that you have voted against as opposition. First of all, the Civil Aviation Authority defines the qualified commander with ambiguity, without specifying and specifying the selection criteria and, above all, without any progress being made in delaying the establishment and operation of this service. It is not helping to change the person who will become commander to the OAS unless the issue of competences is resolved. We also told the committee about “Athens S.A.”, the members who make up the board of directors must correspond to the importance of the replications that determine the nature of this city, its future and its competitive position. We therefore propose that the administration should also represent other bodies, not only the ministries and the majority of the municipality. To represent the Attica region as well as other bodies, such as the TEI, scientific associations of architects and citymen, and in particular, on a decisive basis. This link has to respond to the management of large and flagship renewal projects in the capital, which is not guaranteed by service and party representations. Also, there is another matter. We are talking about a final state, but by way of derogation from Law 4482/2017, which concerns the mobility of civil servants, there is provision for intra-corporate mobility for the movement of lawyers who are in permanent remuneration. The existing provisions refer to transfers and transfers only within general government bodies, not outsiders. Are these cases to cover and just cover some obligations? The argument that Article 33 of Law 4482 is to be applied is exactly what cannot be applied, since that provision concerns, firstly, officials and secondly, supervised by the Ministry of Institutions falling within the general government. So there is a problem with this article. We believe that, following the forecast for the extension to liquid fuel stations, there should be an extension of operation for all stations so that they can be settled and adapted, in operation, until 30 June 2021. Now, in relation to Article 65, where fines are laid down for interrupting the national roads, I would like to say that they are strict sanctions. Obviously this need has arisen on the occasion of Malakasa, where nothing has worked properly on the part of the state, the coordination services, resulting in the incredible suffering of thousands of citizens. The main issues are, however, firstly, whether there is a prevention and treatment plan - more or less known what can happen to make such an accident or weather interruption - and secondly, whether there is coordination. We shouldn't be looking for riot victims. With regard to the provisions of Articles 66 and 67, which relate to the Greek, first with Article 66, we recognise the need to transform the Submarine Missions Unit into the Scaramaga Naval Fort. With regard to the provision of Article 67, these arrangements are another sign of delays in the normalisation of outstanding items which in fact prevent the start of the implementation of the investment, which we want to go ahead with. However, there is concern, first of all, regarding the powers and the risk of having the opposite results from the regulation by adopting the Minister for Development's credentials and, secondly, the demolition costs - we have told the committee as well - where the transfer would precede demolition. It should therefore be ensured that the public is not penalised. These should be clarified, so that we do not need to simply meet communication needs, since despite the election announcements for a six-month period, no progress has been made in the Greek. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, we consider the provisions on water and driving licences to be positive. The operation of the waterways can be supported by domestic-external flights - and, indeed, in difficult accessible areas - rapid communication and another perspective in the field of air transport and tourism. That's why we're supporting her. The transport sector - lorries, tourist vehicles, urban transport, long-distance transport - has many issues on which fragmentation cannot respond in full. So we have some reservations about the provisions I mentioned on these chapters. We shall see the continuation of the debate and, where necessary, we shall also intervene with further proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u195	Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u196	You will allow me, Mr President, to make a reference to the amendments. Amendment No 151 concerns the internal redistribution of funds for the civil aviation agency's staff from EUROCONTROL receipts. I won't get into the detail of the forecast. We believe that in order for a real solution to the question of compensation for these specialities, there should first be a dialogue with the relevant parties. In any case, we cannot ignore the fact that the amendment creates frictions between workers, in various specialties, with a loss of income for workers, such as in telecommunications, but also in other sectors, and an increase in revenues for the electronics sector. We're not getting into the point. However, we are proposing that there should be a comprehensive reform through dialogue between everyone and that a uniform and stable framework should be established, from which there should be specific amounts of compensation and allowance for each sector and that we do not need every little and little to make arrangements on a case-by-case basis. We are proposing that the amendment should be withdrawn and that we should not give the impression of time-consuming arrangements. All views should be heard. All branches have their arguments and everyone has their own peculiarities. I now come to Amendment No 152 on CCEE stations. That's what came in, went out, got back in. We have no objection to the extension of the tanks until 31-12-2022. However, they must then function as private liquid fuel stations, with all the conditions laid down and the application of the legislation. As regards the possibility of operating public-use liquid-fuel stations from legal existing long-distance bus stations, also if the conditions and regulations relating to such activities are complied with, as is the case for other undertakings that can operate a public-use liquid-fuel service, and here we will have no objection to this, provided that these are respected. There was a last minute amendment last night. I would just like to ask a question, Minister. I come back to Amendment No 151. Given that we are very concerned about what is going on with this EUROCONTROL allocation system, what are these total amounts and what are they available to infrastructures and modernisation for air navigation and airport systems? For Amendment No 153, because it was late last night, I will make a first point. It removes the competence of local government to approve an elevation study, for openings, road configurations required for the approval of a building permit. And this responsibility is taken by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure for the specific investments provided for by Law 3982/2011. We believe that if the reason for the delay is that there is an overrun of the threshold for granting approval, the problem is solved. This is another issue, and it is another matter of the exercise of competence, which we should discuss. We will come back to this later on in the debate. Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u197	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Ms Manolakou Diamanto, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u198	We welcome today's gatherings in cities across the country by federations, labour centres and trade unions, together with pensioners and their organisations and farmers, against the 'Katrugalos-Brutsi' law that escalates the anti-insurance attack but also the mockery, which, with alchemys, promotes supposedly pension increases, when we have a reduction of EUR 200 million over last year and when in the vast majority - over 80% - there is an increase in contributions. Yes, we highlight the mockery and exploitation of workers. It hurts you. This is the absolute truth, but not just for the JRC. It is recognized by wider masses of the world. This anti-population policy also serves this bill. It overall promotes the further liberalisation of the institutional framework in the transport sector, with additional simplifications and acceleration of the procedures required in the various licenses, such as the one on the water, the settlement of outstandings - mainly to private investors - of state-owned property such as privateised TRAINOSE or the company "ELLINIKI SA" etc. Also, it gives time extensions and a total of additional benefits, since the capital benefits and not the people's needs, thus strengthening the unfeasible profitability of the exploitation of state-owned property. In fact, your provocative gifts continue with the ministerial amendments. You arrive at the point where you are bringing photographic provisions for a specific investment, violating decisions and the object of local administration. If your law does not serve the specific interests, the worse for the law. In fact, an amendment by Mr Georgiadis - his spirit is wrong, not his presence - and we are 'decide and order' thrown away the decisions of the Northern Corfu City Council which is responsible for it. At the same time, you are taking the object and competence and transferring them to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, in order to make a decision - approval - what you want. This is the dictatorship of capital. It is shameful and scandalous, and now this ministerial amendment has to be withdrawn and the decision of the inhabitants and municipal councils who want to protect the area of Reimitis in Kassiopi must be respected and the beaches must be for the Corfiot people and not for the jaws of the capitalists. So your bill is clearly in favour of business plans, i.e. private, with the backs of the public. Once again, the private-initiative story collapses, since the urban state enters into the front to open doors and windows for its private capital and profits. More specifically, in the first chapter on water routes, it is the continuation of the political liberalisation of transport by the SYRIZA Government. You keep on developing the capitalist profitability you both see. The aim is a single one. Ensuring new profitable fields for business groups, tailored to the new requirements created by the growth of the tourism industry. Naturally, the issue of water supply, although there has been legislation since 2013 and more facilities were given by SYRIZA to business groups, did not walk. Because there is competition with shipowners and also with the shipowners, but business investors want even more facilities - privileges and you are giving them it to ensure greater and easier profit. However, you also give privileges to fear that they undermine the safety of human life and the environment. At the same time, water areas and seabeds are bound, at a time when the area smells of barbecue. It extends the establishment and operation of waterways even in marinas, shelters and anchorages, which, together with the reduction in the number of technical documentation documents, especially those relating to the safety programme, but also the abolition of the establishment of the Water Monitoring Centre for the supervision of the aquatic area, together with the increase in the number of pairs of movements in the airlines, commits even larger water areas and undermines maritime safety. You may argue that these are simple constructions, but what you are doing is that in the face of the profits of the business group the safety of the aircraft is at stake and the avoidance of an accident, with what this entails. In fact, it is even a matter of the Civil Protection Service that you give it to individuals, namely the training of airport staff. On the occasion of this, I would like to tell you about the amendment which, in fact, as the previous rapporteurs have said, has created a civil service for the employees of the PSC because you did not discuss it with them before, that in other groups you are reducing what they have taken, you are giving them to others. You may also have manipulation targets for further privatization. However, it is certain that this amendment has caused a problem. From the outset we tell you that the construction of water infrastructures does not start for social needs, but for investment in accumulated capital and an increase in profitability and, above all, in the tourism sector. The Communist Party of Greece would see growth in water and hydroplanes on specific lines and as a complement to maritime transport, which must also be developed and covered all the time so that the remote islands do not run out. In the second chapter on lorries and transport operations, ten years have passed since L.4387/2010 that you have amended it. In this decade the majority of the industry that reacted and, above all, the self-employed public truck owners, since most of them have been displaced and the concentration of the transport project has been strengthened in the major business patterns. Only in the long-term transport sector with an annual turnover of EUR 550 million and some thirty thousand self-employed micro-enterprises and employees is seen as a crucial issue both for the Government and for the European Union and for the capital, so that the industry can open up even more, to redecorate the deck to existing or new older players. That's what you're doing. So in the various recast articles, certain malfunctions are corrected, but without changing the substance of the European Union regulations and the objective of concentration. Furthermore, with regard to the settlement of debts to social security institutions, etc., there are some changes in the evidence of insurance information and of the transfer of a public vehicle. Law and previous laws provided for it, since there is a huge problem for thousands of self-employed persons who are indebted and cannot transfer a licence. With the proposed changes, the problem as a whole is not dealt with. These are ballasts, a semimeter that will continue to keep locked up many self-employed who have no alternative but to transfer. We tell you that you could extend for five years to the professionals with a licence for public lorries licensed before 2010, amending Article 18(1) of Law 3888/2010. Do it to favor, breathe and these people. However, with the new measure of liberalisation - I am talking about buying a number of vehicles - you are making it easier for importers but also for hirers who are, above all, big companies and, of course, are not self-employed. As far as the CBS are concerned, you are literally satisfying the interests of the employer against workers. Increasing the profitability of entrepreneurs goes hand in hand - by reducing workers' rights and self-employed micro-enterprises working as drivers themselves. You therefore facilitate the recruitment and redundancies procedures for the staff of the CBC, the movements, the change of expertise. Eventually, the employer can handle the worker as serviced by the CCEE, as if he were an object and not a person with needs. And, of course, separate arrangements are also made for subsidies, vehicle renewals, so as to facilitate sale and so on. In short, in the bill the government is levelling up and eliminates labour relations in all transport sectors and especially in CBELs. Thus, today's Staff Regulations are repealed, which is a special and important tool for ensuring quality of services and for protecting road safety for a number of reasons, such as working time limits in particular for drivers. These are a shield against employers' arbitrariness to exceed eight hours, protect public transport and the safe movement of passengers. The abolition of the staff regulation and the new anti-dumping measures will therefore have a negative impact on road safety and I hope that we will be disproved. But also the use of the passenger's seat by a passenger, as demanded and pressed by the CBEL owners, will have consequences, because this position has no seating safety standards, it is folding and in the event of an accident the exit that operates and as a emergency exit will be sealed. Ultimately, SYRIZA opened the door and allocated the urban lines to the CCEEs and the current New Democracy Government takes the baton and directs the work to private individuals, bypassing the relevant laws and European directives, for which the employees of the OAS Thessaloniki had submitted their opinions. You decide and order, and otherwise you represent dialectics and with respect for urban democracy. When it's not your interest, you don't do that either. The point is that you degrade and degenerate public transport. The mess of transport operators in Athens and Thessaloniki is not accidental. It has been encouraged by all governments for years, so that, pursuant to the regulation of the European Union, the road to privatisation can be opened and at an opportunityal price. As far as Chapter III on driving licences is concerned, we do not disagree with temporary leave, but on the whole, we need to simplify driving procedures, unification of procedures and infringements, and, of course, the introduction of temporary leave, as the workers' representatives requested. Thus there will be parallel savings in human resources, at the same time, the circuits that torture candidate drivers quickly have their driver's license. As far as Articles 67 and 68 are concerned, they are unacceptable. Give gifts to demolition costs to the business group. Eventually, the people will still pay. It is not enough that a large area goes for the private investor's profitability - and you have all voted for it together, and SYRIZA - now you are reducing them and exempting them from demolition costs. I'm talking about "ELLENIC S.A.". At the same time, the people's needs are many and great. Let me say that small children of preschool education are sentenced to unhealthy containers or that special treatment schools are not personnel-free or that health centres are subordinated to doctors' specialties or not at all. Finally, I would like to say that in several articles we will be expressing ourselves with 'the present'. They are management, without changing your strategic objective, namely the liberalisation of transport, and not just, you also give other advantages to capital. We are therefore voting against the bill. At the same time, we believe that in order to meet the real needs of people moving across the territory, a single state transport operator with central planning is needed, taking into account the needs of mobility and not in the light of the profitability of consortia and business groups. Only thus can uninterrupted, cheap, modern, secure three hundred and sixty-five days a year be guaranteed transport, which will really cover the people's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Grade of Argyroupoli. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur for the Greek solution, Mr Villardos Vassiliou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my introduction, I shall refer in summary to three issues which, in my opinion, are outrageous, apologies that have nothing to do with the bill. Firstly, on the issue of yesterday's disgraceful far-right - a fascist, better-being SYRIZA Member of Parliament with regard to our special speaker, who has established that this is, in fact, an imminent left-wing party. I am really sorry to say this, hoping that it will not be repeated. Secondly, on the issue of banks, which we supported with EUR 44 billion three times, resulting in the burden of our public debt on this vicious amount, we eventually lost their ownership. Even worse, we supported them a fourth time with 17 billion euros deferred taxes that we will pay in their place and now with 12 billion euros in the HARAKLIS project, without most Greeks knowing that they will not only sell their loans to foreign speculators, but will also launch companies "hive down". That is, since the Deputy Minister did not deny it yesterday to the committee, they will transfer their most valuable data to subsidiaries, with the exception of only "NATIONAL" which can then be sold, with the result that the mother remains empty shell. Thus, we will lose all 17 billion euros, but above all any public hope to recover part of our investment. I think this is an incredible mockery of the Greeks, which, unfortunately, I do not have the time to explain, so that it can be better understood. Mainly now, with the beginning of May, a total of two hundred and fifty thousand real estates will change hands, noting that while under the Katseli Act there were hundreds of sixty thousand borrowers, sixty thousand applications have been made on the new government's platform and only three hundred and fifteen cleansings, and fewer than ten have been finalized. Instead of creating a state-owned company for the management of red loans, such as the United States in 1933 - something that we have stressed several times in the past, while we have it in our programme - with much less money and a much greater success, they have preferred to give multiple amounts, lose banks, as well as confiscate and auction the houses of the Greeks, invoking various nonsense for reasons they know. They did not even do what Iceland launched in 2008 with the banks, bailing out the state and the citizens of bankruptcy. However, he had a true president who spoke with the citizens, neither with the government nor with the parliament. And thirdly, on the issue of the scandalous pollutants of the German car industry, where the public could demand around EUR 30 million and private individuals over EUR 100 million, while all the ministries to which we addressed written and timely questions said the Ministry of Justice unauthorisedly and lastly. In other words, the New Democracy prefers to lose so much money rather than ask VOLKSWAGEN, such as the United States, Canada, Poland and Germany itself. It's an unprecedented slavery, except, of course, if anything else happens. However, a responsible associate of the Minister has confirmed that this is a political scandal, but he could not do anything. In conclusion, I believe that at some point the citizens will come together from the ten years of shock and from the suffering without the end that our governments have condemned them, so they will demand the accountability of all those responsible for a truly independent justice. In the draft legislation now, we fully agree with the chapter on the waterways. Article 2 does not specify the authorisation of the special installations necessary for the maintenance of waterplanes or their specific constructions in the context of the implementation of environmental impact legislation. We analysed it in every detail in the committees. In addition, the country's safety of illegal goods such as drugs, and of unwanted passengers coming directly from destinations abroad, is not achieved with the mentioned water infrastructures, especially in private, since safety services, equipment, surveillance and controls are not in place or cannot replace those at international airports in the country. The only appropriate solution here is not to allow seaplane flights from and from abroad, but only internal flights, where border control has already been carried out by the designated gates of our country that comply with the safety standards. In addition, it is not mentioned anywhere on which conditions for construction in ports support facilities will be built on the rivers, since land use in ports has not been legally defined. In Article 6: Unfortunately, and in this bill, the water supply service does not ensure the avoidance of time-consuming, bureaucratic processes, since authorisation and operation involve a large number of public services, while this service does not operate independently and independently of the approval of other relevant public services. The right thing would be to institutionalise first of all a single digital map of the country with the prohibited water-creating areas, so that the investor concerned knows from the outset in which water-strength he can invest in their construction, without intermitting dozens of approvals from other services, such as from the Port, from the Armed Forces, from the Hydrographic Service, etc. In Article 7 now: there is no reference to the type of waterplane, which will serve the waterway concerned, nor to its passenger traffic. Article 11: There is no provision in the Committee of Inspections regarding a representative from the Environment Inspectorate. In Article 19, we proposed that all Greek permanent residents of the remote islands of the Aegean should be exempted from the special fee. That would be the least. In Article 24: the total number of aircraft movements in the aquatic field indicates that it may not exceed six pairs, i.e. landing and decontamination, during the same aviation day. This is an arbitrary restriction on flights that should not exist, how much more so when it causes unfair competition between shipping companies or even airlines, as well as companies operating in waterplanes. Finally, we referred to the very serious problems that exist with regard to the PSC and the independent PSC, where it appears that the Minister is either ignoring basic legal issues or deliberately bypassing No 4427/2016. He must, however, know that if the bill is passed as it stands, he will have to amend it very soon. The reason for this will be that the PSO does not have an Airport Directorate with responsibility for the issue of the licence. It only has, under Article 58 of the mentioned law, a Directorate-General for Water Operation. The AMP is supervised and licensed by the AMP, otherwise there would be no reason to create an independent authority as a airline auditor in general. In the second chapter now, which concerns arrangements for road, freight and passenger transport: we have to stress again that in recent years many transport companies have migrated to Bulgaria, while it is estimated that eight thousand Greek carriers are taking part in companies based in this country, obviously for mainly fiscal reasons, as well as for lower contributions, charges and vehicle safety, while a similar phenomenon is found in Serbia, Skopje and Albania. Here we are faced with a major problem of the Greek economy, which must be solved immediately, noting that they have migrated a total of 15 000 trucks carrying goods and Greece, with a turnover of more than EUR one and a half billion each year and with thousands of jobs. With regard to the articles now in Chapter II, we have the impression that the introduction of Euro 5 buses from Germany is being withdrawn, as is the case with cars. Our suspicion is that 'VOLKSWAGEN' has announced a programme to replace 'Euro 4' and 'Euro 5', with an incentive to exchange EUR 500 to 7 000, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here we cannot recall the fact that the German automobile industry is not claiming compensation again, let alone when the New Democracy Government is in favour of measures of the climate change movement, where the compensation could be made available to encourage the purchase of new clean cars - this is what the United States is doing - and not to make Greece a cemetery of those who are withdrawing Germany, supporting the country that has condemned us in the memoranda. In relation to Article 33 on the organisation and operation of public passenger transport by bus, we believe that much of its individual articles are about the problems of OSH and the shortcomings of its fleet to be covered by the CBS. In this respect, we have seen that there is a concern about competition between the KTV tourist transport that also has municipal transport and private companies. On the basis of the example of the OSH, we have serious reservations about how to operate in practice some of the things that are mentioned and analysed in committee. We believe that, in Article 35, the smuggling of smuggled fuels is being facilitated, even though the conditions are being created, even though all governments are claiming that they are trying to curb smuggling and fraudulent fuels. In this regard, it is possible for the platforms of the CBEL and the tourist buses to be installed uncontrolledly, without any authorisation or licence being issued by any operator, with unlimited capacity tanks. Evidently, this will be the first step so that there will be a corresponding liberalisation in the rest of the private establishments that are equipped with vehicles. In Article 37 now, special tourist bus arrangements are set as their age limit the twenty-seven years of operation. In provincial areas, however, unlike tourists directed at other traffic and income data, there may be no financial possibility to replace older cars. There should therefore be something about these cases, as would be the subsidies for barren lines or other measures. Additional restrictions are placed, as regards second-hand goods, which must be from within or from countries of the European Union and up to five years. In our view it is wrong, since it may be cheaper to buses of a decade or from third countries. That's expected. In the third chapter on temporary driving licences, in Articles 42 to 48, a licence is essentially required for almost all categories of motor vehicles. In this respect, because there are now new categories of vehicles, such as electric bicycles that develop significant speeds, it should be clarified what it means to moped in relation to electric bicycles. Furthermore, how will the rental law apply in practice to tourists? That is, if they are not required in their own countries for such small categories, they may not have and may not be able to rent. In the fourth chapter now, Article 50 states that the commander of the Civil Aviation Authority must be in general and vaguely a holder of a Higher Education Institution of the national or foreign institution. In other words, someone who has a degree from the Department of Theatre Studies at the University of Athens could cope with this cognitive subject as head of government. We believe that at least a degree should be required in relation to air technology and aviation science. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] In Article 67 on the arrangements for existing buildings and facilities within the Hellenic Kosmas, we need to know what amounts the state will be charged for investing in the Greek, while we wonder when there will be a final project by distributing land and not periodic amendments or publications in the media. One of the most recent shapes here that are constantly changing is what we're going to testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are therefore asking ourselves, by closing down, whether there is a fragmented approach and depending on the debates with investors, which would naturally be unacceptable. This is an article which, of course, we shall vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u201	He has the floor, Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. A key issue that arises from this draft law on the waterways is the unregulated placement. So I'll start with that. We have, in fact, a deregulation, where any rule concerning the right of individuals to make their own water routes, is being catalysed and there is a scene that anyone can, whenever they want, place a water route, in fact do their own water road, either has a large hotel, or it has a marina and so on. That creates a problem. In a country without spatial planning, we will have an unregulated placement of an activity. Are we going to adjust it when we see the results of the unregulated placement? We are even abolishing the monitoring centre which is supervised by the water area, which is what controls this activity for the development of water. This, if you like, takes us far from European experience, far away from Europe. For this government which is declaring convergence with the central European countries, this deviates us. There are too many issues, such as what is going on with ports which do not have GDP, what is going on with the installations. Article 2 describes very few things. In essence, everything is assigned to ministerial decisions and joint ministerial decisions, with very few standards. So we see a bill that comes down in order to facilitate any institutional framework there, a bill leading to deregulation. I shall go a little further into some of the points of view, which other speakers have mentioned. In particular, Article 11 refers to the members of the Waters Commission, where we have representatives of the Airport Department of the Ministry of Transport, which has been abolished by Law 4427/2016, and now is responsible for the APA, as is the DPA Security Directorate now repealed and responsible. There are several such gaps and mistakes in the bill, as if the author had not taken into consideration Law 4427/2016. In Article 20, likewise, everything that is defined by the commander of the FMC has already been transferred to the FMC and specifically to the Civil Aviation School, the FMC. On thicker issues, now, in Article 49, for the organisation of the Civil Aviation Authority, there has been a competition and there are successors just to serve the independent authority. And here comes the government to add a typical qualification to the standards, in point B, in essence, the excellent knowledge of a foreign language of the European Union and especially of English. All those who have succeeded in the competition meet this requirement. But by changing the terms of the competition, in fact, the government reappears it. So in practice he wants to have a competition again, even though there are successors who even meet these conditions. What concerns us in particular is the reduction of time incompatibility. In other words, they are incompatible with the same article, which is incompatible with the avoidance of duplication. What are they saying? They say that these people who control the airlines, which control all these issues, which mean money, should at least have not been engaged in air transport for at least ten years, that is not to say they had taken part in any position related to the Civil Aviation Service and other positions. These incompatibilities are reduced, by this law, from ten to five and sometimes at three. And we are very concerned, because it is precisely reducing protection, creating conditions, if you like, and interactive, for people who have until recently had a professional relationship with the industry and are now suddenly reintroducing into the independent authority to control the industry. And that's a big mistake. In Article 50, we also identify several problems. It is stated that the opinion of the Supreme Health Committee of the Air Force on relevant questions from the AAS or the PSC for air traffic controllers is submitted by both the officials of the industry and is submitted exclusively to the commander of the AAS. In other words, we have the PSC, which supervises the PSC and other bodies, and the employees of the PSC, who are the auditors and the PSC, will be the ones who will have to pass through the PSC, which they control, to approve their request if there is a loss of hearing and various other issues and whether they will receive a specific allowance, which is quite high. It was 190,000 and the government increased it to 380,000. So this will be decided by the controller if the auditor is entitled to this allowance. You can understand that an incentive to interact is again being created. I will go to the themes of the Greek, however, which as you really know about the Mera25 is an investment, precisely because it symbolizes the service of the parasitic oligarchy. Here, unfortunately, we see the government once more locked in its election declarations, that this is a flagrant investment and the bulldozers will enter the Greek the next day the New Democracy will take the government. Now, as I will explain, they want to put bulldozers in the Greek with our own money. What's the problem? Why don't the investment go on in the Greek? It is the financial stimulus of LAMDA. To remember what has happened when he submitted the offer for the Greek "LAMDA" had losses of 51m euros, equity of just EUR 330m, debt liabilities of 593m euros and 189m in immovable property marked for loans. In this state of economic distress was the "LAMDA" when it submitted an offer for the Greek. It is struggling to increase capital, which is unsuccessful, and calls on other subcontractors to take part in the projects. But there is an obsession to exclude any other investor from taking pieces of projects itself and so it fails. The case of ‘HARD ROCK’ for Casino is known. So right now the government wants to show, even with our own money, that the bulldozers are entering the Greek and why does it want to do so? Because the share of the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ is threatened. Of course, the account of the government and Mr.Georgiadis about the emblematic investment in Greek is also threatened. Article 67 of the Multinomial Plan on Waterways also includes the Greek, which initially legalises all existing facilities, in a way that is legally demolished, through the Ministry of Development, and after the adoption of the Ministry of Development and Investment's documents, which will be licensed and licensed to demolition. Now, what's going on? Theoretically, these demolitions take place before the sale of the shares of "ELLENIC S.A." by an investor. LAMDA DEVELOPMENT or HELLINIKON GOLD S.A. But there's a suspicious term in the bill. After a certain period of time, small, even if the "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" has not done anything about demolition of the buildings in the Greek area, it does not have the slightest sanction, but the obligation is transferred to this public company, which is "ELLINIKI SA", and at its own expense, which, on the basis of its rules, are the costs of the Greek State, will be demolition. So we're still giving Mr. Latsi 70m euros. And Article 68 amends Law 4638, with regard to the ratification of your act of legislation, even worse. It abolishes the automatic delivery of public spaces to even the bad management body of SYRIZA and you seem to have unconditionally given the public spaces to the investor. Since we are talking about airports, however, I would like to talk about an issue that is at the moment burning Crete and should burn all of Greece. It's Castelli's airport. It's a monument of irrationality really. What we do is build a new airport that will be able to bring Crete further away from Europe, farther from Greece. The flight time will be increased by 15 minutes. People should take forty minutes extra car to get to Heraklion. The distance is forty kilometers, ladies and gentlemen. So we will increase the distance from Heraklion for one hour, either from Athens or from Europe, to do what? For an airport that can extend to its location. Since the Prime Minister has said that it is our goal to tackle climate change, the cost, Prime Minister, for climate change, will be at least a hundred and fifty thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide due to these fifteen minutes, while destroying unique habitats, where we have the last pairs of vultures, grooms, in Europe. And you have not been authorised by the European Union to do that. The European Investment Bank awaits a responsible statement stating that habitats will not be struck. Airplanes will pass right above Asterousia, just above the only place in these vets and protections, which is in the European Union's Red Book. From what we are learning, in the Council of State, where the decision is avenged tomorrow, what the Ministry said is "do not matter, will be disturbed by the noise, and will go to some adjoining mountain". That's funny stuff. We take out two hundred thousand olives, twelve thousand acres, while infecting 1.8 million olives, bathed with kerosene. The concept of water planning is abolished. Without a spatial framework in practice the airport is located in Kastelli. We will be vertically negative to this bill for all its provisions. Where we consider the provisions to be positive, we will support them, but in principle we are 'in principle'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The circle of rapporteurs and special speakers has been completed. We will give the President of Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos the floor, and then we will proceed to the list of speakers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the Western theory they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall forty-nine students and students and four teachers attending the 5th Cardits High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the water roads, but I am in the unpleasant position - and I have never expected it - with a New Democracy Government to have in front of me a Leaf of the Government - I will not say names in order not to throw away some - which I shall submit in the Minutes and in which a notice has been published, where a translator recruitment is defined as an obligation 'the Macedonian language'. Enjoy them! You who would change the Prespecies Agreement, to SYRIZA's FEK that goes on, mention the "Macedonian language". You're the same as the gentlemen here. Rejoice! In a SYRIZA Flight that continues on your own government. I'm stopping here so the story doesn't get confronted. I am just ashamed, because I never expected the New Democracy to suffer and commit such a national crime. I'm sorry, but that's the truth. It's a national crime. It started a story. I don't know what we'll find in front of us, but the next generations will treat us as saying national debt. I'm afraid so. And it's your fault. You promised a lot and you did little. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're going to the water roads now, which is a serious matter. We have been positive from the very beginning in this direction, Mr Ministers of Government. I think we should copy Canada, which has a long and long presence on the water routes. He's got a few gaps. With regard to the bureaucracy you want to press, I see that there is even bureaucracy now, because the roles and responsibilities of many services are not clear. Our rapporteur has said very well about the digital map. As far as Article 19 is concerned, we have proposed something very simple: instead of 5%, 2.5% will go to port management bodies. It's very simple and it can be done. We propose discharge at the end in favour of the public 10 euros for islands with inhabitants of less than three thousand, Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u205	We did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u206	Did you put it? Very good. It's a good suggestion. I am pleased that national consultation is finally taking place, because in the words you were good. I mean, that the islands with few inhabitants should not pay these fees, also have opportunities to pay less. I'm coming to the tourist buses. I won't say anything more, but I'll talk about Thessaloniki. Thessaloniki is facing a huge problem with the buses of OSTH. It's a city abandoned as a whole by all of you, by all governments. You are constantly interested in Athens. Athens acquired a monster metro - beastly I would say - with the suburban reaching Corinth, going to Patras, then going to Kalamata. Metro, we still don't see. 'We'll see. It is a metro, of course, which is not a metro. It's for people to laugh. It's ten miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u207	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u208	He's going to Kalamata, Mr. Lambropoulos. They'll bring it to you there too! Listen to me. Greece for some, it's under Tempus. For us, Greece starts from the Trinidad and ends in Cyprus. It doesn't stop in Crete. It continues until Cyprus, because it's Hellenism, it's Greece. Where there is Hellenism, for us it is Greece. The heart of the Greeks is ringing. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I would like to say that in OSH there is a huge problem, atrocities of decades. I wish you, Minister, to resolve this, because Thessaloniki has terrible problems. Route forty-five minutes and fifty minutes, and if the bus comes, which is a radar, which from everywhere, there are no air conditioners, there is no heating, there is nothing, people are stacked. We have common acquaintances, who never pay illegal immigrants, migrants, refugees, and we also have jambads of our own. All these problems, which are the paths of an entire people and decades, I hope you will resolve them, because transport is not a social asset. Oh, no. I disagree. Transport is not a social asset. You're making a mistake. It is necessary and especially for the low layers, which do not have the ability to get cars and go from here and for cities like Thessaloniki that do not have the metro you know very well that urban transport is the most. Let's not be fooled. Without them, the city of Thessaloniki cannot function. For those who have gone to Thessaloniki - I imagine you've all gone downtown - to get down from Cordelio to Charilau, you need two buses. To get down from Naples to Harilau, you need three buses. To understand some things, which, unfortunately, are unthinkable. In Article 67, Mr President-in-Office of the New Democracy, we are radically opposed. You law arbitrarily to demolish them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u209	You just said that you disagreed with the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u210	The President is the best president in Parliament in recent years. He's widespread, and most importantly I'd say he's got a sense of humor and charming all the time. As a Continent! I have the following question: This Greek that was going to start in September, went in October, went in December, took Genaris. They were building it all day, at night it was demolished. Now you try fast track to demolish the arbitrary after you legalize them. You are not telling us, of course, who will pay for all this. Nine hundred and sixty - year - old animal tumors are recognised as legally existing and even says they will be demolished. Who's gonna pay the demolition? Latsis? I can see some grass! Latsis is interested in taking again the well-known ELPE, he is interested in getting free jobs, as he did with the Greek, he is interested in making a casino with his company, but investment will not see when. Trust me. These fewer people, the 'harks', as I call them, are not entrepreneurs. The Greek oligarchs are parasitic businessmen. It's a crime you did with the Greek and we'll find it in front of us. Some of us may not find it, but some of us who are fifty or forty or thirty will find it in front of us, the monstrosity you're going to do in the area. In any case, we will go to the most important, in my view, because it is also about the economy. There is the issue of red loans. Do you know what you're going to do? You're going to make a new Spain. Seeing people dragged from their hands and feet and taking them out of their homes. I'm telling you, honestly. You're going to make a mass outfit of people. It's a disgrace. It's not these people's fault because they went bankrupt. The Greeks aren't cheating. I don't understand the New Democracy culture. You've eaten a fairy tale, a butcher candy. You know, at the house of the hanged man you can't talk about rope. When your party owes 300, 400 million in loans, how do you call a cop to the man who owes 100 grand? When PASOK - you and everyone - owe you, what do you call "fucking" the Greek who, I repeat, is not his fault? They're not all the same. When someone took 2,000 euros along with his wife and now takes 700 or 800 euros and has a loan of 1,000 euros he cannot cope. It makes sense. It's not that hard to give a solution. Copy the Greek Solution program, which is nothing important. We took the 1933 story in America with the red loans and incorporated it into Greek reality, so we can solve a problem and get a profit out of history. But it is very much your dependence on the funds. Your own people, on your side, have something to do with these, the top ministers of yours, but also from this wing of ministers. Congenitals and friends are in the funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u211	What Ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u212	The Siufa family, Admiral. Please very much. Boss, the place. I like him because he was an excellent president of the House. Don't make me say names and judge people. Not that I'm scared. It's a family, the Sioufa family, which had an affair with a fund-receiving company. Don't you know that, Admiral? Look a little bit longer. Or the family, relatives of Mr. Tsakalotou. You tell me, there's no family responsibility. I agree with you. However, I did not see any condemnation from the people of these practices. I condemn my brother and my family who drinks the blood of the Greek people. They don't. That's what makes me angry. And they're making baby virgins. 'Who are they?' They're asking. They don't know! Don't you read the papers? If you don't read newspapers, what can I do to you? It's my fault? Look a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u213	We don't trust them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u214	We don't trust them and nobody trusts the newspapers. Don't be fooled, but there's evidence. You know, it's easy. With a phone, you learn everything. I will tell you this: Make this crime: You want to get people out of the inside, give them a pocket, which will not be for the rent of a 30-square studio. So someone who had a house of 100 square feet would call him: take 200 euros and stay in a basement! You guys are nice! Do you know why you are ruling Greece? You govern a country that has citizens and these citizens need solutions. So when you cannot resolve such a matter that is of major importance because it is also a social and political issue, then I do not understand what governance we have. You're just command managers. As for red loans, I repeat very simple: how much does a fund want? With 3% won't you get the loan? Give the borrower 15%. You'll tell me it can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u215	We did, but you didn't support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u216	This is not the case, Mr Katrin, as we cannot collect the 300 and 400 million that your parties owe. That's not how it works. And with the ranger and the constable! There's nothing going on. I told you: Copy our programme. It's easy to do. That's our proposal. Because we're talking about poor payers, it's not just your parties. Do you know that there are opinions from the Legal Council of the State - I have them in front of me, I will table them in the Minutes of Parliament - and while the Bank of Greece has financial capacity, it continues to pay no exceptional contribution to its profits? Because the Bank of Greece, which has profits, does not pay for an extraordinary contribution - the biggest batter! - and HICPIA for her real estate. He's not paying anything, he's not paying an emergency contribution! Those who don't believe it, let me come to my office, give you the laws, give you both their denials and their documents, which I have here in front of me. I'm telling you this, to understand that, if you want to find scumbags, you can find a lot of batters between the company you're doing. Here the casinos owe the FBI 110 million euros. They owe insurance contributions and you don't go after them. You're chasing the crusader, who poor guy could hire a man one day and he runs to pay a fine. I don't understand your logic. On the other hand, Mr Ministers, it is this 'Diselgate' scandal. While there are countries such as Canada, Poland, Germany, they have collected hundreds of millions of euros for this scandal, we are the only country that, because we are a protectorate in Germany, did not do so. Do you have them in your pockets? It is the 'Diselgate'. I say that to the ministers. They are the fines they paid for the "expressed" of your good German friends, the ones with the pollutants that America and justice are still chasing them. We don't, nobody talks, no prosecutor, no government. Nobody. Quiet, everybody. We are talking about hundreds of millions of euros, which we could take and give to the low social strata. It's just stuff. But you don't do that either. In common, you serve and serve, unfortunately - I will say it - the oligarchy and the few-government, and that is what upsets me. And the fact that I'm being uneasy about it, because it's a government that would theoretically have a sign different. On the other hand, I would like to say this because on the channels you've controlled, you've gathered all the so-called inter-ethnicists, not to say any other conversations that start with "p", "p... words", because they tell us everything disgusting that goes down to their head. Because we're out of our minds with EastMed, I'll tell you something very simple. Turkey, gentlemen, claims and if you want to know, tell your internationalists to learn about South Med. This will be the pipeline that will become and will be wronged by Greece. You run here, you run there, you run there like Vega, without doing anything serious. I tell you this from now on, so you can understand it, because it will be late in a while. Look at the South Med story. The main one: don't you dare go to The Hague like this. Because the key word will be "energy", whether there is an influence on the coasts, the islands and the Turkish coast, in relation to the AEZ. Remember, Mr Voutsi, we are here, because as many times as the people of the New Democracy have fooled me - the word 'effect', when the gentlemen are going to The Hague. I warn them to listen with the word 'effort', the international term, which is in favour of Turkish positions. And so they go to The Hague as they go, it is certain that she is also set, to lose our national sovereignty in the Aegean and Kastelorizo. It's a warning. On the other hand, it's a shame to hear Erdogan say this. I don't want to spit on this. I don't believe Erdogan, believe me. I'm the last here in Parliament who believes the fascist, the chauvinist Erdogan. So she goes out and says we sat like good kids, so she didn't - she says - challenge the Imia this year. It's a coincidence we had peace. Isn't it a little strange to have peace because Erdogan warned you? I'll say. I don't want to believe it's true. I believe the Prime Minister has no secret agenda, but I warn the Prime Minister that if there is a secret agenda and neither the PASOK nor SYRIZA nor the JRC nor the MERA25 nor us will find national support from us, because with secret agendas and secret agreements the Greek Solution cannot agree. Because we are vertically opposed to any co-existence and co-management agreement in the Aegean. It's over and out. Let's get this over with the secret agenda. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Of course - to finish and not to eat too much of your time - you have unfortunately invested in the United States. I say 'unfortunately' because you probably do not understand that there are honestly no friends, there are only interests. I challenge and invite all of you to read Thucydakis, the Miles and Athenians dialogue. It is clear that there are friends, common origin, religions, gods and all of this. There's only interest. So I'm reading Michael Pombeo's announcement. I'm still waiting for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to bring me Pompeo's letter with the date upstairs. I know what I say when I talk in here, because the Foreign Minister 'had done it with light jumps.' I pushed him to give me the date letter and there was no date in Pompeo's letter. He says, "We are standing on the side of our naval ally, Turkey. We fully support Turkey's operations, self-defense energy as retaliation". All this for Syria, ladies and gentlemen. I want you to understand that the United States and you are making a tragic mistake. It seems that Greece is the American 'usable idiot'. Unfortunately, we are the "usable idiot" of the wider region. I'm sorry to say that. Unfortunately, you're acting like this. And the worst thing when I hear the Prime Minister say at an event about this festivities of 1821 that Greece from a small Ottoman province became the current state, it's probably the Prime Minister's short historical memory. Greece was Byzantium and if the Turks were not imposed they would never have an Ottoman empire. Greece had an empire thousands of years ago and it will be there again, as long as there is Greek leadership that will not call Greece the Greek Ottoman province a small one. Understand it, it's not verbal mistakes. You are cultivating defeat, unfortunately, even with such expressions. Of course, when the Prime Minister read the text he was given to him, because I see the bodyprint and how it moves in communication. When he read the text, he made it difficult. The editor was probably from Doku School - not stoko, Doku - of the well - known view of collapsing. Well, these views are the least - I will say it directly - stupid and stupid, not to say treachery. I also have to say with great pleasure that, at last, the "North Macedonia", as you call it, will be joining NATO next month. Give it a hand. France finally backed up. The Prime Minister was begging her to back with the veto. Finally, the veto from France and you will veto on other issues. I'm talking about knowing everyone and the part he plays in here. Because, other things, you've been election-on-electioning and other things you've been post-electioning. Also, closing down to say the following. I ask the President of Parliament something that concerns good colleagues in this House. We don't tell you traitors, not brokers or stalinosfascists. I'm talking about some people in here. We're not telling you you're the traitors of Greece. We want you to let us love our country, we want you to let us love our Greece and the Greeks. We were elected by Greek citizens to protect the country's constitution and, above all, to love and be for the benefit of the Greek people, what is taxed. That is why our motto is "First Greece and first Greeks". That is our view. We may disagree and say what we want politically, but 'fast-fascism, fascism, Nazism' in here must not be heard. It is a blessing of God that the Greek Solution exists for many and various reasons, because it has a patriotic view, a Greek view. We are eminent and united and specific to what we say. So, begging for the next time something like this happens, like what happened the other day: it will have to be anyone who has complexes, it is confusing or I don't know what else and it has been repulsive, with all the Greek people now and with our own political platform and agenda. We have never caused, we have never done anything extreme in here and we will never do, because we are people who are serious, entrepreneurs assembled and most importantly, I will tell you raw -- we are Greeks who love Greece. Let us do this, nothing more and nothing less. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] No one in here is more philanthropist than anyone else. Because if some of you think you're more philanthropists, I'll tell you one thing. How many of the people you love in your homes, how many of the people you want to host? And who are they? I'm closing here to finish the story. I want one out, one up here, right now standing up and saying: I'm home to fifteen of them - tell me - and I premium them and I pay them and I give them money. One to come out and say it. But there isn't, unfortunately, because you're all safe being philanthropists. It's a philanthropist who makes money out of his pocket and pays for the wrongful, grounded, homeless, whether Greek or foreign. In my opinion, you're not the philanthropists. I think you have a racist concept of Greeks. You think we should help everyone else and leave the Greeks on the sidelines. I am not expressing it in an extreme way, and I am expressing it mildly, because I want us to be mild and serious in here. Finally, I will show you this here: NGO "Arce". They are dealing with refugees and illegal immigrants again. They're fired from the NGO - this company, non-governmental organization, they don't get money - paid, gentlemen - is a poster circulating in Athens - they're firing people. I didn't see any of SYRIZA complaining about this thing. I didn't see anyone say, "What's up, guys? Why do you fire people?" So, this NGO is a business, because it has employees, whom it pays and fires them for no reason. You don't care about this. Yesterday I heard the man from Lesvos say something very simple because I have friends from Germany who work in NGOs. They are criminally convicted and do social work in Greece, Mr President. You know that? And Spanish and German. My "my friend" Hans, together with two of his friends, have been convicted of stealing and working in Lesvos for public work. German court decided and sent them here. I don't understand how we have criminals among them. But that's not what you're saying. You don't say it, unfortunately. I have heard SKAI today, and I am glad that - and Mr Portasalte has never called us - it is a great deal of work, it has now begun to see them a little wrong - which said 'Saint immigrants on uninhabited islands to solve the problem and life in poachers'. When we talked about it, we were overreacting. Now that they're saying it, but now they're convenient and that's our problem. Turning off to say this. Whatever you do - I say directly now - if you do not look among you which ministers have anything to do with NGO or have anything to do with such funds, you will be the same with all those who have ruled, you will be rotten until the medal. I don't want to believe it because there are young people who have a different understanding. Turning off to say this. I said about Mr. Hatzidakis, and I'll say something in public once again. The Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has had an affair with an NGO in the past, but it has nothing to do with refugees. I'll tell you something. When you make a mistake, he really wants great courage to say: I was wrong. As far as I am concerned, it seems that this NGO has nothing to do with refugees, but with other issues. He was a member of the NGO and he is, but it has nothing to do with refugees. Because mistakes are made - people are - but it takes dignity and pride to say that I might have made a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u217	Before giving the floor to the first speaker from the list, Mr Voutsis, the former President of Parliament for some intervention, asked for the floor. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u218	Since there was a challenge in this respect before, I would like to say that in this Chamber rhetoric - and I said it the day before - on smuggling people - emigrants and illegal immigrants - for four years and not because there was another link between forces within this House, but shared consent from all the parties of the democratic arch had been set off. Today, of course, as the rhetoric comes back - and the rhetoric questions are exactly what we have read for years - 'if you want foreigners, if you want immigrants, refugees, get them home'. This is what I think, in addition to being dangerous things - in the sense of rhetoric - produces serious concerns in a country which has a problem, because we are a portal of Europe, on a subject that the whole of the world is talking about and will be talking about in a few years - and climate refugees by dozens and hundreds of millions of millions that we will have - and I want to say this. The Greek society, Mr President, since the 1990s and 2000, has hosted and incorporated into different conditions at that time - not because they were coming from Turkey - about six hundred thousand - and you remember it very well - especially neighbours, Albanians, but also from the former Eastern European bloc in the homes, in auxiliary jobs, in other jobs. But also within the crisis, the waves of solidarity - I repeat across the board - of all people sensitive to the democratic arch - and not on a party basis - on our islands and on the continental torso were extremely large. There was indeed a glamorous international presence and a picture of this solidarity both in their homes and in nearby hotels and in facilities and food, and with support in both the streets and everywhere. These are the facts. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Member and former President of Parliament is ringing.]] Obviously, everyone has the right to have their own rhetoric and opinions. They are completely respected, when even the people have parties, which have been voted on with openness. However, I repeat, because there has been a challenge that one should stand up on these issues, we are answering them quite rightly. See yesterday's communication from the ECHR, the National Committee on Human Rights, which has within all bodies - obviously a national committee - dealing with rights in Greece. It's a detailed announcement that rings not a bell, but a bell! He says: Immediate relocation to the continental trunk with 1% by law - what is officially in the current government's programme - obviously in consultation and in agreement and with our ears open to problems with local societies - about how it can be done to get our islands out of the way and to get out of the exhortations, indirect urges, ears, violence. For you saw the day before yesterday - I am closing, Mr President, and I am sorry if I have exceeded my time - again 'introduction orders', at the same time that the Golden Dawn trial is going on and in two months it is over. They had the patent of the "invasion orders" with eighty two incidents and we had been here eleven, twelve, thirteen in here, and then we didn't understand anything, but Greek had to be murdered, and it had to be on the world Israeli Council in the United States, when Mr Samaras was there, to raise a question of starting the process in connection with the leadership of the Golden Dawn. There are again "invasion orders" of extreme right-wing right-wings, which the Mayor of Moria also said he didn't know anyone. They were coming out and terrorized, not only migrants and refugees, if they wanted to take a walk from the village - slowly, after everything that happened - but also the inhabitants themselves and threatening all the shops where they used to hang there and refugees and immigrants. We do not give our rhetoric in here - we do not do it, but I believe that all parties in the democratic arch should behave - on an extremely important issue on which local societies are also in pain, but which must be resolved on the basis of international law, the international rules and the commitments of the country. Let us not give food, like what was heard the day before yesterday, that 'blood will be shed'. "The blood shall be spilled, blood poured," he heard. I spoke with my colleague from the Greek Solution who had this rhetoric. We're not panels, we're not presenters, they're not channels. The "blood will be spilled" when it is heard in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament finds ears that can be heard either because they are salvaged minds or because they have racist perceptions. It's dangerous. I beg your pardon for the speech, but because the President directly told me to raise the point of view, I considered it my duty to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Voutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Velopoulou, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u222	It was heard of 'invasion orders'. I want to reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u223	He made a reference to a reality we've experienced in the past. Are you now asking for the reason for the 'invasion orders'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u224	I'm generally asking why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u225	Strictly for a minute, Mr. Velopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u226	Because I am the only one in here - I imagine there are not many - who lived as a metastasy abroad, suggestions - I honestly say that - for legality and immigration I cannot accept. My father was a miner for about twenty years in Germany. The son of immigrants grew up in Germany. So don't talk to me about racism and all that. Just so we know what we're talking about. Of course, I will tell the President, with great sympathy, that these people have no papers, we do not know who they are. When I went and my father had papers, legal documents. I'm not saying anything bad. I'm saying self-evident. You are also saying that you want to ban the word 'death immigration'. Because I studied philosophical - I don't know what your science is - the word illegal immigrant is there, like a smuggler, a smuggler. It's an existing word. Let me tell you one more thing. There are no bad or good words or dirty words. There's dirty brains to close up here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u227	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u228	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u229	Fear the words. I'm afraid I'm saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u230	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u231	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u232	I'm not talking to you. Mr President, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u233	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u234	So let's go to the word 'host of the hospitable'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u235	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u236	I'm not talking to you. Mr President, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u237	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u238	Let's go to the hospitality. I'd like to accept those who...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u239	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u240	Take them to your house. Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u241	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u242	I'm noble. I'm telling you not to interrupt me. You're a noble man.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u243	(It didn't hear.)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u244	Come on, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u245	Don't interrupt me. That's extreme. When did we interrupt someone in here? When did we make the bully, or did we yell underneath? So I say: Yes, we can help the whole world. Greece is bankrupt, we have homeless Greeks. The Greeks lose their homes. That's what we're saying. Is it bad? To close it here, I say the following. Democracy has no bans - I honestly say this - and Velopoulos cannot come out and say "it is forbidden to be you". Everyone will say anything he wants in a stylish way, no fascism, no Nazis. As for the raid battalions, I will tell you something: neither of us wears helmets or holds bats and will never hold the Greek Solution bats or helmets, because for us, the language of bones has not been broken. And we'll talk, no matter how many people want to squeeze us. As for the relocation, Mr President, there is something missing from you: we are violating an agreement. If we make an installation from the islands on mainland Greece, the Turkish-Greek Agreement does not apply. Turkey will not accept them. That is the problem and we note it. We're pointing it out, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u246	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u247	Don't commit the crime, I told you. Others are coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u248	Let's continue with the bill. Mr. Bukkaro, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u249	I request the floor, Mr President, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u250	You are a parliamentary representative. What do you want to place for? About what was said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u251	Yes, Mr. President. This is where we discuss a bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u252	We don't disagree about that. Am I saying? Anything you want to say in relation to what has been said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u253	Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u254	For a minute tight? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u255	For one or two minutes. Of course, that's enough. We are discussing a bill that, if you like, has won the consent of the political forces, which are the waterplanes. There's a lot of things going on here, like immigration. From the point of view of New Democracy, we have to say that the New Democracy has taken a problem in full. Immediately amended the legislative framework precisely to address the issue, which is a difficult problem and which Greece is facing. There are no parties to this. With the speeding up of asylum procedures, with the start of the returns of immigrants and those who have entered the country illegally by quick procedures, we are trying to deal with this problem and with the relocation, where necessary. The legal framework brought about by the Government of New Democracy has precisely this dual objective. Firstly, it must not leave the development of extreme views, which we have seen in the past, in which our prolongation is firmly opposed and, secondly, it does not give rise to the feeling that everyone enters the country and does what they want next. Asylum will be granted, through rapid procedures, to those who deserve it and those who do not deserve it, as the government has said and through its legislative initiatives, will take the way back. From there on, Mr President, allow me a little mention, because it is not right for our national interests to adopt phrases, opinions, statements by foreigners, neighbours or non-states in an attempt to prove that the government does not do its job properly, that the country does not do its job properly. To come to this Chamber to the views of other leaders of other states and in a way to adopt or ask questions in the debate, I think it is not good for our national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u256	Good. We are starting the list of speakers, with the first Mr. Prussakis Anastasios from New Democracy, which we call on the Step. Mr Evangelos Apostolos, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Boubas will be followed. This is the first quarter. You have the floor, Mr Prussakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure is a serious attempt to regulate the establishment and operation of water in our country, which is missing. I would remind you that the New Democracy and the governments at times made considerable efforts to make it possible to operate water in our homeland. Test flights were carried out with aeroplanes between 2005 and 2008, but there were some issues which have interrupted the development. The former Government of New Democracy has been authorised until 2015 to three enterprises that were involved in the Port Authority of Corfu, Paxon and Patras. In 2018, the SYRIZA government, after two years of delay, submitted a law - tombstone for the water routes. Not only did it encourage their operation, but it in every way canceled private water in our country never to be founded. Unfortunately, twenty-seven requests for interested parties were despised in the name of stateism. With the existing legislation, we will find a solution to the question of the operation and exploitation of the waterways. The expected benefits will be significant. Local communities will be strengthened, tourism will be developed and the national economy will benefit. The island character of Greece is to encourage additional means of transport. With this bill at first putting an end to the time processes, it prevents bureaucratic and inflexible processes and simple procedures are adopted, with fewer supporting documents and limited time. The law passed by the previous government in 2018 did not make it any easier to operate and set up, nor was a new water licence issued. The draft law also enables private investors to establish and exploit the waters. Therefore, in ports of smaller islands, if the management body, i.e. the municipality or the Port Fund, can now be exploited by individuals. By law SYRIZA, bodies such as the Port Authority of Piraeus, the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, which have been allocated to individuals, could not today establish water routes. They could also not obtain permission to set up water-water marinas, which have been granted to private individuals. At the same time, we are introducing a new definition of the license for the establishment of the water service. The investor concerned shall be allowed to build all the required infrastructures and installations by obtaining the licence. A similar flexibility is provided to public bodies, which are unable to finance the water infrastructure, to operate in a single and joint competitive process. An additional element is that the scope of the current legislative framework is expanded, the possibility of creating waters outside ports and lakes and in areas of tourist ports, for example, in marinas, shelters and anchorages, in areas of integrated tourist development, but also in complex tourist accommodations. It is very important that the definition of water fields and a new water map enables a new transport network to be set up. The water roads will give access to remote areas of tourist interest, as well as to remote islands. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the subject of interest in my region concerning Alexandroupolis and Samothraki. Through parliamentary control, with written questions and not just, I had raised the need to create water in the Thrace region. Unfortunately, despite the parliamentary control I have exercised, you have closed your ears. The aim remains to interconnect the continental country with the islands of the northeastern Aegean, which is our vital area. So why not create such a connection between the Greek islands of the north-eastern Aegean and Alexandroupolis, with Kavala, with Komotini? Is it a luxury to create a waterfront on the island of Niki? It could be netted out with the helicopter base function, which is unfortunately pending. Minister, I remind you - I think you have an obligation towards Samothrace - to complete this work, which, unfortunately, has been abandoned by the previous government. The use of the port of Alexandroupolis should be done in the light of the best possible use of all these different geographical points and include conditions for exploiting all transport capabilities. To conclude, I note that this is a bill, which is based on a basic principle governing our Government. It ensures, in other words, the development framework, the principle of support for entrepreneurship, sustainable development and investment. Let entrepreneurship fly literally this time, with an ally, a state that protects the public interest, a state that is in line with the policies of the large family of the European Union, where we belong. Let's get back to entrepreneurship to fly, literally as she knows. Combined transport is useful, ladies and gentlemen. Every means of transport is exploitable and we do not despise it, because it gives jobs, shortens distances and creates open and cross-border societies and regions. I am voting for the bill because we need the waters in Thrace. You, ladies and gentlemen, must do the same, because you have been late in an object that was useful for the whole of the country and would be fully in line with what other European countries do. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u258	The next speaker is Mr Apostle Evangelos from SYRIZA. I would ask you very much to keep time, the seventeenth, because the list, as you know and have seen, is too long and the meeting will be too late if we do not comply with the time. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA as a government to proceed with the issue of water, amended Law 4146/2013, voting for Law 4658/2018. The main difference in the bill we're discussing with our own law is that you're planning the permission to set up a water service can have it other than a public body and a private person. The second main difference is that the bill provides for the possibility of issuing a common licence for the establishment and operation of a water service and that anyone who makes a first request will be given the permission. Along with the fact that equipment for the waterway is a prerequisite not for the establishment permit, but for the operating licence, it means that one can obtain a residence permit without having a high cost for it and therefore can bind a space indefinitely, without spending enough on the equipment and then not doing any other action. Do not proceed with the investment, simply bind the position so that it is not exploited by a competitor. Another basic remark concerns the duration of the establishment permit. Furthermore, a procedure should be provided for in which the authorisation to establish may be revoked. In order to place the watercourses, there must also be a country's strategy, which will provide for how they are served, how we make economies of scale, how, apart from the cruise industry, the needs of the place, where the airway is likely to be served, can also be served. Strong interest, ladies and gentlemen, has been expressed in the construction of the waters in the area of Central Greece and especially in Evia and Skyros. In fact, the Port Authority of Evia, OLE, and the Port Fund of Skyros, in collaboration with the Region of Central Greece, have done the relevant work, reaching and ensuring funding for the construction of five waters, four on the island of Evia, in particular in Chalkida, Karysto, Kymi and Eidapsios, and one on Linaria, Skyros. The adjustment to the data to be applied by the new legislation remains. We supported these efforts, because we aspire that our two islands play an important role in hydroplane travel, not only in the Aegean, but also within Evia. We agree with the design, in addition to the four waterways, to operate in Chalkida and technical base, which will be responsible for the maintenance and technical control of the waterplanes. In our consideration of the provisions relating to the waterways, the regulation of Article 67 on the investment of the Greek, for which we have a very serious problem, is also added. On the site of the former airport there are three categories of buildings: the landlords, the landlords, and the demolished ones. By means of a provision of hybrids which in the Council of State, if any, may be annulled, bypass the relevant urban legislation on arbitrariness. By means of an act of accreditation, which also applies to a demolition permit recommended by the Office of the Greek Ministry of Finance and signed by the Ministry of Finance - it says - the Minister of Development - I have not heard this and I cannot understand it, perhaps you should clarify it more - they are considered as legally existing and demolished before the transfer. Two comments: First, does the Minister responsible for the Environment agree or accepts that responsibility should be left above it? That's what's going on. Second: How will spending on demolition work be presented? Did he present himself as a donation to the company and, as you can imagine, to use this donation and communication? The rest of the buildings - other than the landlords - will be used until demolition for five plus five years after the transfer. After all these ten years, we all realize what's going to happen! Ladies and gentlemen, our concern for the bill was that Amendment No 153, tabled by the Government, on the transfer of powers, concerning the issuing of authorizations from self-government to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. The worst of all is that this provision also occupies outstanding applications submitted to the competent authorities before the proposed provision enters into force. Why, Minister, do you remove powers from an area where we were all talking about decentralisation by self-government? You have no confidence - especially you - in your own self-government, which at present exercise administrative responsibility in much of the space? Oh, no. You do, because you want to serve certain interests. And one of these is what you photographed, who yourself confessed, Cassiope's investment. The problems of this investment do not only concern the delay in taking a decision by the Northern Corfu City Council on the specific responsibilities, but also concern others, mainly those relating to the impact on the environment. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have established investment, and that is why you do not have a limit on regulations, from grace to photography. For all this - as you can see - we are unable to say 'yes' in your bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Finance, Health and Transport have tabled a draft law on 6-22020: "Standardisation of the 3-220th individual Donation Convention - Project I and its 3-2-202020 Amendment Convention by 3-6-2019 individual Donation Convention - Project VI between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin with a reference to immigration - refugee, because the government seems not to understand the scale of the problem. He does not realize that the root of evil is the European Union-Turkey agreement, which he has of course signed, by handing over the keys to Turkey. No matter how good a management policy is followed, no matter how good a settlement is, it will not pay off because the ring opens and closes the streams is in Erdogan's hands. Therefore, instead of holding the Council meetings and questioning the effectiveness of this agreement and calling for a request to be made for the freezing, for example, of favourable customs arrangements for Turkey, the New Democracy Government is continuing its loophole. That's why one dead end is caused. Since for some time the competence for immigration policy was surrounded by Ministry at Ministry, the Prime Minister concluded to re-establish the Ministry of Immigration. So, Minister, we also have ministers. Immigration policy we do not see. Immigration policy does not exist and is not sought. Instead, special stamps are created and communication fireworks are filed, such as the creation of a NGO register. And it was a communication firework, because this amendment leads to non-controlling, and of course it did not take into account the fact that the provision of a register was already provided by law. And not only the prediction, the register was also created, regardless of its effectiveness. I will submit to the minutes the Ministerial Decision based on L.4375, which, as of 17 October 2018, reforms the previous ones and provides for the functioning of the Registry of Greek and foreign non-governmental organisations active in matters of international protection, migration and social integration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u262	Go to the bill, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u263	So here, gentlemen, the problem is that of working and not of the amendment. The problem is that of controlling the activities of these organisations and not of communication. Unfortunately, it's going on. I will also submit to the Minutes of the House the questions we tabled since September, both to the Minister of National Defence and to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the management of national and Community funds and resources in response to the refugee crisis. Here it is. The point is that there is no policy. That's the point. As I mentioned the amendments, I am starting with the amendment tabled in the bill to remove powers from the municipalities. As the CEDEFOP is meeting today, it would be interesting to know the opinion of the CEDEFOP on this removal. This amendment does not correct a point-by-point problem that has been identified, but is subtracted from the whole of self-government. In short, "it hurts tooth, it cuts head". This is the view of the Ministry and the Government. I ask: could it not take advantage of the insurance margins available for the time-limits or, if they are not safe, intervene at this level, that if the time elapsed after forty or sixty days, depending on the decision and competence, and the municipality does not exercise responsibility, then it is exercised by the same body or regional government or decentralised? He takes it to the Ministry, in other words, on the occasion of some procedure in a particular municipality, he comes to the Ministry. Take note of this: It is also combined with other, with building factors, with altitudes, very important issues that the Ministry has to address to regional authorities again. It is just a model that says that "I am concentrating responsibilities again on the center to have the central control of all activities". In addition, as it concerns investment, we must make it clear that the things that are suffering from them have been found to suffer as a result of the failure to comply with the deadline. Bulldozers were waiting six to seven months ago. Not just bulldozers, we don't even see a chop. Not only do we not see a new amendment, it came to solve issues. This is to give the congratulations for the promotion of investment once again. You have again brought an amendment to the regulation of eurocontrol. But is that possible? A few weeks ago, you had brought an amendment and transferred from one sector to another and put the branches into dissimilarity. Now bring in another and remove - says - from one who takes a lot and give to another who takes little. These are arrangements and they are not reforms. We call on you to take the amendment back and to have a dialogue with all those involved in the air traffic control system and to make a fair distribution of eurocontrol, in a way that will reward each worker for his service and productivity and of course each industry for its importance. With these two basic principles you have been dialogued and we will be supporting you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, just a little more time and I'll be done. Tourist buses, a large part of the bill, refers to transport in general. I take the example of tourist buses because now - it says - the Euro 5 Euro 6 standards do not apply - what are these Europeans now? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You know, we have something KTEO across Greece. They started out as state, because there was no business interest, obviously, at that time. Now Greece is filled, it's private. So they say: What specifications and what CTEO! We're going to age! They started ages from a few stages, and they were put on and kept by themselves. Now they're putting them here too. They say: 'Five years must be to come'. "Oh, brother, there are six years that are a Euro 6 specification and passes through CTEO." "Oh, no, you're going in five years"! What's this? There is a technical check and specifications. If these two are respected, what do the years matter? I should like to close up on the subject, which is about the part of transport, driving licences. You have promised, Minister, that in six months' time we will have a draft law in Parliament, in place of what you have been suspending the previous government. It's been six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u264	Six to nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u265	Six to nine, I'm corrected by Mr. Simopoulos. And because we're at seven, for the two months, are you taking the temporary leave?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u266	You're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u267	No, honestly, for the two months, are you taking the leave? Put it in, as long as it's temporary, that it's only for two months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u268	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u269	I'm closing in the waterways. We are in favour of the provisions which facilitate this big issue, which will create a new economy and new jobs, but which is not tackled again. My finding, after all these years, is that it does not go any further. First of all, they are not treated as a whole. Five - six bills, six - seven amendments, corrections from here, ministerial decisions from there, fragments, legs many times. This issue had to be discussed in its own right, without any other provisions and regulations. It is a huge issue and, indeed, it could have been promoted for years. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance for overcoming time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Constantine Boubas has him from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which says that we should not get away from this, but topical and urgent debates are being held, because time is being wasted by Members. And as Mr Tragakis says, we are not representatives, we are representatives of the people. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say that the day before yesterday we had the ratification of the Treaty with NATO, the reason was cut off by a number of colleagues, and we did not talk about the tampering. Before, however, I go to this, today my prefecture is crying, Serres Prefecture is destroyed by African swine fever. We warned the Ministry of Rural Development yesterday and its leadership that the risk is visible and protection measures had to have been taken since the summer, as the problem was visible in Bulgaria. We had two cases on August 9th. The Serres and all the pigs are now quarantined, because every export from the border of the prefecture will be banned, and I do not know from which other regional units, in respect of products, by-products of pigs and industrial tools, as it is a viral disease, which is not, fortunately, transmitted not to man, but is destroying the livestock sector and not to pig farming. It's a huge problem. We also alerted the Greek Ministry of Rural Development to take measures - always prevention is better healing - and unfortunately, we were verified yesterday by the Diagnostic Centre for Foot and Molecular Genetics, which says there is a problem after Bulgaria, Romania, Estonia, Latvia and Sardinia, in Greece. One thing I will tell you just: In 1957 he appeared in Portugal, in Lisbon. By 1990 the Spanish fought for this disease. You realise, ladies and gentlemen, what a disaster we may be talking about in the livestock sector and we have done nothing. There is not yet a pure-bred committee in this House to do a preparatory work on agri-food policy. We have a thousand committees and we do not have a committee clean for the primary sector. The second thing I want to stand on is this project, which the Greek Solution has been talking to you about since October. This is the draft by Horst Zehofer, the German Interior Minister, for Germany will take over the presidency of the European Union in the second half of the year. So the German Minister for the Interior - I submit to the Minutes, scripta manent - said 'no to welcome refugees from Greece'. What was that plan saying, ladies and gentlemen? That asylum will be granted to those who deserve it by European rules at the external borders of the European Union, namely - where? - in Greece. However, when he decides to go to Germany and other Central European countries, these countries will not be obliged to accept it and reopen the asylum procedure. That is, Greece on the margin. The victim of war will return to Greece, which has taken refuge under European rules and legally appeals. So they all live here! The rest is that we have to tell the Greek people the truth. So we are the ones at stake, that is what the Minister of the former Coal and Steel Union says! We'll have to enjoy him! We're a second-class country! Greece is not even happy! Those who come here either refugees or 'cleat refugees' will stay here. Zehhofer says it. I present the report from the newspaper 'Kathemerini', scripta manent. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Boubas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to NATO a little before I go to the waterways. The day before yesterday, for article 5 on NATO, there was no talk. When one NATO country threatens another NATO country, it does not specify Article 5 how there will be defence cooperation. For the Akuyu nuclear reactor with 1400 MV power cooled with sea water and throwing it into the Aegean Sea, the Turks, which is NATO's country, talk about it. For the Kozloduy nuclear reactor, which we are at risk of, back in 1970, from a naval country such as Bulgaria, talking about! For the port of Alexandroupolis, as Turkey violates the Treaty of Montre and lets airships over forty-five thousand knots pass, talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u272	Go to the bill, Mr. Buba!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, why is the speech made by Members cut off to talk about important issues? The day before yesterday, we had a crescendo from the Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response. These are the issues we need to discuss. Let's go to the water roads. It will change the map of Greece, but I want you to tell me if, first of all, we will respect the environment in some lakes protected by the Ramsar Treaty and "NATURA", such as Trichoda, Pambotida, the Ambracian Gulf. Secondly, is there a concrete plan for military water fields, to use military hydroplanes now to guard the Aegean? It's a chance. There are isolated islands. I would like there to be a water field in the government's plan for Ae-Stratis, Samothraki, between Imbros and Tenedo, Megistis or Kastelorizo, Stronglis and Rho who are demarcating our exclusive economic zone, because the islanders feel isolated from the barren lines, which are not subsidised, for the sake of shipowners. He pays 60 to 65 euros to go from the airport of Venizelos, which is now German's best interests - even in FRAPORT patrols, we see there - in Piraeus. Why don't you take out a card of permanent inhabitants of the islands, enjoy other treatment, so that they don't feel isolated? You must do so, because we must give the guarantees and put the traceability that I see nowhere for the islanders. It's an opportunity to promote hydroplanes for a disease. The people of Megistis or Kastelorizos won't take a phone to get to Turkey's doctors because they're neglected. Please specify all the specifications! However, I also see a commitment of funds from investments to be made. What about customs controls? We'll also have waterplanes, which will also carry goods? How will this check be carried out? I'm closing, Mr. President. As far as buses are concerned, of course, we need to see strict conditions for buses carrying students. Do you remember the use of a seat belt on buses? Then where did that go? Out of the way. We need to see the bus standards, the fleet is obsolete, but I want this Ministry of Transport to take measures and renew all the agricultural tractors of the farmers, who are obsolete, to change the sprinklers, the brakes, the lofts and the tractors. It's not just electrokinesis. The primary sector today - on the occasion of African swine fever - really laps and bleeds. Do something! Do not dare - and I put all of us here - do not dare to hurt the first residence, because I see that we are leaving Parliament at risk at night.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u274	All right, all right, finish up, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u275	I shall conclude, Mr President. I cannot hear Mr Georgiadis - who is my colleague, once did telemarketing together - say to me 'where did he sound elsewhere'. It was heard in Greece, yes, in Greece the first residence will be protected, the first residence of Greece, because this is where democracy and philosophy were born and it is a country in favour of the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u276	The next speaker we call on Stepma is Mr. George Logiadis from Mera25. Mr Liupis, Mr Baraliacos and Mr Gikas will be followed, which are the second quarter. Here, Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, dear friend, Mr Kefaliannis, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill contains a lot of issues, quite different from one another. It also lays down other provisions, road and freight transport regulations, the introduction of a temporary driving licence and other, including photographic provisions. Mr Angelopoulos, in our committee as a body, said that the railways are a sign of an interface between the public and private sectors. I fear that this is one way, through the back door, to privatise every public area, every public sector. Minister, in our opinion, the water routes are of interest to large countries with many lakes, such as Canada, Russia and Finland. Personally, in Crete - and you from Rethymnon - I would not like to see in front of the hotels in Rethymnon landing a hydroplane with so much noise, nuisance. That's our place. I wonder, how many of us have been on a waterplane in the Aegean Sea, when it's so airy? For the waterways, I will only refer to Article 50, which breaks down the independence of the Independent Civil Aviation Authority from the opinions of the HR. Also, the same article increases, doubles, compensation in only one branch of the FAO and does not take care of all branches of the Civil Aviation Service. In 2019, we had a record record on passengers at airports. We had sixty-five million. We don't have any evidence, some studies. We're talking about about ten thousand passengers. And that's under question. Will it be sustainable? Personally, I would prejudge the development of all the small ports in the country, the fishing shelters, the marinas. We are a marine state, 'Make sea state', as Thucydides said. On the occasion of today's Ministerial Conference, however, I would like to refer to another issue, that of the airport in Kastelli. We, as a PARTA25, know that we are opposed to this. It will have multiple construction costs from a modernised and upgraded "Nikos Kazantzakis". It will have much smaller capacity, because a Nikos Kazantzakis airport, with a new highway - not the existing one - will be more able to serve customers. Instead of increasing the traffic in Kastelli, it will be reduced by the new corridor that it has. You know, I come from tourism. The planes are right now flying over my hotel and bothering me. They're forcing my clients. Personally, I would have liked Nikos Kazantzakis to have left yesterday and I would have liked Kastelli - if it ever worked yesterday. However, I think that the good of the social system is above my individual good, my individual interest. I ask the 'tour operators' how Castelli sees it from Europe that flys the planes. They tell me for a higher cost, for longer flight time, that the tourist package will be charged, etc. All of this is inconsistent with the competitiveness of our tourism product. Also domestic flights - 'AEGEAN', 'SKY EXPRESS' and anyone else - will have the same topic. As a Cretan, as Heraklion, I also think how long it takes me to go to this new airport, when and when it happens. Due to the increase in this flight time by about twenty minutes, because the planes will come from the south Cretan Sea, as we used to call the Libyan, they will burn more fuel and we will have a great deal of environmental damage, beyond the disaster that we will have in ancient times, as with fast tracks the license was granted, as well as the relief of the natural area. The aquifer will be poisoned and the microclimate will be affected. In this area we have very often the phenomenon of the mist. It is, therefore, often a thriller experience for passengers due to strong turbulence, soil morphology - mountains, shears, etc. - the east approach to this new airport. Nor is there any means of fixed track, such as train, metro or tram, as here at "Eleftherios Venizelos" we have the suburban railway. At such airports it is essential to have such a means of public transport. We have not yet seen how this airport will be supplied by the Greek roads so large quantities of kerosene for this new airport, which will be about thirty-five miles away from the existing airport. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The alternative we said, therefore, is to upgrade and modernise the existing airport with a new high-speed runway and extend the tourist season in order to make better use of the airport "Nikos KAZANTZAKIS" for the whole year. Today, in Heraklion Crete, the issue of the municipality of Minoa Pedados will not be represented at all on the board of the new airport. This board is composed of eleven individuals, five of whom are from your Ministry, five are from the "TERNA" company and one, he says, will be from the European Investment Bank. So we see that all this is going away from us. There is no legal commitment to work Greeks in the construction of the airport and its operation after. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I will remember the Olympic projects that we had brought Afghans and all kinds of foreigners, cheap labour, to finish these projects too quickly. Tomorrow the Council of State will be tried to refer the concessions to the Council of State and, in fact, I am pleased that Mrs Sakellaropoulou then referred the matter to the Plenary Assembly of the Ice Arena.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u278	The Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u279	In the Council of State, yes. Mr. Kefaliannis, you told my committee that you took it from the previous government and continue it. With all due respect, in Crete, we say: "The teninger has wrapped and found the lid". You can change that. I think you have the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u280	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and students and four educational sessions from the 4th Gymnasium Tripolis. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Liupis Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the first chapter of this draft law, it attempts to re-establish the provisions relating to the right to establish, operate and operate the waters, to simplify and speed up administrative procedures and to address the problems that have so far prevented their operation in Greece. Greece has sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline, two hundred twenty inhabited islands and a number of lakes. With this bill, the government has the ambition of creating a secure investment environment and attracting new investors by providing for their access to the strategic investment scheme. It will thus allow the development of a water network for both tourist reasons and the provision of emergency needs, such as aerospace, fire extinguishment, research and rescue. For the first time, a single licence for the establishment and operation of water infrastructures is introduced, with the possibility of building and operating not only by public but also by private entities. In this way, there is the possibility for bodies such as the Port Authority of Piraeus, the Port Authority of Thessaloniki, as well as for marinas that have been privatised, founded and operated waterways. The provision of authorisation outside ports and lakes under preconditions, including in tourist ports, marinas, shelters, anchorages, as well as in areas of integrated tourist development and complex tourist accommodation is intended to increase the visibility of even the most difficult tourist destinations. In water routes, foreign flights may also be made on condition that entry and exit points are designated at the request of the water operator. The staff of the aquariums and those who are active in them can now be trained not only by the Civil Aviation Service, but also by international organisations, certified Greek and foreign bodies, in Athens but also in the region. The authorisation to set up and operate shall be valid for an indefinite duration as long as the waters are in operation and the operating licence shall be valid for a shorter duration than five years. A licence for the establishment of a waterway shall be automatically withdrawn if no authorisation has been issued within five years of the granting. Moreover, it is important to establish an electronic system for monitoring water licences, in which all the information on each of them is recorded. The service tariffs shall be fixed by the operator and a public operating fee of EUR 10 shall be established by providing for exemption for small islands. It is also important to provide for approval and imprinting on seafarers' maps of water fields outside the water at the request of the institution or person concerned for authorisation to the competent services of the Hellenic Navy. Water fields allow flights occasionally and under conditions and at remote destinations and facilitate special emergency: transport of patients, fire extinguishing and research. It is a regulation of particular importance to the small islands of the country, which are lacking in a developed transport network. In the second chapter, it is important to regulate Article 32 for the reduction of immovable vehicles as public use, by renting them by businesses to meet their needs and by exploiting vehicles which have not been put into service. Article 37 sets an age limit on tourist buses IX in order to enhance road safety and reduce environmental pollution. The provisions of Article 38 aim to ensure that the Athens and Thessaloniki passengers do not have any further problems in future due to the deficiencies either to staff or to vehicles. The provision is temporary - up to two years - and it is after the approval of the relevant Minister and provides for the assignment of the execution of urban and long-distance services to areas within the competence of OSCE and OSH by the relevant CATEGORIES for not more than two years. In Chapter III, Article 42, for the first time, a temporary driving licence shall be introduced for both the domestic and internal periods of up to four months until the final licence is issued. In the fourth chapter, the provision of Article 55 is important. A solution is given to the problem of property owners who have necessarily been expropriated, which have not been used or which have not been used in the future, with the provision of a procedure for the withdrawal of expropriation or disposal of the property, provided that the owner does not wish to withdraw. In conclusion, I should like to point out that the provision of Article 65 seeks to put an end to the suffering of citizens on the national network of the country by establishing a procedure for investigating traffic interruptions over one hour and imposing fines on those responsible. As a Member of Parliament, I can only welcome the presentation of the bill and the effort made by the Minister to amend and improve the provisions on the basis of the observations made by the Vice-President and the institutions and leading to a broad political consensus, with the hope that Volos, Terrestrial Magnesia and Sporades will function immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, too. Mr Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr Gikas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on the establishment, operation and exploitation of waters comes to add to our country's investment a further catalyst of economic development. It places Greece on the ever-growing seaplanes' seaplanes' ever-growing seaplanes' map, which are of global investment interest. These investment flows, unfortunately, spurred, due to the inability of the previous government, in the oily waters of bureaucracy, ignorant detention, hundreds of signatures and party ideas. It is characteristic that while dozens of files were in the drawers of SYRIZA’s co-legislative ministers, none of them were interested in unblocking the procedures, so that today they have only been licensed for three waterways throughout the territory, and yet another tourist season has no access to this great human tank. We are perhaps a unique case of a country that has such an enlarged geomorphological, appropriate and rich coastline and at the same time so untreated and stripped of infrastructure. By voting on this bill, all this changes. This market will finally be transformed into Greece and another great project of this government is being carried out. The multitude institutional regime is normalized, the licensing process is simplified and the new arrangements facilitate rather than entangle investors. In simple terms, a safe and comprehensive framework is introduced which allows Greece to exploit its most reliable and time-consuming comparative advantage, which is no more than the water resources, its shores and its seas. The government's bill simplifies licensing, reduces the required volume of the overall procedure to half, does not require unnecessary joint ministerial decisions, while removing signatures and unnecessary bureaucratic steps. It is characteristic that the number of supporting documents in the technical file has been reduced, resulting in a shorter evaluation and therefore a speeding up of the authorisation to establish, but without any reduction in compliance with safety guarantees and strict standards on equipment. It is therefore up to the creation of water routes in the overall planning to attract strategic investment to encourage and strengthen enterprises active in this area. After all, it is well known that large business groups are interested in financing large-scale investments for which, until now, they have hesitated, because of the high bureaucratic costs, the insecurity of law and the lack of a clear institutional framework. In its full implementation, this ambitious investment project, which provides for the creation of about a hundred water routes, could generate revenues in our country, since for each passenger on board the respective company will pay a paradox of EUR 10 for public service. So think, ladies and gentlemen, when the commercialisation of these companies touches its ceiling. Then we will talk about numbers that may exceed all four million passengers, not just 10 euros, but their physical presence will exponentially increase gross state revenue, but also tourist businesses. In this way, in areas of tourist interest, there is also a widening of visitability from larger tourist groups with a stronger economic background and a higher social profile. I am not hiding to you, ladies and gentlemen, that from the very first moment on, water investment has been a personal vision for which I will do my utmost and, in cooperation with the self-government bodies, I will take advantage of every aspect of my parliamentary capacity in order to support their implementation in my county, Pieria. You will allow me at this point to make a small, but due, infringement of my place of residence, which will be part of this great investment network, with the aim of gaining at least two water routes over the next few years. Already the necessary work, appropriate contacts and the necessary planning to proceed directly with the business plan of a large investment group, which has prepared a plan for the inclusion of Pierre between the legislation under discussion for the installation of water law. This project will contribute to the reform of the whole region and will provide a permanent nature of extroversion and attracting capital, with multiple benefits across the range of economic activity. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise and welcome the unremoved attitude of the Ministry. They deserve many congratulations to Minister Kostas Karamanlis and Deputy Minister Giannis Kefaloyiannis for the implementation of this leading development proposal, a proposal that comes to conclude an initiative by the previous New Democracy Government - and here, Mrs Perkas, to correct and tell you that the first aqueducts were signed in 2014 in the New Democracy and not later in SYRIZA - and are part of a clear and visionary programme aimed at extending the economic horizons of our country. Waterways are another multiplier for the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u284	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a region, Ionian and Corfu, which a few years ago in 2004-2008 had the pleasure of experienceing the benefits of waterplanes and realizing after 2008, which unfortunately also because of the crisis but also because of bureaucratic turbulences of the public have left, how important their presence has been for our island region. But let's start over. Law 4146/2013 regulated the process of establishing and operating water, overcoming the difficulties that have caused, as we have said, the bureaucratic claws that have persecuted the first investors. In fact, Corfu and the Paxos were licensed, two islands, which had benefited from the operation of the waterplanes, wanted the continuation of the routes. In August 2016, the government of SYRIZA passed a new draft law, with the prospect of soon completeing it so that the waterplanes can be reintegrated on routes. One would expect that in October 2016 this law would have been passed and very soon the Cybers and Circulars would have been issued. Curiously, the law came to the House in October 2018, two years and two months later. The law was passed in October 2018, but even until they handed over power neither the joint ministerial decisions nor the circulars of the relevant Ministries had come out in order to allow this law to function. I'm talking about Law 4568/2018. However, this law did not allow for the full development of waterplanes since, among other things, it provided for the issue of a licence for the establishment of water only to public bodies. Thus, port agencies and marinas that were likely to have been privatised in the process were excluded. This was, in our view, an unnecessarily unnecessarily and meaninglessly restricted. We're leaving all this behind. The current Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is coming soon after the takeover of governance by New Democracy and brings in a comprehensive piece of legislation, which regulates all that concerns the operation of the water network. In particular, the possibility of setting up a water network also arises from private operators. Together with the possibility of issuing either a single licence for the establishment and operation of two separate licences, a much more flexible form of their establishment and operation is offered. Public bodies may operate the waterways on their own, but where there is no economic possibility, through a single competitive procedure, they may cooperate with individuals wishing to operate the water service. It is very important to mention that strategic investment may be made subject to strategic investment, provided that the conditions of the new law that we have recently adopted, under Law 4608/2019, are met. The definition of possible waterways is also extended. This will enable water and tourist ports to operate in marinas, shelters, in areas of integrated tourism development, that is added value. Clearly - and we must be categorical and set out in the bill - the uncontrolled creation of water routes will not be allowed. Where safety issues are raised or where archaeological sites exist are excluded. Now, in order to issue the licence, the Civil Aviation Service is required to give its opinion, a certificate of placement by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, and there are also provisions for building facilities. As a whole, the draft law sets out a framework of rules and provisions which will prevent the unregulated creation of water. It is important that the bill is because I will tell you that about fifteen thousand flights took place between 2004 and 2008 and about two hundred thousand passengers moved. As far as utility is concerned, I told you beforehand that we are reminiscing those days when we took the waterplane from Corfu and in fifteen minutes we were at Paxos or continued to Patras or Yannina or Bridezi. That was the line then. I believe that the proper use of waterplanes will bring significant economic benefits. The fact that the possibility of establishing a water route is no longer limited to ports can lead to increased traffic in remote areas with tourist interest, while accessibility to complex tourist accommodation is facilitated. The operation of waterplanes also has added value for the cruise product, and that is very important, because the cruise is currently in development because everyone involved benefits. Firstly, the tourist offices, since they will be able to offer the tourist additional places to visit. Secondly, tourists themselves will benefit, who will have the opportunity to visit more points of a place and soon. And thirdly, local communities will also win, self-evident why. This is therefore a development tool, which will help the country's tourism development. I do not want to go into other details, I will only say that and it is a proposal that I am making, Minister. In view of the above, we propose - and I ask you to consider it - that a water management coordination and management group should be set up. Especially if the waters are also extended to the Aegean Sea and a network of rivers is set up throughout the country, we propose the creation or an independent authority or even a special secretariat, which will take over the entire grid of planning, licensing, inspection, maintenance, operation of all the waterway networks. It's not an easy project. The project we lived in the Ionian and it really needs careful work. So, Minister, we congratulate you on this initiative, and of course I urge you all to vote in favour of it, because it is a development tool that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u286	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u287	Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is an important part of the development plan that our Government is implementing very quickly, a project which, as the main axis, places the opening-up to large investments as a key catalyst for sustainable development and for the creation of well-paid jobs. The central objective is to create the conditions for the development of healthy entrepreneurship through the reduction of taxation and the simplification of licensing procedures. The main pillar in this great effort is tourism, which has contributed to the maximum extent of the decades of economic crisis that we have left behind. It is therefore understandable that in the new decade that is rising, Greek tourism must and can further increase its importance as a key sector in the economy and, above all, increase its competitiveness on the world market. Greece is invited to respond to the new trends in consumer behaviour and demand for foreign visitors, leaving behind standardization practices and sterile marketing of the Greek tourism product, which unfortunately favour the phenomenon of mass tourism. The assessment of the tourist periods based on the flow of arrivals is a story that ends and this is because the increase in the number of arrivals recorded in recent years is not accompanied by the relevant stimulus of revenues, which means that in order to maintain or increase the competitiveness of the Greek tourist product a mature and comprehensive approach is needed. A modernly upgraded tourism product should combine environmental sensitivity, maximise the use and enhancement of cultural heritage, integrate the digital transformation of the economy into tourist services and, of course, expanded transport networks. Only in this way can the development of other productive sectors of local industries and their interconnection with tourism be thriving. Our aim must be to attract visitors with high quality standards and to maximise their degree of satisfaction and not the numbers. In this direction, today's bill, among other things, finally opens the way for private investment in the establishment, operation and exploitation of the waters, creating conditions for the expansion of the whole network to islands, ports, lakes, in areas of integrated tourist development, in complex tourist accommodation and tourist ports. The new draft is aimed at simplifying and speeding up the procedures required for the licensing of waters, key arrangements for removing restrictions and difficulties in existing legislation, and I am referring, of course, to No 4568/2018. Because the SYRIZA government, while receiving the institutional framework ready to operate, managed to bring about a law with a number of problematic provisions after four years. Today, therefore, the Government is allowing the establishment and operation of a water service, while maintaining the possibility of authorisation in two stages of the current legislative framework, the possibility of granting a licence for the establishment of a water service and a private body other than the public body, and the issuing of a licence for the establishment of a water service without a prerequisite for an inspection by which the investor can, by obtaining the licence, proceed to legal construction, while providing for the setting up of a limited committee of water for inspections. Of course, there is provision for the possibility of training the staff working the water, not only from the Civil Aviation Service, but also from other certified bodies of the interior or abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative initiative by the Government, the economy is being freed from severe strangles, giving a strong incentive to investors for long-term positions with what this implies for tourism, the economy and society. It is an extremely important development project that changes the reality of air transport in a country with such a large coastline, contributing to the facilitation of traffic, the sense of security for residents in remote areas and, in general, to the needs of the community as a whole. It is a decisive step towards strengthening the extroversion that the country needs, but also Greek tourism. This fundamental sector of the economy also needs key legislative interventions from other portfolios that favour wider synergies, as well as the creation of modern and appropriate infrastructure and services in the sector. After all, changing global demand requires that our comparative advantages be maintained, but with continuous improvement in the value of quality, investments in technology and infrastructure and culture change in the organisation. Greece proves with the work of the current government that it understands the mistakes of the past and changes. 2020 is expected to be a catalyst year for investment and development. In this case, therefore, the national effort needs to be made maximum use of all the country's comparative advantages. The road is a long one, but the political will exists. For a country that is modern, extroverted, with steady growth and prospects for all. I therefore call on all colleagues to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u288	Me too, my colleague. Now the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Madam President. The reason why I am speaking is to put forward the legislative improvements, most of which, as you all know, have been announced at the last meeting of the committee. I would like to refer to and focus on some of the minor changes that are taking place. On the legal basis we add also Law 4412 and Law 4413 of 2016 on public procurement and concessions. With the second and fourth legislative improvements, we include the Port Regulatory Authority as the authority to which documents should be communicated for the use of port space should be made available. And with the eleventh anniversary of the interconnection between Preveza and the airport of Aktio, the joint decision of both regions is laid down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Sukoulis - Vilialis from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to place myself in the part of the bill on the regulation of the procedures for the establishment, operation and exploitation of the waters, an issue which has been recognised for several years as an important development tool, but also as many other issues in our country, has been lost in the translation of bureaucratic and political claws. Ladies and gentlemen, improving the investment environment in our country is a strategic policy axis and a direct priority of every government action, in practice and not in words. With this bill, we give our political signal once again. We consistently move on to our election commitments, adopting post-election actions that strengthen the legal framework of an investment facility through simplification of procedures. We are not afraid of entrepreneurial creativity, and above all, we are not afraid of public-private cooperation. On the contrary, we believe that these factors are prerequisites for the desired production and influx of the wealth needed by the country, with a view to its economic and social recovery. Hydroplane is a means of transport that has enormous potential for growth in an area with our own morphological arrangement. The establishment and operation of the water network will significantly help the transport network of the country and, in particular, the interconnection of islands with mainland Greece, but will also enhance the enrichment of the tourist product at a time that is highly competitive in the field of tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also enable the inhabitants of the most remote regions to have frequent economic and safe access to regional centres in the country. The transport link is the central commercial artery of every activity, it is our national duty to keep the border points of the country alive and especially now that the neighbour's review policy is becoming more threatening than ever. At the same time, a modern and innovative water network will offer visitors a unique tourist experience, revealing areas or, if you like, hidden treasures of our beautiful country. For example, in Corinthia, can you imagine visitors being able to move from Buliagmeni Lake to Loutraki Lake Glossa in our mountainous tumor in Fenos of the Municipality of Sykion? Or we could make real use of our huge coastlines both on the side of the Corinthian Gulf and on the side of the Saronic Gulf, such as Loutraki, Corinthos, Brahati, Kiato, Xylokastro in the Corinthian and Saronic Kalamaki, the Bathrooms of the Fine Helena, Korfos. They are areas that really call for this excellence and already have municipalities that have started environmental impact studies. We could still unite thematic routes, like, say, archaeological sites. In us are Ancient Sikyona, Heaion, Isthmos with the opposite region, such as Delphi. I am sure that such examples and similar cases exist throughout the country. Then and only then will we have given content to the term "development", i.e. new business actions, new jobs, new revenues for the Greek state and ultimately a better standard of living for all of us. How will this self-evidently be a positive step? I'm sure it won't happen with the previous regime of forty-two - listen, listen! - administrative operations relating to the establishment of waterways. Ladies and gentlemen, we have committed to the Greek people that every day we will free and free our country's productive potential. The bill is moving decisively so that the obvious is transformed into action. There's a lot of bureaucratic obstacles. Administrative acts on the establishment of watercourses are reduced to half. We are innovating and authorising the authorisation to establish water and private individuals. The bill allows a single licence to be issued and a licence to be issued, while maintaining the authorisation in two stages. The creation of a water service, if the existing provisions are met, may be subject to strategic investment, as well as to public-private partnerships, PPP projects. But what, for me, shows the political will of the government and of the relevant ministers, which I would really like to congratulate for both hard work and determination, is that the regulatory acts, namely ministerial and joint ministerial decisions, are ready to come into force immediately and to avoid the unacceptable phenomena that we had in Law 4568/2018, which we are still waiting to see a year and a half after the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a tangible proof that there is a way of doing things where there is will. In the face of the strangles of yesterday, we are confronted with the creativity of today. We are moving forward - step by step, and since the summer of 2020, yes, we will all be able to enjoy Greece from where it deserves to be, that is from above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u292	Me too, my colleague. Mr Vassilidis has the floor from New Democracy. Get Mr. Madas ready and then Mr. Davakis ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my position will focus on Part I of the draft law, which concerns the establishment, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces. In my opinion, this is a necessary and useful intervention on an issue that should have been dealt with for many years. The very geographical morphology of our country makes the use of waters as a very attractive choice fast and at the same time cost-effective movement of people and why not loads if this proves viable. Greece has the largest coastline in the Mediterranean and over two hundred and twenty inhabited islands. In many of these, the construction of a water or water field will have a direct positive impact on the life of the inhabitants and the economy of the island. The truth is that we are not talking about these prospects for the first time today. The House in the past had again legislated on this issue, most recently Law 4568/2018. However, as I have already said, the amendment of the existing framework is necessary. The authorisation shall be divided into an authorisation and an authorisation without the possibility of issuing a single authorisation. At the same time private undertakings are excluded from the possibility of obtaining a licence. This makes all such work hostage to public bureaucracy, such as Local Government agencies, the Ministry of Transport itself or other management bodies, while the most concerned port agencies are excluded. At the same time, the form and main volume of the technical file required, but also the involvement of a large number of services make permits practically impossible. These reasons are cultivating a climate of uncertainty to the ambitious investors for the operation of the waterways and thus making these projects unattractive. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today comes to interfere with precisely the paths of the existing framework, simplifys the procedures and reduces the necessary bureaucracy. In particular, it provides for the possibility of issuing an authorisation in conjunction with an authorisation, giving flexibility to the authorisation. The private sector will now be able to claim a licence to set up, while allowing these investments to be covered by the strategies. In this way, it encourages the creation and operation of water networks and not just individual fields. In this way, remote tourist destinations are becoming easier to access to a broad tourist audience and a wide range of visitability is ensured. The draft law is primarily, but not exclusively, developmental. The construction and operation of an extended network of water fields makes it easier for patients to transit, but also for air-fighting services. Both cases touch on the sensitive area of civil security, particularly the inhabitants of remote areas. On this point, let me refer to the case of Lake Behoritis. The prospect of building water in the lake is nothing new. As an idea it has been discussed for some time, as it will connect remote tourist destinations, such as the Voras ski resort and the Pozar baths. At the same time, it will serve the daily life, as well as the exceptional needs of the residents of the neighbouring towns of Pella and Florinas, as well as the many villages in the area. However, from the idea we have not yet been able to implement, and that is why it is the current legal framework, because, as far as I know, the local government, which took the field initiative, did not manage to deal with bureaucracy and lost interest. It is characteristic that the applicable Law 4568 has only been applied in Greece. In conclusion, Mr President, for the reasons I have explained, but also for the other provisions, which I distinguish from the simplification of procedures relating to freight transport and the issue of a temporary driving licence, I support the draft law under discussion and urge the House to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u294	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and four educational sessions from the 4th Gymnasium Tripolis (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Mandash has the floor from New Democracy. Get Mr. Davakis ready. You have seven minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we are following today's debate and also the debate in committee, we are all aware that with the operation of water, the tourist product in our country is being strengthened, that the visitability of popular tourist destinations is being extended. However, visitability and more remote tourist areas are widened. We all agree that combined transport is being strengthened for more efficient passenger transport in tourist destinations. And while we agree on all of this, we have seen that three laws and seven years have taken us to achieve something we all agree on. And I really wonder how people see today's day, that on a subject for which we are all agreed, it took seven years since the first law, 4146/2013, two years after the second law, 4568/2018 and the law we are voting on today. It took seven years to decide whether we will have private, public or private water. It took seven years to decide whether a licence will be needed for the establishment of waterways and another permit for operation or whether one will be needed for both, whether or not we will be afflicting investors - more or less. In my opinion, they are also worthy of congratulations to the government, but also to the ministers who are here today, because this bill aims precisely at the core of the problem. What's the core of the problem? That we must finally have the water roads in our country, but we must create an institutional framework that is easy to achieve. Because the main objective of this bill is to implement immediately the law, which should have been self-evident in our country. And how are we going to do that? By simplifying the licensing procedures, which is the key, but also by reducing the delegated ministerial decisions, which reach about 50% with this draft law. I imagine what Messinia would be like, for example, if the Pylon River had been operating for years and had not been involved in the scratches of bureaucracy in the last four and a half years, or was operating the Kalamata Waterway. What would Messinia be like if Kyparissia, which has a wonderful port, could be connected to the Ionian Islands with hydroplanes or Kardamili, which you all know, the wonderful Mani. All this, therefore, seems to me to be not just a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy. It is self-evident for our country, which is offered to implement all these investment actions. Two main issues, Minister, I would like to raise, which I think we will be called upon to deal with. The first is this: there is an important problem with regard to the lack of conditions for building and covering in the ports of our country. There are some ports which have exhausted the conditions of construction, so that prefabricated water parks cannot be built there or installed. The existing procedure, which provides for the extension or revision of the conditions of construction, is hopelessly time-consuming and is a subversive factor which reduces the investment interest in these ports. The second thing we should be careful about is that the provision in the draft law for accessing a waterplane only to a water-plane per flight up to six times a day may make it difficult to operate the routes and makes this more expensive. It is an issue that at least for the first time concerning the temporary operation of the first waters until they are licensed as a whole in the country, you could in a second time consider it to be amended. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to thank you personally for your understanding of Article 36 of the bill, with regard to the penalties for the intercepting of transport projects, which were clearly made after the debate we held in the committee. Both the Minister and the State Secretary fully understood the social dimension of the issue and changed the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, too. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u297	Ladies and gentlemen, we have said many times since this Step forward that the difficult work of this government for six months has been - and it makes it more difficult - to legislate on many occasions. And that is now the case with this legislative initiative: it is self-evident's legislation. A country such as Greece, which is all over the sea, whose liquid element is dominant and linked to the history, culture and nature of this people, is now coming, by making this government and the ministers concerned, the steadfast ones - prevented by the deadly argument of the Opposition - to legislate self-evidently. I believe that opposition must begin to ride on certain issues in a positive way against this kind of legislative initiative. And I say that because it'll do her good. It will be more attractive to the people in this House and, in any case, to issues - such as the other ones - that are about to do with the common place, with which we must be linked, rather than split up, we have to work together in this Chamber. In this way, I would say, we are also raising the sense of political culture. Nevertheless, we see the same argument to continue, which unfortunately does not lead anywhere. This bill has long been answering what was said so long about the water issue. We have reached the point for several years now - seven, eight years - to say that other interests hide behind the issues of the disarmament of the Greek state to legislate on interests to which the Greek people gave their own response. I believe that what is now happening has a political aim for the future, a target that will certainly lead to the success of the government's work. This is reflected in the day-to-day legislative initiative that we are debating in this Chamber. There was a ban on the establishment of waterways by private individuals, which demonstrates the idea of the past, which is now leaving, which is now opened in a landscape and private initiative and responds to the various objections of the Opposition on the definition of water routes on specific points. Our rapporteur said that the market would regulate these issues. And, indeed, the market will regulate them within a framework of protection, of course, of the environment and of the people's interests, which - let me say - this people's party, the New Democracy, protects them much more than those who constantly invoke them. Most importantly, however, it will regulate issues that, in addition to the tourist product which is important and lives in this place, with the safety and social benefits that we meet every day, with regard to the crossroads and all that constitute the extraordinary event of island Greece. And if there were no Armed Forces, with the aerospace that they are doing - the mutual work of the Armed Forces - I don't know what would happen in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, with feelings of joy - I would say - but also many hopes that New Democracy, the party that supports the government, this bill and accompanying it, because I believe that every fellow Member who comes to this Chamber and speaks and mentions places, regions of his constituency - who also gives him the right to speak from this Step - feels that this will give a particular stimulus and a special interest in tourism and security in his constituency. And me, my place, Gythio, Mani, Monemvasia, Naples, Elafonissi, all the things that are raining from the sea - the two feet of the Peloponnese, as you know, are the Laconia Prefecture - expecting to see this kind of evolution, a development that I feel will have a promising dimension, as regards the issues of the tourism product and the insurance. Minister, I believe that this bill, in addition to the narrow technical, bureaucratic - it is its character - marks for all of us who support you as government and something else. It marks the willingness, the intention of the government to break eggs, to dismantle the strangles which have so far formed the political, governmental and bureaucratic - I would say - and, in this respect, I believe that both the vote and the confidence of the Parliamentary Group but, above all, the Greek people will accompany you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u298	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Bogdanos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, from the point of view of Officerial Representation in the chairs is only the honourable rapporteur, Mrs Perka. This is what I fear, in a way, at least from the point of view of Officerial Response, shows, Minister, and the real care there is on island policy issues. Because today we are not just discussing a bill by the Ministry of Transport, nor are we discussing a bill by such a denominator. We are discussing a draft law which, among other things, focuses on island policy, with very substantial but also symbolic content. We produce from this Chamber, at last, a positive news for our islands, at a time when due to the artificial increase in migration flows from Turkey, our islanders, and in particular the locusts, the guards of our advanced prisons, are thirsty for such news. With the reforms for the establishment and operation of the water routes introduced by this bill, we are essentially strengthening the links that continue with our national body. We are ensuring a necessary complement to communication between islands and mainland Greece. Greece is mainly an island state. We must not forget that. We facilitate the aerospace of patients, research and rescue operations, in particular the supply of small and expensive islands with priority species. We are strengthening the possibilities for tourist development for remote island destinations and for developed tourist destinations, because on the free market the more choices are, the better. We are also strengthening security and economic development, giving a strong incentive to our islanders to stay and to advance to our islands. Therefore, the opposition parties must realise what for the New Democracy is at the hard core of the ideological proposal, namely that ensuring the prospects of economic development, the liberalisation of the creative forces of the Greeks, investment in talent, ingenuity, the labour of our generation, is the most effective multiplier of power, the better guarantee of the rights and interests of our country. It is a prerequisite for every optimism for the future. Allow me, because in the last few days populism on the left and on the right is trying to give us lessons of patriotism, to define what patriotism will mean? Patriotism will say, especially now for the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we are repairing the country, we do everything it takes so that Greece becomes a strong, respected social, economic, military, diplomatic, political, institutional. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-annual duplication of aquarium must begin to be taught in the university schools of public administration and political science. For decades, governments - I accept - with good intentions and real will have finally attempted to activate this important development potential, to face up to the same obstacles: bureaucratic labyrinth, regulatory chaos, ocean of cohabitations, inclined interests, in the same hell - which has been undermining for decades almost every innovative, innovative, radical business plan in our country. So, despite the - and I say again - sincere and honest efforts by successive governments, the waterplanes remained on paper. This government has the will and experience and the ability to look carefully at what valid international indicators such as the Doing Business of the World Bank say about concrete interventions that can restore and take off the Greek economy. In this respect, this draft law substantially simplifys the regulatory parameters, facilitates the list of areas that can be established and operated by water, encourages more active involvement of the private sector in the construction of the necessary infrastructure and the operation of the facilities. Let it be pointed out, of course, that the challenge is to operate the water and services which will serve the summer tourist season of 2021. We must be realistic, but it must be done. Put in your place someone who wants to enter this market. The law must be passed, the destinations must come out, the business plan must be made, the so-called "growth fund", the forms of cooperation booking, booking with local communities, the search for planes, the licenses to buy planes, take pilots, take flight crews, train them, and then you can actually fly. But even so, an important, necessary step is being taken today by voting on this law. Also, the other provisions of the bill concerning the issues of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, and especially those relating - very importantly, we have said this with our colleague Corfu - the renewal of the bus fleets, public and private trucks, and the immediate granting of the temporary driving licence to anyone who passes the test and the test. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge for the current government - and I close, Madam President - is waterplanes, a constant request from the islands and especially the inhabitants of our small islands, the remote islands of the barren line, to start flying and serving within this parliamentary term. Let's take a look at our islands. Five-and-a-half years of migrating, open-door policy, ideological and suspicious assignment to skilled professionals of humanism management of national problems bring us to today, on the news we are seeing these days on our screens. The challenge is with actions such as control of non-governmental organisations, stricter border guarding, more intensive operation of the repatriation program, completion of closed hospitality centres to produce results that will alleviate the islanders, but also the people of the mainland, from the visible consequences of the tensions of migration, which for obvious reasons have to do with a reaction to the change of Greek foreign policy, Turkey. We shall be judged, ladies and gentlemen, by the results of the results. And this government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis is determined to produce the results that the country needs, which the citizens need. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u300	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Neocles Cretan from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes and Mrs Monoyi is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years ago the first hydroplane flight licence was issued in Greece. Today we are finally legislating to facilitate the creation of many waters on Greek territory. The main points introduced by the proposed draft law in relation to the existing institutional framework are, first, the possibility of granting and granting a single licence for the establishment and operation of a water service, maintaining the possibility of two stages of the current legislative framework, namely the granting of authorisation for the establishment and authorisation of a water service not only to a public body but also to a private body, thirdly, the issue of a water service authorisation without the requirement of inspection, so that the person concerned, by obtaining the permission to take the necessary steps under the law to build all the required infrastructure and facilities, fourthly, the possibility of granting a water service authorisation and to tourist ports, marines, shelters and anchors, areas of integrated tourist development, floating and complex tourist accommodation, fifthly, the possibility of training of the personal operation of the water service, marinas, shelters and anchorages, areas of integrated tourist development, floating and composite tourist accommodation, not only by the Office of an air transport service, but also by other authorities of an external air transport service. The new draft law essentially aims at developing the institutional framework, giving private investors an opportunity, on the one hand, and, on the other, simplifying and speeding up the procedures required for the licensing of water routes. It is therefore coming to improve the existing provisions allowing for the establishment of water services exclusively in OTAs, port funds, port agencies and other public bodies. By voting for the new framework, a marina or a hotel complex will be able to create its own water network without being dependent on a state agency. What does that mean? That the new bill opens the wings of waterplanes in Greece. Our intention is to dismantle the investments that have been taking place for years in the gears of bureaucracy and to create water routes from Attica and the islands of Argosaronic to the Peloponnese, the Ionian Sea, the Cyclades, Crete, the Dodecanese. By making a small historical retrograde, the operation of the waterways goes almost a century ago, since in 1918 the first flight permit was given, while since 1926 they were conducting routes from the Old Faliro to Constantinople. In 1929 Corfu acquired its own waterway, as was Rhodes, Symi and Kastelorizo. The advantages for our country will be great. Greece has sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline, two hundred twenty inhabited islands and a large number of lakes. It is obvious that the development of a water network will reshape the air transport system in the country, which will cover not only the tourist services but also the vital needs of the permanent inhabitants of the islands, especially in the winter months. This is a new form of air transport which will operate with a completely different role towards existing transport, given the geophysical nature of our country and the problems of accessibility. With regard to the facility offered by the new framework we are legislating, I say that until now for the adoption of a water route, an environmental impact study was needed. With the new bill this licence will be moved to the Ministry of the Environment from Category A to Category B, which will mean standard environmental commitments. In short, in time this is translated into a maximum of twenty days or a month, contrary to the about one year that is now required for an environmental impact study. I am sure that the adoption of the bill strengthens the development of a sustainable network that will enrich the tourism product and serve the best interconnection of the continent with destinations across borders and remote regions. Especially along the axis of western Greece and the Ionian Sea will be an extremely important factor in development in the region and not just with tourist effects. As a member of the Laconia Parliament, I am very pleased that the District Governor of Peloponnese Panagiotis Nikos negotiates the creation of a water network that will serve Kalamata, Monemvasia, Mani and Cyclone. I want to assure him from this point of view that I support this project and I believe that its implementation will make a major contribution to tourism, but also to the development of our local communities. It is clear that the wider benefits to local communities will be great and we believe it will provide valuable income and many jobs. I simply ask you to vote on this bill, which is a clear message from the government and a follow-up to its interventions aimed at strengthening the development framework for the country's uprooting and uplifting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u302	And we, Mr. Comrade. Ms Monument from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Sedetakis will be prepared, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u303	According to the list, Madam President, it is my turn to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u304	Haven't you changed? They're telling me now that you've made a change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u305	With who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u306	With Mrs. Monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u307	That's what they told me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u308	D to give me the floor after Mrs Monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u309	I'll give him to you right after, I just have this situation, she's announcing. Here, Mrs Monument, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this previous Parliament we remember the issue of water transport, how important it was for islanders to do so. The consultation and discussion began in 2016 and ended in 2018 by law of SYRIZA. Instead of solving problems with movements to the Aegean and the Ionian Sea and making the work so expected by the islanders, this law blocked various unsurpassed bureaucratic obstructions. You can imagine that he had forty-two administrative operations for each licence! The Government of New Democracy with the new bill makes simple procedures for issuing licences and enables individuals to obtain licences as well. Waterways are the beginning of the end of the isolation of islands and islands. The islands without airports acquire a new means of transport with the rest of the country. Apart from serving tourists, it helps transport residents, patients, products of immediate need, such as medicines. At the same time, it helps to develop all the islands. That is where we need to look at the implementation of the abolition of the motorway fee, to the inhabitants of the islands without an airport. That's my proposal. Long-term and banning connections will now be a past. The bill puts an end to the sense of isolation of all the inhabitants in the small islands. This government is responsible for dealing with the issues and problems of citizens with a view to better quality of life for the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u311	And we, my colleague. Mr Seedakis now has the floor, and then Mr Kotsos from New Democracy immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening with the bill we are discussing and we will vote - I want to believe - by an enlarged majority is unprecedentedly pleasant and I have to say it. It is one of the rare times that SYRIZA criticises us because we have not quickly implemented an important development plan and not because we have done something wrong in its judgment. So ask us why the waterplanes didn't fly. I welcome them to the world of development. Although it is not polite to welcome critically, I also have to ask the following question: Really, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why didn't they throw away the waterplanes for about five years when you were government? Perhaps because after many pressures and revolts you voted for a law, but for a year and a half, you did not give ten Joint Ministerial Decisions, as you were obliged to act on the law? You know, ladies and gentlemen, a law providing for regulations which are not adopted is an inactive law. You know that. Didn't the waterplanes also fly because you passed a law malfunctioning that if he was seen by an investor, would he be looking for the waterplanes to fly to leave? In any case, with the law that we bring, the investor should not exceed forty-two - yes, forty-two - administrative acts to obtain a licence to establish and operate. The law we are voting on introduces the possibility of approving a single permit for establishment and operation, extending the authorisation to tourist ports, but also to complex tourist accommodation. In simple terms, it is possible not only to municipalities, but also to private individuals, to operate water routes. And yes, there is a serious possibility that we can see waterplanes flying from it in the summer, that is, from this summer we can see what we see in the movies, where waterplanes land, are debilitated by being transported easily by tourists. And of course, not all of this will be at the expense of the environment. Besides, environmental protection was never the problem. They will be done with absolute respect and sensitivity to the environment, which has nothing to do with this kind of activity. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other issues in this bill, such as the granting of temporary driving licences, an innovation - I would say - of the Ministry of Transport in order not to trouble citizens, as well as issues relating to the possibility of hiring the CCT on lines that urban transport cannot serve. But let me close with an issue that concerns Crete, the issue of the BOAK. I consider it particularly positive that Article 64 refers to the need to amend the statutes of the Development Agency of Crete and to restore to it the competence of many major development projects. That's how it has to be. Development is the role of the OAS. That's why it was created. So we will now be waiting to see, on Saturday, which will visit Crete, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to launch the work of another major development project at Kastelli airport, further references to this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand we put the growth figures in place and implement everything that we have promised in the election to the Greek people, namely that we will change the image of our country. And we'll do it not with words, but with works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u313	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kotsos from New Democracy has the floor, and immediately thereafter Mr Papapas and Mr Nikolakopoulou will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u314	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill once again our Government, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, in drawing up a formulated policy, confirms in practice that it is determined to break down all the obstacles that hinder investment in Greece, making our country an international leader. After a decade of crisis, destruction, declining the economy and the standard of living of the citizens, closing hundreds of thousands of businesses, leaving abroad four hundred thousand young people, but also families, our country needs an investment revolution, a generalised investment revolution in order to raise capital, create new net jobs, remove "projects" from the scratches of bureaucracy, open professions, work economy, change psychology. It is a very important bet for all of us to change our country's image both internally and abroad, starting with points - stations, clarifying the institutional framework and simplifying the bureaucratic procedures in particular. For a country that has the blessing of having sixteen thousand kilometres of coastline, located in the ninth place worldwide, having about six thousand islands and islands, of which tens of seven inhabited, a phenomenon unique to the European continent, it is inconceivable that it should have no waterways when it has them since the 1920s and 1930s. Greece has an environment that can develop the largest network of waterplanes in the world not only for the service of residents and tourists, but also for the creation of intersecting and transporting of products, mainly agricultural and livestock and a newly promising tourist high product. So this bill comes to create new infrastructure and innovation in the water sector. It enables a single licence to be issued for the purpose of speeding up the licensing procedure for those wishing to establish and operate water routes. In other words, public bodies that are unable to finance infrastructure are being provided with flexibility, to carry out a diagnostic procedure for the operation of the water supply. The issue of licences is being facilitated, but more investors in the area are being attracted, generally contributing to the development of the waters. The right to set up is now also granted to private entities. The possibility of creating water resorts in areas of tourist ports, marinas, shelters, anchorages, areas of integrated tourist development and complex tourist accommodation is given. We amplify our country's tourist product by expanding visitability in areas of tourist interest, serving higher value tourist groups. I would like here to take you the example of Plastira Lake, which is a popular tourist destination and which I believe through the process of setting up and operating a water resort will serve even further tourist development, it will attract tourists of a higher economic level, since it is the closest airport in Plastira Lake Anchialos, which is at least two and a half hours away from the bus. I would like to remind you here that in 2005 Kostas Karamanlis and Demetrius Sioufas had been on government at that time in the Ministry of Development, a test flight which, unfortunately, did not succeed because of the bureaucratic turbulence. With the aquariums, ladies and gentlemen, the quality and easier accessibility of tourists in our region will be ensured and this will extend the visitability and further development of the Plastira Lake. New investment projects will be supported and launched by domestic entrepreneurs and new tourist products, parallel activities and new jobs will be created. Waterways are, however, not only necessary for our tourism but also ideal means for areas such as Karditsa, which are far away from land airport for the transport of agricultural and livestock products, as I said, for the transport of medicines, for hospital transport, for rescues mainly in the winter months. In addition to the above, however, for the waterways, this draft law also regulates issues relating to the modernisation of freight and passenger transport. And here, I would like to believe that the amount of EUR 40 million left for the renewal of the long-distance and urban bus fleet - which, if I’m not mistaken, Minister, has been around EUR 2 400 000, of which I have been informed that some 800 to 900 000 euros will be allocated to upgrading bus stations and a small amount to upgrade the fleet - will have to be further strengthened, because there is, indeed, a great need to modernise and renew the fleet of the CBELs and the urban and suburban. At this point, I should also like to point out a weakness in mountain and disadvantaged areas and concern the transport of pupils. Since there are no public-service cars - taxis, it must be possible for this transport to be made by individuals, as I have been doing with you. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, through an organised institutional framework, has declared a general upsurge so that our country can be investment friendly, giving the signal that Greece will become a hospitable and receptive destination for investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, too. Mr Ioannis Pappas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u316	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Dodecanese I travel on a regular basis on our islands. I meet the residents and discuss their problems and concerns. In Kastelorizo, Stratos and Clement asked me what we can do so that there would be no drug shortages and that we would have to keep going across. Kalliopi, Nicandros, Marigoo from Karpathos, Minas, Lily from Kassos, Varvara, Theologian and Nicholas from Astypalea talked to me about the huge problem in the islands' connection. I've lived up to what he's trying to say in an exact line, what it means to wait for the ship to be tied to the port. I heard the same concerns in Kalymnos, Patmos, Symi, Tylos, Halki. Even in Agathonisi my friend Maritsa, who makes sweets, is looking to find out how these wonderful sweets of Agathonissius can go all over Greece and become known. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-project that we are voting on today can provide a solution to these problems. It can create conditions and prospects so that our islands can connect with each other. It can solve years of problems, it can attract funds and investments that will primarily benefit our islanders. With the multi-project we bring, we don't find out about the wheel. We're just doing self-evident things. It may sound unprecedented, but for the Dodecanese the waterplanes are not innovation. About a century ago, there were waterways in Mandraki, Rhodes, Kastelorizo, Leros, Symi and other islands, when the Dodecanese were not yet attached to Greece. So it is our duty to reopen the water roads, at least, before the century passes. That's why we put an end to the uncertainty, the humiliation and the pathogens that existed and characterized the Greek state over time. Unfortunately, until eight months ago, we had a government that did everything to strengthen these pathogens, the SYRIZA government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today and we are speeding up the procedures. We are granting a single licence for the establishment and operation of a waterway, and we are establishing a clear and integrated institutional framework. In this way, we are creating the conditions for attracting more investors, developing a large water network, the network that was unable to survive in Greece between 2004 and 2008, due to bureaucracy and the chaos of responsibilities. More mature today and taking a step forward, we give the possibility of authorizing the establishment of a water service, not only to public bodies, but also to private individuals. This is an important difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We are in favour of private initiative. We do not regard private investors as bad wolves or a bad demon of our economy, we do not fight, we do not hamper healthy private initiative. With our legislative intervention, investors can go ahead with the implementation of these projects, projects that will bring immediate economic benefits to the state, projects that create new jobs, development projects and create opportunities. At the same time, the bill provides for the possibility of training the staff operating the water service, not only by the PSC, but also by other certified bodies of both the interior and abroad. Waterways have another aspect. They can be a lever of tourist development, which our islands need, and the whole country needs. The heavy industry of the Greek economy will acquire another weapon, will be able to cope with a competitive environment, offering high quality travel and transport services. This bill opens up the possibility of creating water not only in ports and lakes, but also in areas of tourist ports, in marinas, in shelters, in anchorages. This is how we facilitate and broaden the visitability of tourist regions. The country's tourism product is being strengthened and it is becoming even more attractive. Everyone will be able to get to know the beauty of Greece, even in the most remote and small part of it. The bill, ladies and gentlemen, has greater value for something else. Every waterplane that is inhabited will not only carry people, goods, food or medicines, but will also carry a message that will be constantly renewed. A message to our islanders that no one forgets them, that no matter how far the distance is, it can be shortened. Waterways will deepen the sense of security for our islanders, for islanders who rightly feel that the state of Athens has forgotten them. We do not, however, forget them, Mr Minister, and we are here to prove this by action rather than by thick words and promises. The draft law, which is being passed today, is the act and the investments are about to be made. The development in this case is not empty. Our aim is to multiply for the benefit of the Greek people. I will not get tired and will not stop repeating it from this Step: in Dodecanese the heart of Greece, in the Dodecanese, is the gaze of the whole planet. We must ensure that the inhabitants of the Dodecanese do not face any other shortcomings, they will never feel forgotten and disfellowshipped, they will not feel unsafe. We must ensure that there are no shortages of priority species on our small islands, isolated. We must strengthen the economic development prospects of the region. Waterways are a step in this direction, it is a way of solving problems that have existed for many years. It is a step in strengthening the sense of security for residents, it is a step forward in economic development. That is why I urge you once again to put all of you away your ideas and obsessions and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Nicholas has the floor and Mr Voloudakis prepares.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the present draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure, the current government is coming to implement another crucial commitment to the Greek people. This is a commitment, which concerns the implementation of a project of national scope, such as the operation of waterplanes in Greece, starting from this summer. It is a project that is part of the overall development planning of the New Democracy and that needs the country for a strong, sustainable and balanced development, because infrastructure and highly well-designed infrastructure mean growth and each euro invested in them is back about twice as much in the national economy. Such projects mean jobs. Here, we differ considerably both in our philosophy and in policy being pursued by the previous government. We all remember how painful this project is, a victim of irresponsible and indifferent policy and ideological shades of syriza days. Of course, this is confirmed by the total absence of SYRIZA Members in the debate of today's bill. And of course we all remember what happened with a lot of other works such as, for example, the Greek flagship project or the Patras - Tower road axis and its fragmentation that put it in the air. That is what the citizens are well aware of. Fortunately for this place these days belong to the past, as the New Democracy Government consistently and determinedly proceeds with the implementation of a national development plan in what the country needs in the neural sector of infrastructure and investment. Because they are critical projects linked to national development objectives, projects highlighting the comparative advantages of each region, projects that bring growth through investment and private participation, as is the case in all modern countries, projects that create jobs and stimulate the economy and local communities. Such a flagship work, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the establishment and operation of a water network which marks a change in the country's development path, as the interventions of today's bill make real benefits. These are interventions as critical for our islands and the coastal cities that are scattered in a land such as Greece. These interventions of the bill are also crucial for the Elias Prefecture, which has ports and lakes that meet the conditions for the construction and operation of watercourses such as Cylini, Katakolo and Lake Kaiafa. Investment interest has already been shown in these areas, while many years the projects have been left on paper, due to the bureaucratic obstacles and confrontations and its distortions to date. With these interventions we favour tourism, trade, transport and the strategic investments we so much need for the recovery of our economy and the development of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, as a party we believe that the way to the recovery of the Greek economy is judged by our investment policy, a policy that we know well and deeply believe as a party. In this respect, today's bill has a strong investment sign. In particular, through the possibility of authorising the establishment of a water service, not only to a public body but also to a private body, an investment opportunity is created for individuals with significant development prospects, facilitating the development of water services, since many public bodies are unable to finance the necessary infrastructure and other facilities in the water service and to prepare relevant studies of the technical file required prior to the application for authorisation. At the same time, we are enabling the construction of water infrastructures within the framework of strategic investments aimed at encouraging, actively supporting and strengthening companies operating in this area. Most of all, we are making progress in simplifying the licensing procedures for the waterways and providing flexible funding for them whether they are made and operated by public bodies or by private bodies, and in this respect we are ensuring that competitive procedures initiated during the life of Law 4568/2018 are not cancelled, so that delays in the establishment and operation of these infrastructures can be completed and avoided. With the right design at the centre we are surpassing institutions, we are promoting counter-territorial procedures for the approval, evaluation and implementation of projects, we are encouraging investments in order to fill the big investment gap left to us by the crisis and the hostile policy of the previous government towards private investors. The benefits of today's intervention are extremely important and I would say multiplely about the country's economy through the stimulation of tourism resulting from the operation of waterplanes and in particular from the possibility of granting water taxi to tourist ports, marinas, shelters and anchorages, areas of integrated tourist development and complex tourist accommodation. New tourist products, parallel activities, as well as new interest in investment in property and other services in islands and coastal cities, are therefore being created. At the same time, it facilitates and expands the visitability of tourist areas and strengthens the Greek tourism product by attracting and serving visitors of higher tourist value. Also, through this intervention, remote areas now acquire an air link and a short approach from urban centres and airports. You understand, ladies and gentlemen, how important this is not only for the tourist development of our outermost regions, but also for emergency services, such as aerospace patients and search and rescue operations. Also extremely important are the provisions on the possibility of making direct international flights to Greek waters both from and to States that have ratified and implemented the Schengen Treaty and those which have not ratified it. Ladies and gentlemen, the operation of water routes connects our urban centres to the outermost regions, joins Greece with the rest of the world, promotes a framework for combined transport and stimulates tourist development throughout the territory, but also in the regions of the country that need so much as is the region of Elias, which I have the honour to represent. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that, after today's bill, our country enters another development path that will create important conditions for economic prosperity. I therefore invite you to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u319	We too, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and three teachers from the 2nd General School of Sparta. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Voloudakis now has the floor and Mr Loading is being prepared by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a few years in Greece, we have been listening and we do not see water routes. An infrastructure that would provide additional tourist traffic, an additional tourist income from high-level tourists, which would ensure links that the contractual means do not guarantee, for some reason it has not developed in our country. And the reason why it has not developed is bureaucracy and a distorted institutional framework. With the bill, which today comes to the vote and which we are discussing these days, I believe that there is a breakthrough both in the philosophy of the approach - as, contrary to what is foreseen by the relevant law of SYRIZA, it is now possible to invest in this regard either the public or private investor - but there is also a great change in the simplification of procedures. What prevented most investors was how complex the licensing process for a water route was. I believe that today, with the bill, it is being dealt with. There is an institutional framework which is effective and favourable to investment. I am sure that soon we will see results from this. I am sure that very soon we will see investments and links, which are very crucial to our tourism, but also to transport within the country. I would like to say a few words about one of the provisions other than the issue of airports, Article 64 of the bill, which refers to the Crete Development Agency. This amends the Statutes of the Crete Development Agency. There is an amendment that comes to adapt the Agency to the current data. When we founded the 2013 agency, we established that the Minister only designates the CEO and president is always ex officio then the Secretary-General of the decentralised administration. On the way, the Secretary-General of the decentralised administration has ceased to exist as a poster post as a political post. Since then it has been replaced by the coordinator of decentralised administration. What happened in practice was something that weakened the organisation, because when we founded the organisation the spirit of the establishment of the board was that through the Secretary-General of the decentralised administration they were, in a way, represented by the government, thus facilitating the communication of the agency with the ministries. This is the purpose of the change that is being made today where it is established that the President is also appointed by a Minister's decision and that is correct. Now both the President and the CEO are appointed by decision of the Minister. They're and they have to be high-qualified people with a degree in professional experience. I think this will help the organization get back ahead. I'm using this term because the SYRIZA government has seen this organization hostilely from the beginning. He removed responsibilities, took the BOAK NICE, the address that he had the responsibility of the BOAK and in general tried to deceive, weaken the organization and return everything to the center, the Ministry, that is to say, to make the reverse move from what we had done in 2013. In 2013 we wanted, by setting up the organisation, to create a structure in Crete, which would have full control of the major infrastructure projects in Crete, the issues that had to do not only with public works, but also with water management and with a number of other issues, using pre-existing services and institutions, saving resources and making a more powerful organisation. This took a road to dissolution in SYRIZA's years. Fortunately before the Agency for the Development of Crete fell the SYRIZA government, so today we are coming - even with some delay, Minister, I have to say to him - to restore the situation with regard to the Management Board. Mr Minister, the effective restoration of competences, the return of responsibilities that SYRIZA has removed from the Crete Development Agency, which is, of course, our goal. I am sure you will say in the course of the debate and in the closure more about it, because at the moment the shortcomings in the Crete infrastructure require an answer. The major issue of Crete is, of course, the BOAK, there has been a very long debate in recent years, there has also been a debate on funding, and I want to believe that we are close to the final shape. We have a positive development with the apparent possibility of using the profits of Europe's central banks returning to Greece to finance the project. In this context, the lack of competences and the way in which the administration is to be solved is what I call for to be resolved as soon as possible. We no longer have an excuse. I am sure you will do the right thing and we will be here to praise and demand what is right and what is right to monitor in the parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Loadingmas has the floor and then Mr. Boutsikakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law on the establishment and operation of airports on water surfaces, that is to say, the rational institutional framework necessary to create and develop the necessary infrastructure for the country, given its geophysical nature and its island character and the problems of accessibility which have arisen and which have been a matter for years. Our country has had and needs water infrastructure so that we can finally use waterplanes for transport to islands, in remote coastal areas, complementary to the coastline. The framework that had been established suffered from various ambiguities and considerable bureaucratic burdens. To a large extent, it made it practically impossible to attract investors and, in particular, to implement such investments. So our Government, faithful to its own commitments and to its plan for systematic and profitable investments in our country again demonstrates its political effectiveness. With the current and current bill, it is part of those legislative initiatives, which respond to a long-term request, but on the other hand, they are a serious step towards our Greece becoming more friendly as an investment destination of course, making sea transport easier and more difficult, especially in small island areas, but at the same time it is able to improve our tourism product by making it more efficient and competitive. Thus, multi-annual discussions on the construction of suitable watercourses for the use of waterplanes were not complete despite investors' interest, as well as their efforts as a whole because of the paralysing institutional framework, but also demanding bureaucracy. Unfortunately, according to the previous SYRIZA legislative framework, it was compulsory to adopt ten joint ministerial decisions and ministerial decisions, which were not adopted for one and a half years and, as you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, a law which lays down regulatory provisions, without them being adopted, is, in fact, an inappropriate law. As you can see very well, the existing regime was, in practice, dysfunctional. Of course, then, the then Minister of Government SYRIZA, Mr. Spirtzis, on October 3, 2018, in his speech about the existing legislative framework, emphasised, of course, the functionality of the law and, of course, stressed that "we want to bet on ourselves and on society and achieve it". So no one else has succeeded. So, within three years with three completely different legislative frameworks, this bill comes to bring about this change. At that time, the Minister pointed out that “in three months, there will be a holistic strategic plan for all the waters of the country and in April 2019 there will be permits for the majority of the country's waters.” I'm also presenting the speech quote for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philipbos Chartomas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned quote of the speech, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Nevertheless, for our small islands, the whole challenge, from this bill, is very important and very great. In any case, bureaucratic relief is very important as the number of ministerial decisions required is reduced in relation to the existing legislative framework. So we now have water routes that can operate on many islands in the country and in coastal and coastal areas and be a forerunner for significant investment in the country. It is clear, therefore, that the Government once again demonstrates its consistent attitude to liberalisation, but also to the promotion of investment and thus to the opening up of markets by continuing faithfully and consistently its own planning for the recovery of the Greek economy. At this point, I would also like to thank the Ministry's leadership, as well as the State Secretary, Mr Giannis Kefaloniannis, who made it clear that, especially for the islands with limited port facilities, the existing passenger waiting areas can be used for the needs of the waterways. Construction of the watercourses is a social and national obligation of the state, mainly to strengthen the small islands and geographically remote areas, such as Kimolos, Folegandros and Anafis, which, through the launch of waterplanes, are to acquire a new means of transport, interconnection and service. In this spirit of the government's development policy, the bill stipulates that water routes may be subject to a strategic investment scheme. Under Article 4 of the draft law, an investment for a water route can be defined as a strategic investment under the conditions of Law 4608/2019 and receive financing from the investment law, which we had brought together. It is also symbolic that this draft law on the waterways includes important arrangements for the emblematic investment of the Greek. Finally, I would like to say this. I feel very proud to be a Member of the Greek Parliament, and also of the Prefecture of Cyclades, a region of islands which finds itself in a variety of transport problems, especially in the small and the most remote islands, now that the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis brings forth a vote - and is ready to implement - the water and water bill, thus extending the prospects for the development of this blessed place, which I have the pleasure, the honor and the luck to represent. So I am convinced that we, the islanders, will now enjoy a new perspective, with an additional possibility of moving, which is very important and we are mainly living it in the winter months and, at the same time, will positively overturn our own data. For all these reasons, I am also voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u323	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Boutsikakis from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr. Kavvadas is prepared, also from New Democracy, and immediately after Mr. Mamoulakis from SYRIZA. Mr. Boutsikaki, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important areas of today's bill is temporary driving licences, a section which serves all citizens. We all know in this Chamber that since someone's going to succeed in the exams, it might take a semester to get his license. Today we are ending this expectation, ending bureaucracy and delays. Whoever passes the tests the next day will be able to drive his car. All of us will be able to print the temporary driver's license directly from our computer. This means, in practice, simplifying procedures and digitising services. And now I'm on my way to the waterways. For the record, to say that their use in our country began a hundred years ago, in the 1920s with maritime airports in many areas. Small requirements in infrastructure mainly facilitated domestic and external flights. In those years Greece was the station of foreign companies in flights to Asia and Africa. Their operation in our country stopped just before the start of World War II. They then appeared again in 2004 until 2008. At this time some eighteen thousand flights were made and a hundred eighty thousand passengers were moved, without causing any problems in flight safety. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Gentlemen of the counterpopulation, in 2018, and you voted for a law on the waterways, but it stayed on paper, because with what you voted not a single licence could be issued. We don't stay in the talk today. It is time that the investments we have been hearing for a long time become a reality, but in order to do so, our country must finally have an appropriate legislative framework. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not difficult to develop a water network. So to run the procedures, we are dealing with bureaucracy and we are facilitating licensing. From such a network we will benefit all citizens, but also from the market. The small islands will benefit in particular, the ones that do not have an airport, and the inhabitants of these islands have a travel problem. As a member of Piraeus I think it is extremely important that this network extends to the islands of the Argosaronic. I do not hide from you that many of my fellow citizens are complaining about connecting their islands with Piraeus. The movement of waterplanes can solve these problems. The Argosaronic takes many and often daily routes across all the means of transport all year round. So we'll have another choice for our moves. Beyond islanders the same choice will be made by doctors, teachers and many other professionals working on the islands and going daily. It will also be a new option that can help to move timely to emergency situations. One thing is certain, that more choices means increasing competition, so profit for residents, gain for visitors too. Increasing competition means better provision of services, lower transport costs. Even a euro less is important. But the benefits are not just those. The better interconnection of the islands with the rest of Greece will lead to increased tourism. Our islands should also be given the necessary marinas to allow for the development of yoting. This will result in hundreds of jobs and attracting wealthy tourists with many benefits for the local economy. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, is it not unfair for some of you not to vote for this bill, what will bring new jobs? Isn't it unfair for young people who have no job and are forced to leave their island, their family, their loved ones, since they have to go to town to find a job? So let us strengthen our islands and the outermost regions, especially in the winter months that we so need. With the law we are voting today, we aspire to have seaplane flights in the year, perhaps even until summer. We are creating hundreds of jobs, which will stimulate the local market in order to develop the economy, to benefit society and to advance the country. That is what we want, that is what we will do, which is why we are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Kavadas Athanasios from New Democracy is called in Stepma, followed by Mr. Mamoulakis Charalambos from SYRIZA. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the government comes to give a way out and a sustainable solution to the issue of the creation of water, which is a necessary treaty for the start of seaplanes' routes. The previous government with Law 4568/2018 overturned the institutional framework, which it found ready to create water. The law brought by SYRIZA was intended to prevent investment efforts in this sector. It relies on an outdated statement, adopting an extreme bureaucratic model. It is true that for the establishment of a water route forty-two licences or administrative acts were required and only a public body had the right to lodge an application for a water service licence. In fact, it forced private investors, who had advanced their licensing procedures, to transfer the licence to a public body in summary procedures. With all this, it is not a question of wondering that since 2014 the only licenses, which went ahead, were based on New Democracy Law 4146. Since then, no licenses have been issued by Law 4568/2018 and, of course, there has been no single route, since it is reasonable that, to fly waterplanes, there should be even one elementary water network. Today the government comes to reshape a rational framework for their authorisation. A framework that attracts investment initiatives, simplifies the processes and creates a wide network of water networks across Greece, which will give growth to the islands mainly and our tourism. The bill enables not only a public body but also private individuals to proceed with the licensing of a water service, separating the phase of establishment from the stage of operation. Flexible procedures are being adopted, which deal effectively with the bureaucratic obstacles posed in the previous law. I shall mention, for example, the possibility of issuing a licence for the establishment of a waterway without requiring inspection, which will take place at the time of the licence. In this way, the investor will be able to proceed directly to the projects and infrastructure needed to enable the installations to operate. In fact, there is provision for the setting-up of a small and flexible committee for the inspections of the waters to be carried out, as I have said, before the authorisation is granted. There is also the possibility of authorising water supply in marinas, but also in concessional ports, which creates the conditions for a wide network of water in the country as well as for combined transport. At the same time, there is the possibility of training the staff of the waterways not only from the Civil Aviation Service, but also from other certified bodies in Greece and abroad. It is also important that this bill does not start the process from the beginning, canceling every effort that has been made on the issue of licensing, something that the previous government has done. This is because, with the transitional provisions that exist, everyone who has started a licensing procedure, is able to continue to unblock, since there are now rapid and simplified procedures with the new institutional framework. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the government has formulated this institutional framework to attract investment initiatives, to support entrepreneurship. Because high growth rates and jobs are created by the private sector, which is difficult to understand by those who remain committed to their ideas. The victim of these ideas also dropped the waterplanes during the country's governance period by the SYRIZA government, since under normal conditions, today, they should be flying all over Greece and a wide network of waterways has been created. In adopting the draft legislation we are debating today, the procedures for establishing and issuing authorisations are consolidated. The next stage - since the necessary infrastructure and facilities have been set up - is flight clearance by the companies, which have already shown interest. It is necessary to start the routes, as I mentioned earlier, to have an elementary network of waterways. Let me mention the relatively high degree of ripening, in terms of the operation of the waters in the Ionian Islands region. At the moment, there are three licensed water stations in Corfu, Paxos and Patras, which can be a starting point or an intermediate station for the Ionian islands. Starting from these three licensed waters, it is possible to run the procedures immediately, to start the waterways on the Ionian islands, first from all over Greece. It is necessary to run quickly the licensing procedures for the operation of the waters in Kefalonia, Ithaca, Zakynthos, Lefkada and Megalissi, so that the islands can be interconnected and harmonized to their tourism and economy. At this point, Minister, and because the transport sector is crucial, not only for the development of a place, but above all for the safety of residents and visitors, I would like to ask once again for your assistance in the completion of the long road axis Akti - Ambrosia. I know from the meetings that I have made with the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Karamanlis, as well as with you, Mr Kefaliannis, both himself and the Ministry make the best possible, after years of wrong choices, so that this great project can restart and complete. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill liberalises investment initiatives for the creation of water routes throughout the country, but also for the development of a waterplane transport network that will have a positive sign for the development of island areas and for our tourism. The country has suffered enough from outdated dogmatism and ideologies. A fundamental sense of responsibility requires that it be voted on. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Nikolaos Syrizas will be followed again by SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the legislator of this draft law is inspired by the perception, 'even if the law does not need to be implemented, we must in any case legislate'. What do I mean? The government has baptised a draft law on the substantial re-introduction of the law of the SYRIZA Government with minor amendments - the truth is - in such a way that a collar of heterogeneous provisions can be introduced. For this reason, in my brief position, which I will concentrate on the waters and, of course, the Greek, which again has its honor, the government's overall perception of the management of public property will, in essence, prove to be evidenced by the government. The main difference in the present draft law and our own law, Law 4568/2018, is the possibility of establishing and operating water routes without the participation of the public. In the view of the legislator of the previous government, the reluctance to deal with such a strategy was, in particular, related to the concern that the process of issuing licences on the private sector alone would lead to a chaotic, transport landscape in this sector. At the same time, in the present draft law, the Government abolishes the restriction on the duration of the authorisations to set up a water network without any commitment by the private investor for the operation of the plant in question. On the same basis, the draft law avoids specifying the terms and conditions under which authorisations will be withdrawn. This will inevitably lead to an abuse of these licences, a secondary market through their sale, but also unfair competition practices, through which different investors will try to bind ports to prevent their competitors from expanding. All you have to do is think of how the production licence has worked on renewable energy, which you are right today to abolish. And then, you'll understand the distortions you're going to create. Colleagues and colleagues of the government, the development of a mature market in water transport is a complex project which, in fact, requires a lot of effort and intergovernmental coordination, as the explanatory memorandum states. However, the main challenges faced by the State to achieve this objective are not addressed in this draft law. The basic principle with which the issue of water transport needs to be dealt with is as follows: Their establishment must obey a specific spatial thinking. The private sector will have to be integrated into it precisely. In this respect, today's bill unfortunately makes no provision. As appropriate, the main source of delays in the establishment of watercourses is unclearness in treating their environmental licence, which is the main source of delays. In this respect, too, the bill by Mr Kefaliannis and the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure offers nothing. However, I feel that in today's debate we cannot make reference to the Greek data and to the amendments which have been introduced, but also to specific verses that the draft law states. The Greek, ladies and gentlemen, we are not only seeing it as an example of opposition, which the New Democracy made to the July elections, but also as an example of how the government manages, which ultimately confuses your spirit as a whole in terms of attracting private investment in the country. A key point, which I am talking about for the Greek, could not have been the part of the dismantling, normalization and potential vowing of buildings. It is a great deal of money and the cost that will be borne by the person who will bear it. Of course, I must say that Mr Kefaloyannis in committee said that this cost would be borne by the contracting company, the company that will actually operate, by the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ in this case, except for the special disaster unit, which, of course, as a structure of the Greek State and the Armed Forces, is obviously to be borne by the State. However, I would like to ask again the question from the Step in plenary. I hope that this will be respected. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the costs of the removal and diversion of cleansing and excavation products in a way permitted by the authorities are too great. A rough approach - I invoke my status as a political engineer - flirts with an amount of more than EUR 10 million. This, as you can see, cannot be influenced by the Greek public. Public expenditure on this cannot be incurred when it is expressly stated in the contract that it is an obligation for that company to take care of it. We expect and hope that this will be respected. Because, as you can see, beyond the economic dimension, there is also a strong political issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the exploitation of the Greek had at its core a completely anachronistic and subordinate to the desires of private capital, with regard to urban regenerations in the urban fabric of the Greek cities and, at the same time, an incorrect strategy on the way and conditions under which the private sector can participate in such projects. All over Europe, in cases where public spaces are exploited within the urban fabric by involving the private sector, it is precisely the reverse process: First, it identifies the public uses and the nature of the area concerned and then examines the prospects for private sector participation, its nature and alternative forms of financing. In Greek, therefore, the whole process was wrong from the outset. The private investor, from the outset, identified the natural object and the conditions of privatisation and the public, on the basis of the contract signed with Samaras, was called upon to regulate the extent, at all times, of the investor as his obligation. This contract was inherited by our own government. Today, despite your election populism, you like that logic, the Samara Convention. Sadly, therefore, and despite the enormous failure of investing in Greek, the government today seems to want to take this example as a successful example, to be applied elsewhere. And I now come to the case of financing the airport of Kastelli, for the parallels of the examples. For the Airport of Kastelion, Heraklion Airport is naturally presented to be committed to the immediate use of the area there. This also governs the logic of the European Bank, to take care of areas that have been environmentally burdened in previous years. In other words, the Environmental Data Sheet says that - to take account of the need for a society itself, environmentally, to take care of the next day in an area such as the former 'N.Kazadzakis' airport, in a fragile and urban neighbourhood, in the Nea Alikarnassos, Heraklion. It is a very large property of exceptional interest - often we mention it in Crete as the Greek of Crete - which has special characteristics. What are you doing here? The possibility of selling this area and ignoring all the local authorities of the island and the city is at least scandalous. Let me note that there was no slightest information available to the local government of the island, in factors, even to Members of the House in Crete, on this matter. At the same time, therefore, a contract was signed which, even now, we have called for the body of the Convention to be further informed - there are many ambiguities and asterisks. All this is happening while the relevant ministers know how to sign Memorandums with the EIB, but they do not know how to inform the National Representation and the local society of their intentions and planning. In conclusion, therefore, I call for the leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure to be placed on the subject. Will you proceed to the immediate privatisation of the area of Heraklion airport, yes or no? And if so, what is the feasibility of this move for you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u329	I should like to call SYRIZA, and Mr. Alexandros - Christos again from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak exclusively about the waters and the reservations I have, because I am not a member of the Committee on Production and Trade, so I have not followed all the debate before, which was obviously, from what I have heard from the rapporteurs, very fertile and that is why it has also made some improvements in relation to the original bill. First of all, I would like to say that the issue of water and waterplanes is a very important issue, which will obviously help tourism in our country and will obviously also help the island regions from which I come, especially the Cyclades. I would like to say, however, that we must all consider why, together with today's three legislative frameworks, three legislations. And all right, accept the delays, the ideas, all of which you are accusing us of as SYRIZA on the New Democracy side. However, from 2013, when the first law was adopted by 2018, our law - which had these problems and delayed the joint ministerial decisions, yes, we all know - how many licences were issued? They were issued, if I'm not mistaken, three permits. What was he blocking? Has the institutional framework of the 2018 Act prevented these companies from moving forward or were there any other kind of problems that would not satisfy the companies so that so many companies that would claim authorisations could appear? I mean the following. I attended a conference in Syros six to seven years ago, where he had come and interested Canadian waterplane company, which wanted to move forward, to get permission. Of what was discussed there, and what I understood, is that, although hydroplane is a means of transport which can, in particular, help remote islands, but cannot be the main means of transport, at least, for the islands. Hydroplane is an auxiliary, secondary means of transport, which assists shipping and also assists the air connections of normal to date, as we know, planes, but it cannot replace them. And it cannot, firstly, because it cannot be a means of public transport, it is a small size and, secondly, what I saw at that conference - the presence of the Canadian company - was that the cost of the ticket is clearly higher than the cost of air transport for the same distances. Therefore, those who use the hydroplane should be with high incomes and for very specific reasons. It's gonna be a kind of airplane, I'd say, and an airplane somehow. So I say that the waterplane really is useful, it can help islands which do not have airports or there is no feasibility of becoming an airport. Think about this, because in the end in this country, we cultivate attitudes that every island and airport, every village and field, they used to say. There are islands in our Cyclades, which, in fact, if the waterplane enters, will help, for example Tinos, Mr.Tinos, Mr. Chartomas's country, Ios, Amorgos, Sifnos, Sifnos, Serifos, and other small islands as well as in the Dodecanese and Ionian Islands, etc. In no case, however, can it replace these modes of transport that we know so far. That is the issue. The second issue on which we have a great deal of objection is the problem of establishing a licence. It is well done by the legislator and sometimes gives the right to a uniform authorisation for the establishment and authorisation of a licence. However, from there on, the establishment and operation. I would accept and would like the establishment to be from the public. Because the public is what it is planning, the public is what makes the prerequisites, and spatially and in all respects, where and how to make the water route and who controls it, who oversees the entire traffic of waterplanes, etc. From that point on, the licence is licensed. The individual will really be able to take this leave, but he has approved the public. There you have the reverse idea. If we have the public's idealism, you have a private ideoscopy, who can make a waterway in front of his pentaster. It's like a helipad road. Let's figure that out. He can't be in every area. We in the Cyclades have areas where some land has been somehow imprisoned or landed with great interests and they also make a helmet of their own. So, what are we gonna do now? Will we also allow them to make a water road to serve the VIPs that will bring from Great Britain and which will not spend a penny in the context of local society? Therefore, the water and tourist ports and organised tourist development areas need spatial planning, they need maritime spatial planning, they need to be consistent with the new framework, the special spatial planning for tourism, which is being processed and which, if not incorporated with all this, will be in the air. Also, I don't know if you've called the Association of Greek Warships and Sparklers. I think you didn't invite him to tell you his point of view on these issues. Therefore, for all these reasons, we say 'yes' to the waterways, but we say 'no' to the abolition of the public in relation to the establishment of these waters. This means that we shall vote'residents' in principle, of course by voting in many articles in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 8th Kozani High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I'd like to invite Mr. Aylonite Alexander from SYRIZA to Stepma. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my position on a flagrant amendment that is being discussed today, at the same time as the bill. It's about an investment on my island, Corfu, in the Cassiope area that you all know. You see it every night in the media. Mr. Georgiadis, the Minister, keeps calling about this investment. You bring her in last night, too. Luckily, when we vote, the sun won't be set. It is your usual practice, which - I do not hide that - I do not like and I will tell you why I do not like it. Because it seems that you are not touching on what we say about democracy, which is based on participation, consultation on such an important issue, which I will raise, or which I will try to make. It seems that the investment in the Greek, in which you have invested - we are still looking to find the bulldozers in the Greek - and so you turned to northwest Greece, to my home country, the island of Corfu, in the region of Kassiopi, to the Erimitis, so we call it. Mr Georgiadis, as I see it, has literally conquered the capacity of the dealer of this investment by the company 'CAPITAL' in recent days. You know it 'CAPITAL'. It is a company that is looking for such countries as us in bankruptcy to make its investments. And even, day-night on the channels threatens the municipality of the Municipality of Corfu - there is the remnant - that if it does not pass an elevation study of this company, it will legislate and take this responsibility of the North Corfu City Council, all the municipal councils throughout the territory, because it characterizes - so it has been baptized - as a national character. And the dogs tied up. So here is the amendment today to discuss it. You are ignoring, however, Ministers, the self-sufficiency of self-government, ignore the public consultation I have said before, ignore the distinction between the responsibilities of central government and self-government, and in order to authorize a private company, all of this, you throw it in the basket of the useless, with the logic of Mr Georgiadis: 'Do you know who I am, Mr Mayor?' That's it. Mr Georgiadis is a very democratic minister. Good for him. You ignore the institutional framework governing self-government, you ignore the fact that the municipal authority has different views from you, and above all you ignore the vast majority of the place that does not want cementing one - take care of it - of the three remaining virgins of my island, Corfu. Fly sometime with a helicopter over Corfu to see how it's cemented. It's an area of unparalleled natural beauty. But tragic is not the investment itself, which we could talk about. The tragic thing is that the New Democracy MP on the island, Mr Gikas, speaks and speaks of those who object to them as some people who do not want the investment. Really, are some kind of strange people in northern Corfu? Is Mr. Dendias a strange type, your government's Minister for Foreign Affairs and your dear friend and fellow lawyer? Are there some strange guys who were running a municipality of our island who unanimously refused this, the regional council - I've been talking since 2010 - the regional authority? So all these are strange guys against you and the congressman. Watch out for what happened. You've lifted up the place - I'm talking about the other day, I'm not talking about this investment long ago. And listen. The city council the other day was surrounded - around the police to avoid incidents being created at its meeting. One is that. Secondly, after being - well or badly - the meeting was postponed and five municipal councillors left the city authority, one of which is the president of the municipal council, two vice mayors and others, and goes to the dissolution of the Municipality of North Corfu, a newly established municipality, for all that Mr Georgiadis claims. I do not think there is much respect for self-government in the way you act. In other words, because it does not go through an elevation study, not because they want it, but for certain essential and formal reasons, we are voting today on an amendment: 'What do you say to me, Mr Mayor, what do you say to me, major municipal councillors? It's me. I'll vote. That's how I like it." That's the logic. I have the impression that this is done with the cover of the Prime Minister. This photographic amendment that you want to vote on today, Mr Ministers, is, in my view, my party's institutional and politically obscured energy, and I am energizing it by my words, or trying to activate local government across the territory, which takes away from it a responsibility under this provision - for projects that say they are both emblematic for investment - and take it because a mayor in Corfu does not want this investment. Is that what you think it's democratic? If so, let the local government speak. We, of course, will not vote for this amendment and I am heard by many Corfiots today, in my position. I'll tell you something else about the waterways. Does anyone doubt that a legislative framework that is clear and self-friendly for private individuals on the water roads did not want it by the SYRIZA Government or do we not want it now as an Opposition? You're wrong. I think if there's such a framework that attracts individuals, it's good. The implementation of the process of creating the water network is a matter of stating that you, the Ministry, are doing so. Good. The world isn't lost. I think you're doing well to a fairly large extent and we don't disagree. He said so as well as our rapporteur. We note, however, that the SYRIZA government has introduced Law 4568/2018. I do not think that the bill helps you, however, especially with environmental permits, so that their extradition process can be accelerated, which must be noted to have been a significant and persistent effort by the previous government in this area. We're stuck in bureaucratic claws with this bill. As a member of the island region of Corfu, I want rapid permits for other islands in the wider area. Today we know that only the waters have been licensed in Corfu, Paxos and Patras. In order to have a network of water routes, of eight, i.e. a water resort, it is required that the Region of Ionian Islands proceed to the tender procedure for the placement of domestic passenger services and, in general, to immediately complete the loose ends in the waters of Kefalonia, Ithaca, Lefkada, Megalesi and Zakynthos, following a programme agreement made by the former regional authority, which was of SYRIZA, if you remember well. That is what I want, but it does not guarantee your bill, ladies and gentlemen. And I shall end by saying this: I am referring to the provision concerning the ERCF. I have a personal opinion because I met the workers at the CCTV. I fear that the repeal of the CBEL regulation will bring about daily redundancies of workers. The regulation is a guarantee of the quality of services and of road safety during the movement of passengers and you are now abolishing it. So ask the workers to see what they say. Minister, I am very surprised at this bill, because the collector has been abolished at the long-distance CCT and at the CCT, in the passenger's seat, where he was sitting as a collector, another post. Is this serious now any passenger sitting next to the driver setting up safety issues for the route? And, furthermore, what about the subsidised routes, are you abandoning them? The price of the ticket? I conclude by saying, people need cheaper fares. The vulnerable social groups: AME, a third age, students and others, especially with your bill, are burdened with a difficult burden. Thank you very much, but we will not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u333	Call the Step...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u334	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute on staff, which was mentioned in my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u335	He mentioned your name. But there is no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u336	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u337	Take a minute to explain to us what it is for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u338	There is, Mr President, because he may have distorted his views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u339	I judge it if it exists, Mr. Bukowo. Okay. You know, say it once, everyone hears it, because they're getting up everywhere. Personal matters are not the name reference. It's good not to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u340	He was invoked...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u341	In any case, you have a minute and with the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, who is from Corfu, and he, may have a different view of this investment. I, what I have said - and he has referred to my statements - is that this government considers investment to be a key pillar of its policy. So in Corfu, we have a flagrant, large investment that has been trying to implement for eight years. It was signed by the earlier government, updated by the SYRIZA government, and now it is time to implement it. From there on, bureaucratic strangles that have no meaning to investment, but are purely bureaucratic issues, such as an elevation study, of course, cannot stand in the way of an investment. I, therefore, claimed that some people, obviously, from northern Corfu and the municipal council, do not want the investment. But, whether or not the investment is done - the matter is over - it has been decided by previous governments. Now, it's just an administrative act. That is why we have also brought this amendment. I never spoke inappropriately or said anything, anyway, which is beyond that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u343	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Auslonite, don't open the matter. The answer was not at all to you. Make it clear what he said, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u346	I'd like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, give the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u348	Did you hear something that's prejudicial? He defended his opinion. As well as Mr. Aylonite's. And here's the end of it. Mrs. Head has the floor. At least, Mr. Auslonite, I left you nine and a half minutes to develop your argument, we don't... After Mrs. Kephala Maria - Alexandra of New Democracy, the floor will be taken by the Deputy Minister of State Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis. I am talking about the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u349	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, within the four parts of the bill we are debating today, the Government's deep faith that supporting entrepreneurship, reducing bureaucracy and simplifying procedures are prerequisites for development, a development that our country so much needs. And it became clear in the debate on the articles of the draft law on committees that this faith is now being transformed into action. I will not extend to a detailed setting of individual issues as they have been analysed and developed. I am only standing by the provisions of Part One concerning the re-regulation of the framework for the establishment, operation and operation of the waters in the country. We are relaunching, updating and giving the impetus required by the state to what the Government of New Democracy has again introduced in 2013. And I would like to explain that we are reintroducing the possibility of establishing private bodies for water. We are establishing the possibility of approving a single permit for establishment and operation and extending the authorisation to tourist ports and complex tourist accommodation. Today, we are finding a solution to the question of linking, operating and operating the waterways. We illustrate the conditions and conditions for the movement of waterplanes in water fields outside the licensed waters. We are thus facilitating the visitability of areas, but above all we are ensuring valuable assistance in urgent cases. The development of a water network can be described as a project of national importance, considering the morphology of our country's territory, a project that can evolve into another growth lever for Greece. The transport map in our country, as well as in my area of Ioannina, is basically being re-established. There, I mention briefly, Lake Pambotida can join Ioannina and the wider area online with destinations inside, as well as abroad. There is a new perspective of growth, on the one hand, tourism and, on the other, as a result of the first - economic - with new jobs. These will arise as a business ecosystem around waterplanes is created, with fuel refuelling stops, maintenance bases, but also mechanical waterplane management, an ecosystem that, if anything, will have positive effects on the local society, economy and impact on society as a whole. The infrastructure in the transport and traffic sector of the Ioannina Prefecture is to be added to the motorways and to the airport, the possibility of operating the water supply in Lake Pambotida. The issue of water service in the lake has been over us for several years, because we are losing an important opportunity to connect the continent through flights of water planes to Ionian islands and other neighbouring areas with significant economic, tourist and business benefits. Ioannina will be one of the stations on the water network that will be set up in the next few months in the country. It opens up another chapter on transport and water routes to offer air connections from the capital of Epirus to both the Ionian islands, such as Corfu and neighbouring countries such as Albania. Of course, in addition to the tourist utility, this arrangement serves and meets exceptional needs if such needs arise, such as the aerospace of patients, even firefighting issues. We are right, ladies and gentlemen, to review the existing legal framework because it allowed only one body, the Greek State, to proceed with the authorisation to set up the waters. They are excluded from a licence for the establishment of a water-strength marina granted to individuals. We are therefore giving the possibility of establishing a licence for individuals and not just public bodies. We are simplifying the licensing framework with fewer supporting documents, eliminating bureaucratic procedures, putting an end to the suffering of businessman and citizen in general. This is how we achieve the more immediate and effective implementation of the law, in particular, on the issues of building and equipment specifications. We give the opportunity to ports of smaller islands if the management body, i.e. the municipality or the port fund, cannot manage them. However, it is forbidden to operate waterways in places with safety issues for ships and bathers, close to electrical facilities and in archaeological sites. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no need for an inspection to grant a licence for the establishment of a water service, so that the issue of such a licence can go much further. On the agency, we allow the investor concerned by obtaining the licence to take the measures provided for in the law to build all the required infrastructure and facilities for the water supply. We are thus speeding up the entire licensing procedure for those who wish to carry out both the establishment permit and the operating licence at the same time and providing flexibility to public bodies, who are unable to finance the water infrastructure, to operate the water service by means of a single competitive procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the creation and operation of a water network is a programme adapted to the characteristics of our country. Greece has a line of sixteen thousand kilometres, more than two hundred twenty inhabited islands and a large number of lakes in the mainland. Waterplanes can boost the islands, create new jobs and make it easier to connect the mainland with difficult transport destinations. At the moment, we are removing all the restrictions that existed before. We are setting a entrepreneurship-friendly framework. The existence of the licensed waterways, such as this lake of Pambotidas, give the mark of the realignment. This bill is an important aid to the business tourism sector and the operation of water routes is a key issue. This function will be complementary and not competitive with other transport infrastructures, because we want to strengthen both the local and the national economy. We are enriching the tourist product of Greece, attracting the investment interest and bringing draft laws, the result of which is felt to the citizens from the next day. When today's needs and the prospects of tomorrow meet the coordinated efforts, development logic and political will, the result is far beyond good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u350	I call on the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Giannis Kefalonianis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, by thanking the present ministers, Mr Karamanlis and Mr Georgiadis, because they were the ones who believed in the project in the first place and at the meeting of the Interministerial Committee in August, they gave the guidelines so that within a very short period of time - within three months - we can present the water bill, go out into public consultation and now to vote on it in plenary. The draft law, which I now have the honour of presenting to you, together with my colleagues, attempts to provide a definitive solution to an issue relating to the establishment, operation and exploitation of the waters, which the Greek society has been looking for for for some fifteen years now, without actually having any substantial effect. As you well know, the existence of water routes is the main prerequisite for flying waterplanes, an ambitious objective that the government has set for the coming months. In this way we will be able to offer new opportunities to the economy, to tourism, to the island transport, and to the transport of the mainland with the island regions. I have listened very carefully to many colleagues who have wondered why we should bring in a new law, including my fellow citizen, Mr Mamulakis. The reason, ladies and gentlemen, that we are bringing in a new law is precisely that the previous law passed by the SYRIZA Government with the Independent Greeks, namely Law 4568/2018, did not in fact make it easier to establish and operate the waters. This has happened for a number of reasons. First of all, as I said in committee, a typical reason is that the current law presupposed the existence of some ten ministerial and joint ministerial decisions. For about a year and a half the previous government has been unable to issue one. So, in fact you know very well that a law that is passed and in fact does not go beyond secondary law, in regulatory acts, is in fact an inactive law. So a key reason why we did not see hydroplanes flying with the previous government is, in fact, why the law that was passed became inactive. A second and equally important reason why we were judging the revision of the current legal framework is because it actually allowed only one body to go ahead with the establishment of the waters and that was the Greek State. To say this quite simply, think that, for example, PPA and OLF today, in fact, could not establish water routes. In addition, private marinas or even marinas that have been granted to private individuals by the State could not be licensed. Also large port organisations could not be authorised if they were to be granted a concession to private individuals before they took the authorisation to set up a water service. The current legislative framework also jeopardised even the three licensed waters of our country, namely Paxos, Corfu and Patras, because it actually provided for the withdrawal of these licences and their adaptation to the law of 2018. Therefore, even these three waterways which have already received their licence to set up were, in fact, jeopardised, precisely because of this provision of the previous law passed by the SYRIZA Government. These, ladies and gentlemen, are only some of the reasons why we are now going to revise the existing institutional framework. There are, of course, some others who are literally hidden in the provisions of this law and it is very difficult to understand them, even if they are very familiar with this context. What we have done, for example, has been a mental work, in fact a simulation of the administrative procedure that has been required in order to understand this complexity. There, of course, we have seen that, in fact, someone who wanted to proceed with the authorisation to establish a water service with the existing institutional framework had to go through forty-two administrative acts that this meant - to say it in practical terms - about a year, which - I will explain then - we are drastically reducing it. Ladies and gentlemen, this has resulted in the fact that with the current legal framework, namely Law 4568/2018 and for one and a half years only an application for the establishment of a watercourse has been tabled. This, and I believe, is a typical example of why the previous law needed this revision. What do we do? We are simply making a new licensing framework much more investment-friendly and much more investment-friendly to those who are interested in making progress in this process, with far less supporting documents and, above all, a 50% reduction in ministerial and joint ministerial decisions, that is to say, ten, provided for in the previous legal regime, to just five. In fact, we have already made progress with the Minister in the drafting of these ministerial decisions, so that in a very short time we will be ready to present secondary law and be able to run the process very quickly. Secondly, we are dealing with a very critical issue, that of coordination between the relevant ministries. That is the main reason why we are actually reducing the members of the committee from ten to four, namely the committee which will examine the dossiers and understand that this is, in fact, aimed at better coordination of the work of the committee and, of course, at lower costs even for the public. Also, as many colleagues have said, we are actually introducing a new definition of the license for the establishment of water, according to which there is no need to supply the equipment in advance, which, in fact, makes it very easier for all of us, so that we can also earn time and of course the potential investor is not too burdened with bureaucratic procedures. Fourthly, with the exception of the authorisation to establish or license, there is also a single concept of the authorisation to establish and operate. In this way, too, we believe that the procedures are very accelerated, that we are hitting red tape. I would also like to say that public bodies, which are in fact unable to finance the water infrastructure, are being given flexibility to operate the water in a single competitive process. At this point I would like to refer to some of the objections raised by the opposition, which are wondering how one will go to obtain the authorisation to establish or license, whether he will be the first to make the application or not. Where there is interest in more than one, there will certainly be a competitive process and you realize that this revenue will be for the municipalities concerned or the port funds. Fifthly, we are broadening the scope of the current legislative framework, as we are actually giving the possibility of creating water - apart from ports and lakes - and in tourist ports, that is, in marinas, shelters and anchorages, as well as in POs, that is to say in areas of integrated tourist development, even in complex tourist accommodations. In this way, we believe that the visitability of tourist sites will be increased and, of course, we are further strengthening our country's tourism product by attracting, in fact, high-value groups of tourists. Sixthly, we are illustrating the conditions and conditions for the movement of waterplanes in areas outside the licensed water and in this way, namely, this provision, facilitates the visit of areas with tourist interest, and even emergency services. I have also mentioned this in committee, in addition to the purely transport work carried out by seaplanes, it will be useful in cases of urgent need, such as the aerospace of patients from areas where there cannot be any other direct and timely attendance, even in the case of fire-fighting, it may be possible - possibly with a change to be made to these aeroplanes - to be used. It has been mentioned by a colleague from the Opposition - if I remember well by Mr Aylonite - the issue of environmental licensing. Mr Colleagues, in fact the way we go about this draft law, you will see that, in about 80% of cases, environmental licensing procedures will be too fast, because we have already predicted that we will follow the standard environmental studies on this type of construction. So, if one excludes complex water-saving cases, 80% to 85% of cases, it will, in fact, be too rapid to license for environmental reasons. I come to Chapter II, where goods and passenger transport are regulated, with a view to better organising companies and serving professionals in the sector. I would like to stress that with the existing legal regime due to its complexity, but also to its overlapping provisions, it has caused too many interpretative problems and is often contrary to Union legislation. So what we have tried to do is to remove all the claws, but also to facilitate the development of business activity in the public-service trucks sector and the companies involved. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'd like two minutes, Mr. President. At the same time, we attach particular importance to road transport and controls, through the application of transport legislation, and to transport, declassification and replacement of public transport trucks and public transport buses. I would like to focus in particular on Article 34, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, we are opening up the time-sharing market to professionals in the sector, and in this way we think that there can be a tool in order to make a renewal of a particularly old fleet for lorries, public transport buses. In this way, I think, we are motivating professionals to make substantial progress in this renewal. Very quickly I shall refer to Chapter III of the bill. We are here, unfortunately, to regulate what many of our fellow citizens are facing in terms of bureaucracy and delay. I think it's a special innovation. I'm referring to the temporary diploma. I will simply say that, in fact, on the next day of the tests, someone will be able to get his licence. He will therefore be able to use the means for which he has given the examinations. He won't wait four, five and six months. It is good to hear in this Chamber, in this way we are also giving a strong blow to corruption. We had often seen that such impedimental procedures were the womb of even such phenomena that were, unfortunately, presented in public administration. I do not want to extend to other provisions, because the Minister will also cover the whole of the bill. I would once again like to thank the Members of the Com mittee on Culture and Antipolitics. We have indeed had a very fruitful and productive debate in the committees. I think that this has been shown by the fact that many of the comments made by both colleagues and those who came to the hearing have been adopted. I think this shows that the government has open ears in the right remarks made by colleagues, except for the Communism and, of course, the Opposition. I would just like to mention something Mr Kegeroglu said very briefly. We are within the timeframe on the subject of the new legislation on diplomas. We said that in six plus three months we will be ready to present in plenary the new legislative framework. The committee is currently working on it at our Ministry. I would also like to reply that the provisional diploma is something quite different from the new legislative framework which will come. It does not mean that the new legislative framework for diplomas will not refer to the provisional diploma. The provisional diploma - I will stress once again - is, in fact, one way, a tool to enable one who is able to obtain the examinations immediately and in such a way that there is no suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u352	I will give the floor to the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis, to develop it under the general number of 153 and a special 11 amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u353	Not only. Generally, Mr. President. This is where we get involved in stuff. There's been a lot of noise from the dear Mrs. Perkas and others. It is good to respond so that shadows are not left in Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Minister, Mr Karamanlis and the State Secretary for Mr Kefaliannis. We started together at the Ministry of Development at the end of August, if I remember correctly, the first joint meeting to see how we could really move on to the creation of hydroplane lines in Greece. Mr Colleague, who has been good and practicing to me - no objection - we have been discussing this in Greece since I was the State Secretary for Development, Competitiveness and Shipping in 2011. Now I became Minister of Development and Investment in 2019-2020 and we are discussing the same thing. There must be something in this country at last beyond the debate. In the intervening period, he was again discussed in the Samara government and re-electioned. Then he was re-voked in a government of Tsipras. Waterplanes still don't fly. Our purpose with this bill is to fly waterplanes this time. We'll be judged for that. We want to be effective. It was a complex thing in fact. The previous law, as it had been passed by Mr. Tsipras' government, had absolutely no hope of bringing even a waterplane to Greece, as no one came, even though almost two years had passed, because very simply the forecasts that he had not allowed the waterways to be built, nor of course would any private investor be interested in getting into such a shape. This bill is designed to make the lives of investors easier to simplify licensing procedures without losing anything, such as the safety of flights and passengers that is the big issue. So we firmly believe that this draft law, which in a few hours' time will be the law of the Greek state, creates the right business environment to finally bring investments in the seaplanes that can really change the way we live in this country. As long as you think that you can, for example, fly a waterplane from here and go to the Spetses in twenty-five minutes. Think of how much tourism the Spetses have every summer and how easily we will be able to travel from Attica to Spetses. Destinations on the Ionian side, which in the past had more successful hydroplane lines, which are remote and have no other way to transfer than boats once a week and after too many hours. Or other Aegean islands that are remote and have a very diluted maritime transport. Waterplanes don't compete with the coastline. That's a legend. They simply increase passenger traffic and make the lives of tourists and people of the islands easier to access the metropolitan territory. So it's a very nice plan. Everyone claims that in reality Greece and its geomorphology are ideal for the development of a dense waterplane network. As a government, we provide the right environment, just as there is in other states where such investments are operating. We have good reason to believe that we will have the first pilot flights from this year and I have much more of a dense network in time. So the bill comes to respond to a real need to achieve a real goal and see something really changes in our lives. However, the bill also has two provisions which have been criticised for me personally, and for which I should certainly like to reply mainly so as not to make any impressions. I'm going to the first one where it's the most important one, and it's about the Greek one. I am not talking about both of them, about the public spaces and about the issue of the transfer of Special Forces. I think there was no disagreement. Don't waste time on what we don't disagree. But let's go to the core. Where the problem is. I would particularly like to address Mrs Perkas who knows the subject because she has dealt with it, but also with other colleagues. What is the criticism that has been made by both Vice-Presidents here and by a portion of the opposition press? That we're giving the investor the works. I didn't say you, Mrs. Perka. You, I said, you know the play. I said about the others. I want to read just what is written in Article 67(3). ‘After the submission of the documents set out below, it shall be effected by and at the expense of the buyer or his guarantor...’, etc. And in the explanatory statement 'is handled by and at the expense of the buyer or his guarantor'. I do not put it in the Minutes because you have the bill and it would be ridiculous to submit what you have in front of you in the bill. But any of the colleagues - and there have been enough - or those of the journalists still write that we are giving Latsis a gift or have not read the law or are a little weak in reading or are a regular liar. Because the provision of the law is explicit. At the expense of the buyer. In other words, Latsis, i.e. LAMDA, that is, not the public. At some point populism must end in this Chamber. Because we're not going to make any sense. Now there's a test question. Why does he need such an article? I'll come to my friend. Come now that you don't know why. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u354	Why would they be demolished before the transfer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u355	I'll answer right away. To earn time, it's the answer. Listen, why do we have to buy time? Because in the contract that the Tsipras government ratified by law there is an article in a chamber that says that no transfer can be made until all court proceedings are closed on the main legislative interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u356	It's the original contract yours we couldn't change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u357	And ours and yours. We don't disagree on that, we agree. Is this an article? There is. Very good. Aren't you telling me, did Mrs Vlazaki's secretary not go to appeal to the Council of State, on the last day of the deadline, against the CSM? For those who do not know in the Chamber, Mrs Vlazaki was the Secretary General of the Ministry of Culture in SYRIZA. It was supposed to be one of the organs of the Tsipra Government, who were working to make the work! Mrs Vlazaki, who has made the appeal, was within the Central Archaeological Council and is supposed to coordinate the project and the lady has gone and made an appeal to the Council of State to block the project! You have heard before, that until such time as these judicial proceedings have expired, the transfer cannot take place. I mean, SYRIZA puts one of his own to file an appeal on the last day, can't be transferred, and then I have Mr. Katrin telling me why the bulldozers don't get in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u358	I'll say it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u359	Understood? So the transfer will take place when the court proceedings are closed. What court proceedings? The ones you caused. One is Mrs Vlazaki, the other is Mr Arsenis and one, two, the archaeologists' association of the Ministry of Culture, in which the workers' association of the Ministry of Culture for those you do not know, SYRIZA is considered a right-wing derogation. There's 70% of Andarsya, they don't talk to the symbians because they think they're right. So the Left and the Left - even of SYRIZA - is coming, the Left that was supposed to be working to make the investment - is making an appeal to Greek justice to block the investment so that it can then say 'why do the bulldozers not enter', and then when we bring a law to speed up the precursor work, they ask us 'why are you bringing a law to speed up the precursors' work?' Because there are you, it's the answer! Because you sabotage the work you and we unblock it, it's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u360	Where was he blocked? What point?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u361	Speaking of the bulldozers and my statements, I would like to tell you that I posted Mr. Spirtzi's statement online, that the bulldozers would enter Greek in 2017. You fell from power in 2019 and bulldozers were not in yet. Because you keep telling me about the bulldozers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, I shall take the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u363	What does this arrangement say? This arrangement unlocks the project to get the bulldozers in. How does he unlock it? Whether the transfer took place or did not take place, what are the first work to be done? Where does this project start? Doesn't it start from demolition of existing buildings? Can any work be done and dig under the buildings and buildings overcrowd? Oh, no. So what do we do? Instead of waiting for the transfer, the investor takes a risk on him. Because, by paying the cost of demolition, which is enough millions, the investor risks that if an appeal to the Council of State is lost and the transfer is blocked, he will have spent a lot of millions to demolition without being able to take the property. With this regulation, the public is gaining accelerating the project, which is what journalists, foreign correspondents, investors, who want to see bulldozers on the ground every day, and rightly so. He wins the public and the play starts without risking anything public, because the man who puts his money at risk is the investor. That is the amendment, the terrible one, which you have constantly complained about and you want to vote against. Of course she's wholehearted. It will allow within a few weeks, as soon as the accreditation acts come out and the decision of the administrative appeal and the Board of Suspensions of the State Council on the objections of the "HARD ROCK", if the court of course decides - and it will always be respected - that in the way it decides, I do not prejudge, I said, although and as it decides, we have confidence...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u364	I wish he'd let it go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u365	We're not Papagolopoulos. We have confidence in the two committees - the one committee of competition, whose members we and the supervising committee, appointed by the SYRIZA Government, unanimously, have come up with a conclusion on the casino. Now, if we've fallen in the case of ND-SYRIZA and Georgiadis-Janakopoulou to pass the decision, I don't see that much. So I trust people of both committees do their job well. The rest will judge them Greek justice, and we will take the acts of credentials, Greek justice will make its decision and then start the works. And we have the bulldozers, so that my friend, Mr Katrinis, who rightly points out my initial statement of the programming declarations, which I said 'I set a target by the end of the year', and then I said 'at the beginning of 2020'. But it's okay, you're fine and you report the first one. That's your right. You'll be invited on the first day of the works. I don't know if you vote for the amendment. I hope you will vote for it, since you really want to see bulldozers. Because if you ask me at the same time why the bulldozers don't come in and you vote against the amendment, it goes on to say that you are hypocrites. So we got the Greek, no gifts to Latsi. LAMD takes the risk, speed up projects, is right to go ahead. Know that a project of this velocity is an emblematic project, sends a signal to the markets and Greece needs a signal that it can actually achieve difficult and complicated works. I shall now go to the second amendment that caused the colleague's menstruation from Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u366	Article, it was the first amendment, the second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u367	Right, the first article, I read it, Article 67. And now we go to the amendment. And why amendment? I'll answer that, too. Because it came up on the press, as we say. So, what's happened? SYRIZA, one of the decisions he made was the division of the Municipality of Corfu in two municipalities. In other words, it became the Municipality of Corfu and the Municipality of Northern Corfu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u368	Three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u369	Yeah, three. We're interested in this case for the north. I'm not going to go into this right now, it's another ministry, the other minister will see it. Let's go to the major now. We started unlocking the investment in Kassiopi. I'll do a parentheses here. Is this an investment by Georgiadis, which is a dealer of 'CAPITAL', as you said? If possible. This investment has been supported by the Samara - Venizelos government, or NW - PASOK. There was no KINAL back then, you were called ELIA, I don't remember exactly, but we were together. That's how Kassiopi started, at the time of our own sale of the TIAD 25 million this area to this company. After he sold it, the government fell, and the next government came, Mr. Tsipras. Has Mr. Tsipras' government stopped the investment? No, of course not. Not only did it not stop it, but at the Government of Tsipras, the environmental study was approved. In other words, the core of this environmental investment, and what makes the fuss about whether or not the environment is destroyed, was judged not by Georgiadis, but by Alexis Tsipras and it was considered that it does not only affect, but protects the environment. Indeed, after they supported the investment as government, they had - if you remember the oldest colleagues here - Panos Kammenos, their co-pilot, who said almost every speech about Kassiopi and how much it will change Greece. I mean, they've been supporting it governmentally. In any case, due to the usual Greek bureaucracy, this has been delayed, as is all delayed in Greece. Now our government is coming. I take over again with Mr. Papathanassis, the Deputy Minister of State to unlock the investment. We're unblocking everything. He had twenty-eight loose ends, we solved them all. And who's been staying lately? The approval of the study of the elevation of the roads established within the project by the municipal council of the Municipality of North Corfu. I'm calling the mayor to my office in October. I say, "Mr. Mayor, there's this last loose end. Do you want us to assign it to the central municipality, which has a ready technical service to do it quickly, do not delay it?" 'No', he tells me, 'I make a good technical service which I have complete confidence in them, we will do so, no problem, Minister.' I had no reason to trust a mayor. Mayor to Minister said so. The weeks have passed, the study has gone nowhere. I call him again in December, with the investors present. "Mr. Mayor, it's been two months, the law says sixty days. What about the study?’ He delivers us the plan of study, papers, to me and to the investors, and he tells us: "This is a fantastic study, the Agency has done an amazing job and now as you can see it, I have given it to the City's Quality of Life, it takes two - three days to get through there and next week it passes through the municipal council." We ask him: "When, Mr Mayor?" In reply: 'February end, at the very beginning of January'. We say: 'Good, mayor, trust you'. The weeks passed, but he didn't go to the Committee on Quality of Life. We knew now that the mayor was playing a double game. What happened next? The Life Quality Committee, fearing the company's out-of-court investigation that they would be asked for civil damages because they had violated the law, brought the study to the City's Quality of Life Commission and unanimously approved the study as correct and there is no problem. They shall establish the unanimous decision of the municipality committee to be approved by the municipal council. He postpones one, two, three times the municipal council, the mayor goes the other night and asks for a postponement, since he has brought in all the world to yell for the investment. Municipal councillors vote by a majority not to postpone the postponement. He understands he'll lose the vote and what does he do? He stands up and blames the mayor for his service, this service he was telling us about in October how good it is, this service he had prepared the elevation study and had passed it unanimously by the City's Quality of Life. When he realized that this study would be accepted by the majority of his municipal council, and indeed by the advisers of his own municipality, he is risen and accused of doing the wrong study and withdrawing the study. As he withdrew the study, there could no longer be a vote on the study, which was no longer there. And so there was a postponement, i.e. postponed until the second presence. In other words, to say it simply, Mr. Mayor of North Corfu, despite the decisions of three different governments, courts, ministries, environmental studies, the Council of State and any others alone, and despite the majority of his municipal council - the next day five of his advisers were independent - he decided himself to say that the investment would not take place. And now I ask you calmly and nicely: we all say we want investment. That's what we're all supposed to say. It's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u370	Why did you do this for all the municipalities and not just for Cassiope?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u371	In a minute, I'm done. So, I say, gentlemen, is it possible to expect an investor to come to Greece and say what "yes" is "yes" if the ministers say to me, "yes" to what the courts say, "yes" to me, and if the public officials say to me, will a mayor come, and even without a majority, and stop the work of the millions? Are we going to bring an investor in Greece? Does Mr. Katrinis say why are we doing this for everyone? Because first of all, it can't be a photographic device. I guess you know that. If we bring order only for this investment and North Corfu will be photographic and it will obviously go to court. Besides...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u372	Have you found it elsewhere, that's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u373	Right now I'll come to that. After all, this has given us the need for real and general reform. What reform? He says: "Possible structural weakness with local responsibilities that cannot be met..." Why am I writing this? Because the mayor himself accused his technical service of not being able to conduct a proper study. The mayor himself told us that his technical service is unable to do the study. After the mayor, Mr. Comrade, told us that his technical service could not do the study seven months while he had sixty days, not to listen to the call from the mayor? Mr President, I shall now close with the major one, so that the fun can be over. The argument has been heard by Mr SYRIZA's colleague that it is undemocratic what we are doing and that by circumventing the municipal council in this way we are doing an anti-democratic act and a great deal. Aren't you telling me, Mr. colleague from Corfu, that we thought about this great anti-democratic act for the first time? I am presenting for the Minutes, dated 28 January 2017, the congratulations of Mr. Melissanides to the government of Mr. Tsipras, when the then Mayor of New Philadelphia refused to approve the elevation study of the AEK's field, in the same way as the Mayor of northern Corfu did for Kassiopi. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What did Mr. Tsipras do then? Listen, Mr. Colleague, how undemocratic Alexis Tsipras is. He voted that if the municipal council within sixty days does not give an altitude study, then the district manager concerned is assigned to take the elevation study out and bypass the municipal council. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What Mr. Tsipras did about sports projects, we're generalizing it for everything. So if it's for the ball, it's not undemocratic, and if it's for the projects it's undemocratic? Is that what you're telling us? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, Mr. Colleague, take the anti-democracy back or become independent of the SYRIZA. Both can't do it. Only your scales, they don't exist here. To be informed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I send a clear message as Minister of Development and Investment of this country to investors now: This government, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in other words, said to the Greek people: "I want you to choose me to transform the country into the most entrepreneurially friendly country and to have people, ministers and MPs who, when some will cause you problems as many times as have happened in Greece, will solve these problems". The Greek people, the election demand of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, embraced it, elected him as Prime Minister with a large majority and with self-reliance in the House to do exactly what they promised. What we are doing today, both with the article and the amendment, is to implement our election commitments and send a message to all the unscrupulous investors that the country has changed. The government will not allow any local players to plunder. I don't know if he has any more reasons, because there might be other interests here. I'm not opening it any further. Mr. Gikas knows what I'm talking about. The Cassiope investment and the region have conflicting interests. But let us leave this in order not to open another debate with the mayor of North Corfu. So I say that our message to investors is one and clear: we will not allow, as long as this government is in power and as long as the Greek people support it, to stop an investment that the Greek state has approved and which the Greek state has guaranteed, only because a man wants to play personally. This is not the case for northern Corfu, it applies to the whole territory, and of course the article is not mentioned in North Corfu, but refers to the entire territory. And I declare it now: In every subsequent investment we need to legislate to unlock the works and change the image of the country that had made the reputation of being "the country that you go in trouble" and build a country where everyone will know that if you go you will respect both your money and your time so that you can make a reality your vision, this country is Greece and this government is the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. I invite you to support these initiatives and build Greece that we dream of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u374	Mr President, I would like to speak for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u375	You have the floor for three minutes, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Georgiadis is obviously under pressure from his statements in relation to the auctions and the doro that he has created, but also from the anger of Greek society towards his face, because with his usual propaganda, he came out a few days ago and told us that the protection from the auctions of first home is damaging to the Greek economy, as he considers that all the results and consequences of the crisis have now passed. To tell him it's not like that. There are too many people who, because of the huge debt that his prolongation created for the country - which, of course, was then, in 2009, boiled down, because it was not yet his prolongation, but then began to love her because it was because of his prolongation - which left a debt of 300 billion euros, which, you know, has borne the Greek citizens very much. Exactly, therefore, because Mr. Georgiadis is unable to recognize this... [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] ...and sees the protection from the auctions of first home as a loss to the Greek economy, he came here to give a performance and strengthen his semiarchical profile within the New Democracy and tell us about Greece that he dreams of. In his usual precursor and ruthlessness, however, Mr. Georgiadis fell into the trap. And what's the trap? He missed the real guiding idea behind the Greek amendment. And what is this guiding idea? Just because it has been disproved too many times over when these rheumatists will get into Greek, he told us just before the elections: "In seven days, because I am Georgiadis, the best of all, I will have thrown them into the bulldozers and they will have all finished." The seven days passed, the seven days took place in September, September became the end of the 19th, the end of the 19th was the end of the 1920s. Obviously, he sees that real politics and the exercise of command is not a television broadcast where anyone can say what he wants to say, as he wants to do in the way he wants. So today Mr Georgiadis comes and tells us about his guiding idea behind this amendment. To enter five bulldozers, throw two arbitrary, take three photos and show the Greek public and the investors that the works for the Greek were started.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u377	It looks like a Thessaloniki subway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u378	What can anyone say about these things, which remind me of? This is not the first time New Democracy has done it. Do you know what they remind? Go to the labour centre of Corinth, Mr. Georgiadis and ask the workers where they had been called in 2012 or 2013 for the road Corinth - Patras. He had taken Mr. Samaras, your favorite, the bulldozers, he put them there, brought the workers, took pictures, and then after Mr. Samaras left, and the bulldozers left, the workers also left. These are not serious things, Mr. Georgiadis, and take the ham. You're Minister now, and it's good to act as Minister. Well, now for the rest in relation to Cassiopi, Mr President. Mr President, I would like your tolerance. Mr. Georgiadis spoke eighteen minutes while he had ten, please give me another minute and I'll finish. It's obvious that because you can't, Mr. Georgiadis, share two donkeys straw...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u379	Mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u380	...because you don't have the ability to resolve the slightest tension with local societies, with the different opinions in society on the things that, in any case, a government has to deal with - it also seemed in football how successful you are with regard to mediation, the conflicts, your good news to congratulate you on this - you came here as if you were in a cafeteria to tell us about your talks with the mayor, he told me, he told you, he said. And not only that, but once again you discovered that SYRIZA supposedly did the same thing with you. But you have read a provision, Mr Georgiadis, which says: 'Sixty days will be given to the mayor in the municipality'. Do you have a deadline for your amendment? You don't have any deadlines. Read it. You're transferring responsibility directly, first. And secondly, the self-sufficiency of self-government, Mr Georgiadis, is not overwhelmed by this amendment, because responsibility is not passed on from Otta to the central government, as you are doing here now. Therefore, you can tell your friends journalists, but when you come to talk to people who and letters know and legally know good is being more careful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u382	Mr Georgiadis, Minister for Development and Investment, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u383	I shall reply exactly in the order that the questions have been raised to me. First of all, as far as the first home auctions are concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are living in Greece is unprecedented. The Government of Tsipras and Mr. Tsipras, who spoke personally, have voted in two laws, in the medium term that is the agreement with Europe for the finances of the Greek state, but also in the last law of the assessment in the summer of 1918, that the protection of first residence and the Katselis Law and the provisions expire on 31 December 2019. The gentleman now shed crocodile tears for first home auctions, the same one you saw before speaking, has voted that the auctions should have started two months ago and supposedly concerned about auctions. I'm just saying that to understand which country we live in and how SYRIZA reverses what he said about those who thought he was serious. Now we're going to the Greek. You know if we wanted to make fun of public opinion, as you almost implied, we again had an applied solution from your Government. We could make some nice bulldozers in Greek, we could all go to the mushrooms and take photos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If we want to move into a truck as well and move around - and be the photos from inside to pretend to be moving and presenting the so-called bulldozers in the Greek. So what you did on the subway of Thessaloniki. On the contrary, what do we say? You said that I admitted that five, ten buildings would be broken. Is that what we said? Didn't you read the amendment? It's nine hundred seventeen buildings. Nine hundred seventeen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u384	The before the transfer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u385	Accreditation will be issued for now, for the time before, Mrs. Perka. You'll be invited to the opening before the transfer for nine hundred seventeen. It'll all be broken down! It's a million-euro project. The investor will pay. The risk of justice is taken by the investor and what is the Greek people gaining? He wins that the works start, because the Greek people don't care whether or not the transfer took place, how much money goes to the GOI, that is to the lenders. He's interested in sending the signal that the project started. And, of course, since the project starts, Mr. Janakopoulos, and the investor is already spending millions to make these works and not mustamads, he has one more reason to really start the project. So, with this amendment, we do not mock the Greek people instead, we ensure that the projects begin. And we ensure that despite your struggling efforts and party officers for appeals in court to block it. You want to block it, we want to unblock it and we will unblock it with the vote of the New Democracy MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u386	He's unlocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u387	All right, Mrs. Perka. I've recognized you've done a job. First I recognized it, and I'll say it, and when the project starts. I'll say it. I have told you that in the Greek instead of fighting, as Mr Janakopoulos wants, this is an intergovernmental work of three successive governments. The vision and idea was arrested by Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, the final contract was signed by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the works started by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And instead of fighting to say that two different parties and three different governments worked to make this work. Instead of doing this you want us to fight. Do it. But people don't remember. But let's go to Cassiopi. First of all, the sixty-day deadline already exists in the law and the mayor has broken it. The sixty days under the law have passed, it does not have to be repeated here, because the sixty-day deadline exists in the basic law. But I have to tell you that your argument was really humiliating and shocked. The reason you voted against, he says, is that you bypassed the city council...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u388	We didn't override it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u389	...surpassing the district, while we bypass the municipal council by passing the district to the Ministry. That's a big difference! My colleague is right to say that what we are doing is undemocratic, as if the government were not elected, and it has not gone through elections such as the district and municipal councils. Well, I think it made it very clear why we're talking. You gave it to us this time too. I congratulate you on the amendment you made in '17 and bypassed the New Philadelphia City Council and the elevation study. You made her half as much as anything. It should have been legislated since then that this is on all investments. Today, then, we are once again completing one half of your law and doing it all in the way it sends it and a message to the international investors, as I said before, that no longer will be allowed to destroy the investments. And a message to the Corfiots, ladies and gentlemen, who, in the majority of their support of investment, proved this the next day in Corfu and with the resignations of the municipal councillors of Mr Machimaris and with the public statements on the channels of many local authorities, where they personally charge the mayor this delay. I, too, charge him public political games, and I hope only political ones. But take note of this. This investment is mainly for the sake of Corfu. Corporals will find a job in these works. Corporals will increase their income from increasing the property values throughout the region. And because I keep hearing about the destruction of the environment, I am closing with that, Mr President, just to hear it from the Greek people. Do you know how much coverage on the area we are talking about, which is causing the environment to be destroyed? We're talking about 7% of the land. Of the four hundred and twenty acres, we are talking about the thirty-five acres, with the full guarantee of the forestry section, and even with the provision of the environmental study adopted on Tsipras to protect the forest in the region of Kassiopi. So, then, those who supposedly propose the destruction of the environment lie do so for other reasons. I repeat that the provision is no longer made for northern Corfu, it is done for all of Greece. Just north Corfu and Mr. Machimaris' example were a good example for all of us, to know what to avoid in the future and what risks potential investors might find from anyone who wants to play personally political games. And because my colleague said that I was speaking gossip, the only reason I spoke to all the dialogues with the mayor - who were all public, in the presence of the ministry, was not personal - is only one. I would forgive him, Mr. Comrade of SYRIZA, if he had come to the Ministry from the beginning and said "I am against the investment and I will do everything I can to stop it". If he had, I'd have a decent political opponent. I'd treat him with dignity. But this man - and I do not believe that the Corfiots are such people - was mocking Ministers, services, investors, MPs, vowing even to St. Athanasios that the elevation study will pass, so that Saint Athanasios could go to the Greek bells of Mr. Machimari. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u390	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and three teachers attending from the 1st General High School of Igoumenitsa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I now call on the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta, to take the step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. You want to sanctify in this room and you can't! What did we learn today, ladies and gentlemen, Greeks and Greeks? Of course, Mr Georgiadis has unfortunately left, but I am sure he will hear what I will say and I am here at his disposal. What did we hear today? We have actually heard that the New Democracy and SYRIZA - and they have shown this to be another intense communication show in this Chamber - is exactly the same thing. The same anti-democratic practices used by some in the past, and now they are being used by others to circumvent whatever obstacles they find before them. And they do the wrong thing, which they admit is wrong, not because it's right, but why you did it too. That's what Mr. Georgiadis said, speaking to Mr. Janakopoulos. What did he say to him? "Didn't you do it?" he says? So you do it, too. He didn't deny they were going to auction. He did not say no, that the New Democracy will safeguard the first residence of Greek and Greek. He said, "Don't talk about auctions, because you voted for the law!" So the auctions, the auctions and the auctions. Because we also remember on Wednesdays the policemen under the offices where the auctions were being auctioned and the same now. It comes tsunami auctions in a short time with the law 'HERAKLI'. What else did we hear from Mr. Georgiadis? He told us that the New Democracy - and with emphasis and steepness - almost convinced us too - is doing what he said in the election. At that time, I sat a little bit and I thought. I won't stay in the bulldozers, whether they're in or not they're going in, because now it's almost funny. But really what New Democracy said was doing? I'll take two rough cases that come to my mind now. New Democracy literally kept what he said about the Macedonian. As I remember now, and here I think all Greeks should take the hat out in the New Democracy, as they kept and literally what they said they would do to deal with illegal immigration. So instead of telling us that, for the two very important issues and problems that Greece is facing at the moment, the New Democracy has politically deceived the Greeks and Greeks, it comes today and tells us that the New Democracy follows literally what it had announced in the election. I think hypocrisy is too much here. He also said with a veil - because I repeat what you want to sanctify here, you can't - that works must be done in this country at one time. We agree, Minister. We're with us, Mr. Kefaliannis. To do the works. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will also need the time of my dentistry. Today in the Chamber we've made a nice trip. We went to Corfu, we went to Kastoria. I understand the need for colleagues, who each for their part, for their constituency, to say some things. Well, I will take you to another constituency, which is the second largest, is Thessaloniki. Because today we heard about mustards - which Mr Georgiadis is right about - we heard things. But today we are talking about an important task which we, Minister, are voting in favour of. You know we're in favor. I wish there were waterways, I wish our islands could grow longer, more tourism, but I feel that we are in a watering house and we fight if we make the Jacuzzi! This is a bit like that, because I repeat that we are also addressing citizens of a city, the second largest city in Greece, who are forced to move with OSH's soaps, OSH's dangerous soaps. And you know, Thessalonians aren't sodomachers. We are nothing like these, which is why we like to be vigilant and become sardines in these antiquated, damaged and dangerous vehicles. But we don't have a choice. Unfortunately, this situation is about laughing and crying and not just about it, national issues, illegal immigration, and the auctions are also coming in health. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Dear Minister, you have also been Minister for Health. I won't judge your work there, but where do you get it and where do you leave it? We go to key areas facing problems in Greece, health, economics, illegal immigration, important issues. She's going to the hospital, Minister, and they're making an appointment for 2022. And don't tell me this is a mistake or it was wrong. Gastroenterology, February 3, 2022. In other words, in Greece, in order to learn from what he is suffering, he must die and see in the autopsy that he was in trouble! In 2022, the lady made an appointment to run tests. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm really ashamed of what's going on. And you know what? Greeks pay through their insurance contributions to have a good health and care. We also have doctors here. Whether they pay or don't go or we have to pay them twice, because the state actually forces us to go to private hospitals and a double-finding payment for our care. Let's go to the second topic to the NGOs. After seven months New Democracy was awakened by its political lethargy, in which it is found and we read the Prime Minister's statements at the interview he gave. "Finally in the questionable NGOs," said Mr Mitsotakis. Now did you wake up, Prime Minister? Seven months he dryed our throats in here. The Prime Minister also said that our maritime borders are now guarded. I just want to let you know that only in the past two days in Lesvos spent three hundred seventy-six, in the Dodecanese a hundred forty-four and in Samos eighty-one. These are the borders that are guarded, according to the Prime Minister's words. With non-governmental organisations, the biggest problem is that you have now understood and understood yourself that you cannot hide the problem. Even yours, systemic media can't cover it. Admit it. And now we're telling you that as soon as you admit it, it'll be better for all of us. We are now talking about a new form of mafia with what is happening with non-governmental organisations. It's a fact. It's the mafia of non-governmental organizations. She's spreading her tentacles everywhere. They control everything. They're orchestrating all the wells of illegal immigrants. They check what they say in their interviews, how they stand, everything. They're in charge. Listen to this, which is new fruit and now comes to our everyday lives. Listen, Minister: According to today's revelation by the borrowers' president, the non-governmental organizations are denounced and brokers are waiting for and will have the first reason when the Greeks' houses come into the hammer. This storm, the tsunami that is now coming with HERAKLE, which will become the madman since May, the first to wait like the crows on top are the non-governmental organizations. These are twenty-six thousand first homes that will be auctioned and lost by Greek citizens. Do you realize that? They have the money. They go and give and take homes. The Greek people have reached their limits. And I return to the red loans. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. And thank you. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, in this country - and I do not have to say this today to the Greek Parliament - if you are a thief, if you are a tax-payer, if you are a big debtor, no bank would mind. No one bothers you. Let's owe you millions. Nothing and nobody bothers you. If you are a poor guy and you owe 5,000 euros, 6,000 euros, 10,000 euros, or you get 1500 euros or 1800 euros, and you can't afford to pay your loan, so the bank with the state comes and they take your home. You're an honest party. You owe a housekeeper. But here you're fucked. You pay taxes in England and you get Bulgaria's salary. Unfortunately, this is the situation in Greece. As far as we are concerned, we are creating an even greater problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, too. We continue with the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor from the Change Movement for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u394	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u395	I didn't really mean to talk about Mr. Georgiadis. Of course, Mr Georgiadis invaded the Chamber as a bull in a glass shop and singled out the interest and debate in a bill, which had actually reached a consensus on many points. And that is what we have to admit. In the committee, but also in plenary, positive speeches were made. However, I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome Mr Janakopoulos's reference to the debt of 300 billion left by the government of Mr Karamanlis in 2009. Mr. Janakopoulou, it took some time on your side to admit Mr. Karamanlis' enormous and overwhelming responsibilities. I just want to remind you that in the two years 2008, 2009, we had EUR 57 billion extra debt, twin deficits and many other issues, which afterward the PASOK governments, as much as they were swamped, tried to collect with the painful measures that were then struck by all the parties. And I'm glad you say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u396	Well, together you ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u397	Since we are talking about a bill, which is about development, and because yesterday Mr Mitsotakis welcomed Mr Georgiadis, and in fact, we have learned and read that he has also given him congratulations on his performance at the Ministry of Development, saying that we have a footprint that is clearly positive, so we wonder why Mr Mitsotakis congratulates Mr Georgiadis. Does he congratulate him on his statements on the recent auctions in the first place that will come and will be intensified after 1 May? Does he congratulate him on the style and cynicism of his statements at the recent event last Friday of the Chamber? And Mr Georgiadis accuses us of isolating us - he says - his statement. Did Mr. Mitsotakis congratulate Mr. Georgiadis, why in August 2019 did he say "stick into the platform of Law 4506 to save your homes, as long as you can", a platform on which forty-two thousand natural and legal persons have entered and have arranged in two hundred and thirty-four cases, 0.62%? Did Mr. Mitsotakis congratulate Mr. Georgiadis on this large proportion and for his vision of first home protection calling on borrowers in August to enter the platform to save their homes? For the Greek, he knows what my opinion is. Because from this Step on July 22nd, he bet that by the end of the year bulldozers will be in the Greek. Then he accused us of dispersing make news. And he said the administrative procedures would be over by 2019. And today, we come to vote for another legislation, to see when these administrative procedures will finally be completed, so that the bulldozers will finally enter the Greek, something we all wish. Did he congratulate him on that? Did he congratulate him on his low-performance absorption of less than 35% recorded by the seventeen of the twenty regional and sectoral programmes, including the ‘Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Competitiveness’ programme? Did he congratulate him on the lack of planning and activation of critical programmes such as those that will support the adaptation of Greek manufacturing enterprises to modern requirements? And look at coincidence and juncture: Today, IOBE, in a study it presented, demonstrates the very small share of processing in the country's GDP. Did the Prime Minister congratulate Mr Georgiadis, why programmes entered into the EMEA 1420 from 2015 until today have not been declared, although they have been announced too many times and that there is no real picture of what amounts committed for this programme for actions and projects that have been entered into the development law, and of course, which branches are represented, what amounts are credited, what investment projects are there and what and how much disbursements have been made to beneficiaries? Is that why the Prime Minister has congratulated the Minister of Development? Or is it because in the events presented by the government and celebrated by the Minister of Development, in the chapter 'Consumer protection', it only says that six thousand seven hundred checks have been carried out to combat the blockade? In the protection of the consumer, however, Mr Georgiadis says nothing about the bank charges for which the Prime Minister himself, in this Chamber himself, falsely said that after meeting the Association of Greek Banks, we had a suspension of the debts. Why does the Minister for Development not mention this in the realities and successes of the first seven months that he has published on the Internet? Because, obviously, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has happened, nor does it interest him to remove bank charges. Because, obviously, it adopted the view that we heard yesterday from the Governor of the Bank of Greece that bank charges are the smallest in the Eurozone, they are reasonable and must continue. So the government didn't do anything. And it seems that, unfortunately, it does not intend to do anything on this matter. Of course, we have become wiser in this Chamber, because we have learned that Mr. Georgiadis is forgiven. It has other kinds of responsibilities and capabilities, of course. Mr Georgiadis admitted that he did what the previous government did, on account of what took place at the AEK stage and investment in Kassiopi. Of course, it has strengthened the climate - I repeat - in a word, which was really consensual, in a bill, which I think few people will find serious differences and will not agree that it has a strong development mark. Of course, it is a bill which has too many unconnected provisions between them, but - I think our rapporteur, Christos Gokas, has analysed them very thoroughly. Because our position and view, not over the years, is that, where we agree, we have the courage and freeness to support the general guidelines and provisions of the bill and where we disagree with different legislative proposals or amendments, in the logic of improving and strengthening the bill we are discussing. We did the same in the previous government period, so we continue to do it now. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case. I am not referring, of course, to individual issues, such as what seems to be the points of disagreement in the bill in question, but I am referring to central issues. Neither the previous government nor the current government see any willingness to reach agreement on proposals that we are putting forward and which are fair social demands, such as the proposal to restore the tenth drafting, normal, of course, as in the case of the amendment we tabled to tackle the demographic problem, and of course, to protect the first residence of borrowers and the possibility of preference for borrowers in their loan, before that ends in a fund and management company. Of course, in the first part of the bill, our rapporteur has analysed it very thoroughly, we agree on the water routes. I just want to point out that almost twenty years have passed in connection with the introduction of the commercial use of waterplanes, passenger and freight transport and, of course, it is a pity that, sometimes because of ignorance, sometimes because of intentions or conflicts of interest and sometimes simply because of the Greek bureaucracy that is stirring up the country and the economy, we have had ineffective drafts of laws such as Law No 4568/20187 and it has not been possible and substantial to exploit the waterplane. There was only one limited use, in few areas, with few routes. Of course, all the previous speakers were also mentioned, and Christos Gokas said that it was an effort that began a long time ago by the PASOK governments, just before 2004, and then all of this was strengthened and acted. It is impressive that many years ago, almost a hundred years ago, waterplanes were built in our country and it is something that needs to worry about the position we are in today. It is an instrument that experts claim to be the most environmentally friendly, which can be exploited on regular, but also exceptional flights, for cargo transport, tours, patient transport and various types of missions. The important thing is that at a much lower cost, in terms of infrastructure and use, in relation to aeroplanes and helicopters, it can really help to develop the economy and communication between the islands, the development of tourism, and particularly in areas without airports or these airports are for military use only. Of course, there is an example of this at my place of origin, in the Prefecture of Ilias, which is the possibility and perspective for the development of four waters, and the colleague, Andreas Nikolakopoulou, before, in the port of Katakolo, in the port of Kyllini, in the lake of Kaiafa, but also in the artificial lake of Pineion, Lake Karamanli as it has been renamed in recent years. It is a demand for local society, as there are too many requests from other regions, which will of course give impetus to tourism - and not only - the development of the region, with many possibilities. But, Minister, you know very well that we consider that development is a prerequisite for the completion of the construction of the Patras tower road, for which we are waiting for you in the Committee on Production and Trade to inform us of the timetable, model and implementation costs. Despite the fact that most of the bill is indeed removed from ideoleptic obsessions of the past, there are also points that give rise to intense reflection, because they will probably cause further bureaucratic obstacles. I think that the Ministry's leadership should also demonstrate that it is indeed determined and flexible to speed up developments. And while you are limiting - and I think this is something that greets all the wings of this House - the bureaucracy of the previous law, I think you are creating conditions for this bureaucracy to reappear and I really want to be disproved. He also said our rapporteur, and it is important, since we believe that it can help to develop tourism throughout the country, that the ban on the movement of waterplanes in the aquatic field, in the context of exceptional flights, should be lifted. We must unleash this opportunity to really give this impetus and that possibility. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] In relation to the other issues of the bill, I will not go into detail, I think that, as well as the issue of CCT and urban transport, our issues and disagreements have been raised. We believe that there is an attempt to privatise urban transport. For us, the public nature of urban transport is non-negotiable, and only in this context can we and want to discuss dealing with the existing problems in the transport that have arisen from wrong or irresponsible actions by previous governments. Why do we not want SYRIZA's mistakes to be the alibi for the idea of some liberal thinking schools in New Democracy, as it had been attempted, unfortunately, in the past. The second issue relates to the Staff Regulations. Our rapporteur has again been mentioned. We think that industrial relations should not be disturbed and should be sought to have a working peace rather than a destabilization of the workers. We think there should be a modern framework for regulation, but that should be the product of dialogue. Because the logic of deregulation of everything, which seems to have been adopted within the government, is not only ideological, but also counterproductive, and of course, we will be against these logics. We want and support development initiatives. We seek our ideas and proposals to find a resonance rather than a resonance on a wider field or on a self-promoted progressive front, but on the genuinely popular social field, where the real social majorities also change their relationships. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating a bill of great importance today, especially for the Greek region, which has been awaiting it so far because of the arrangements for the operation of the water network. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country, where the aquatic element is dominated, on the basis of the morphology and the coastlines and our islands, the operation of airports can make a decisive contribution to economic development. Let me remind you that the effort began in 2003, with a PASOK government, by the then Minister, Mr Vérelis. The results were followed by Law 4416/2013 and Law 4568/2018, without, however, Minister, the expected results. What needs to be stressed, however, is that, for the operation of the waterways, the thorn has always been the huge bureaucracy, which, unfortunately, was not overcome by the recent provisions of Law 4568/2018, a law which, instead of adopting a development perspective, remained committed to outdated regulations, involving many public services and many delegated provisions, which have never been adopted. As a result, this law was, in fact, to remain inactive and this was under the responsibility of the previous government. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill aims to tackle bureaucracy and it is a positive development, Minister, to combat it. However, this will, of course, be seen by the promotion of the operation of water. I'm coming to the settings. Basic regulations, Mr Minister, are: The introduction of a single licence for the establishment and operation of water, instead of two stages of licensing. The granting of a licence to set up water and private individuals. The possibility of water treatment in tourist ports, i.e. marinas, shelters, anchorages, areas of integrated tourist development and complex tourist accommodation, as well as the creation of water fields at places where the construction of a waterway is difficult or economically inconsistent. It is a framework, Minister, that we expect it to work for our economy and our transport, both for the needs of the inhabitants of the remote regions and for the country's tourism economic development. That's why we're positive. After all, my homeland, Aetolocarnania, the county from which I come and I'm elected, and Vonica and Mesolonghi and Amphilochia and Nafpatto are long waiting for the water routes. I come to the second part of the bill and to the provisions on transport, registration of passenger vehicles, the CBEL and the tourist vehicles. In Article 30, Minister, you are modifying the provisions of Articles 4a’ and 4b of Law 3446/2006, but you do nothing to promote implementing provisions that we have been waiting for since 2014 and specific ministerial decisions that will trigger new fines for truck infringements. It should be stressed here that it concerns provisions that have already been passed today and are being modified, but it will remain inactive. And until the new decisions are adopted, citizens are subject to the old strict regime, and you need to see this. That is why you are now setting a specific deadline for the adoption of ministerial decisions. We're waiting to see it. Minister, you are abolishing the CCEE regulation and leaving the workers exposed to employers. We are vertical but perpendicularly opposed to this arrangement and you need to get it back. You have heard and heard the representatives of the CBC say that they are prepared to introduce a new modern regulation together with the workers. I ask you: why don't you expect the new regulation to be prepared and then with the agreement of employers and workers to take the decision? I come to the old age of the buses. On the issue of the old times of tourist buses, I would say, which should be counted is the category of vehicle pollutants and their technical control. Minister, the choice of an age limit for the purchase, the withdrawal of a tourist bus cannot be based on other factors and cannot, because it will then be done at the appropriate level. Article 36 has already raised the question of the specific nature of public transport, by taxi. In other words, there is a risk that the provision will not be in line with other provisions of the legislation. We are opposed to the introduction of the prison sentence and you have rightly abolished it with the law-making you have brought. In addition, provision must be made for transport to and from the regional section of taxis. A positive development is the legislative improvement that you have brought, but also to the seat of taxis, not only to the CBELs. Furthermore, the arrangement for connecting the airport with the city of Preveza with regular urban transport is indeed necessary. But here, Mr President, I do not understand why you have entrusted this work with the bill only at the Preveza CCT and you have excluded the Aetolakan CCT. I'd like an answer. Besides, there is time to see it and to include the Aetolokarnania CATEGORY. Finally, with regard to the award of urban routes to the CBELs by the Athens and Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisations, it is planned to provide 23 million from the state budget per year for two years. The situation in urban buses is, in fact, tragic and you and all of us know it, particularly in Thessaloniki. This money, however, could be exploited by the organisations themselves for the maintenance of immovable buses and not go for the rental of other buses so that the organisations could be strengthened and carried out the public work they need. The regulation you are bringing, however, is, I would say, rough and fragmentary. It's not the problem, Minister. That is why we are opposed and please see it again. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the operation of water will make a decisive contribution to the launch of a new era for air transport in our country. The daily life of the residents of remote, vulnerable regions, people who feel abandonment will be upgraded, while at the same time strengthening our tourism that is also our heavy industry. And that, of course, is the most important thing. We expect, however, not all of this to be left in this context and, indeed, the bill today on paper and on theory, but to be implemented. Minister, in conclusion, we call on you to take account of the proposals made by our rapporteur, Mr Goka, which provide a solution to the transport of the country. Finally, as regards the issue that many of us have dealt with in Greek society, the red loans, we should finally all understand that we should already be on the way to Cyprus, that is to say, that the borrowers should be ahead of the foreign fund. All the rest is semimeters. It is not possible for the houses of the households to go to the rents of the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. I was a little strict in time with Mr. Katrin, because everyone knows he's my friend, and then Mr. Janakopoulos following the Stepma would finish tomorrow's speech. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u401	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try not to abuse my time. I think that in this Chamber I am obliged to comment and point something out, which has been rather unnoticed. It has nothing to do with your bill. It is a bad day for Europe today. And it is a very bad day for Europe, and I think we have a duty to say this in this Chamber, because for the first time in post-war Germany, in the state of Thuringia, it was created, although there was then a resignation of the Prime Minister, a government among Christian Democrats, liberals and far-right AFD. For the first time a political unwritten rule has been broken, and I think that will affect political developments. It is a symptom of a change of phase for all of Europe, and it is a huge source of concern for us. It is not something that only concerns Germany, it is all about European societies, it is about the whole of our societies, because it seems the last time - and it also seems in Greece - that there is a precedent for right-wing ideology and right-wing political forces. Here I would like to make a point without any desire to raise the tone on the immigration - refugee issue. The New Democracy, and the government as a whole, must understand that it cannot be a privileged interlocutor or primarily apologies to the extreme right-wing forces in the Greek Parliament or in the Greek society. In other words, the way in which I hear Mr Mitsarakis also has a mood of apologizing to extreme right-wing criticisms is what shifts the spectrum of politics and links towards directions which can prove dangerous. That's not a matter of formalism. It's a matter of deep political choice. Who's the gentleman and the privileged interlocutor? Is it the democratic progressive world or is it the extreme right? The government has to decide who he wants to answer. It wants to respond to democratic forces, those forces which, despite their political differences, share - I hope - a common worthy framework, or want to respond to powers of xenophobic, racist, anti-Russian, anti-Russian, anti-Russian, anti-Russian, anti-Russian, anti-Russian forces who are actually preparing the ground to see again, as we saw the day before, in our country, which I think will not be a good development. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about investment, about growth, about jobs, about prosperity, and because the political reason for the New Democracy before and after the elections has focused on the issues of growth, let me make a more comprehensive political position on how the Greek economy is moving. And because Mr Mitsotakis congratulated the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, as highly successful and the Minister came here and admired himself for his great successes, we have to say two words about what is going on in the Greek economy, what is the image of the country, what is the results of the first seven months of this government policy? I will tell you three - four points and focus on a fifth. We have a drop in industrial production by 8%, for the first time, after five years. We have a drop in exports. We have a fall in retail sales, which you know in an economy like Greek play an extremely important role for growth rates. We have a slowdown in growth rate after June 2019. But I think that the main element, which also marks the completely different concept of what it means and how you serve a development policy, is related to the deterioration of the job situation. And this is about today's bill, and I'll say later. What do we got? We have a change of trend. For the first time since 2018, we have had a tendency to increase - take care - not only of the minimum wage, with the exit from the memorandum, we have had a tendency to increase the average wage, after seven years where we had a constant trend to reduce the average wage, the trend to slow down in 2015-2016-2017, but the first time that there was a tendency to increase the average wage was with the exit from the memorandum, the reintroduction of collective bargaining, the move made by the government at the time to increase the minimum wage, but also the moves to restructure the labour market, which created another treaty in the Greek economy. Today, we have again reversal of this trend. We've got a pay cut. We have a reduction in fines for black and uninsured work, a recent initiative by the Minister of Labour - the god to make him - by Mr Brutsis. We are abolishing collective bargaining. In other words, we have a political direction and a political orientation that brings us back to reality in the darkest memorial period, bringing us back to policy 2012-2013 where the tone for labour policy was given by the International Monetary Fund. We have an international monetary fund policy without the International Monetary Fund. And it turns out, Mr Mitsotakis, a lot more aggressive than working rights than the International Monetary Fund. And this option - be careful - is not the result of political insufficiency, it is your ideological orientation, it is your ideological rage that imposes this policy. Because, for you, growth - you are saying this - is conditional on the dismantling of the labour market, the complete deregulation of the labour market, you say it in the liberal language: the cleansing of market stiffness. Let me tell you what labour market stiffness is: they are collective negotiations, they are protectionist arrangements, for example for contractors, they are protectionist arrangements from redundancies, they are labour regulations, they are the expansion of collective bargaining. All this is flexibility, all this is restrictive measures because it does not allow investors free to make the most of the productive power of work. So, what do you think? Let us clear up all this, so as to encourage investors to come here and lead the country on a development path. That's not how it works. It's never happened. It hasn't happened anywhere. As much as you honor and respect and apprehend your political ancestors, Reagan, Thatcher, you know that these policies have proved - and empirically now - to be completely failed. But why am I saying this about the labour market? Why are you doing something in this bill, beyond the water roads, which restores precisely this logic of fully deregulation of the labour market. And I'm talking to the Kappa Kappa Tau. What are you doing? You say that you are now abolishing it and giving employers the opportunity unilaterally to draw up the terms and conditions of work, unilaterally deciding on the possibility of changing the object of a worker, unilaterally deciding how to organise the work of all these people. You lead to redundancies, forced moves. So what do we actually have here? The specific case of a general political strategy. The general political strategy is, what I have said, the complete deregulation of the labour market. Its special appearance in today's bill is related to the arrangements you bring about for the CBS, which we, it is clear, are not going to support, but we will criticise them, because not only do they deregulation the field, but they do something else: get back refreshing arrangements of the previous government, which related to the way in which the general assemblies operate, as you allow the general assemblies to be represented by shareholders through authorisations. Do you know what that means? That where we had tried to create a situation where there would be no individual blackmail, as it was usually the President who took the routes and has special powers and so on. What happened before? On the substance, he forced many to authorize the general assembly, appeared at the general assembly, re-entered President and so on. So, a fussy adjuster, you get it back. And I wonder, Minister, why are you doing this, what interests do you want to serve? We expect a clear, clear answer on the part of the government why it will restore things to the former opaque and extremely problematic regime. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me conclude with this. So now, in relation to work, precisely because we are at the reverse of your own policy, precisely because we are in an absolute ideological and political confrontation with your policy, we tabled something which I understand is extremely difficult for you. And I will tell you why: before the elections, Mr Mitsotakis was committed to increasing the minimum wage each year by twice the growth rate. Let's see how close 2019. And we would expect at least, on the side of the New Democracy Government, to say: "If 2019 closes 2%, 2.1% will bring an increase in the minimum wage to 4.2%." You won't. You get another election commitment back. And you need to explain why. In fact, Mr. Stakoras had come out before holidays and said that all the increases that we intended to give are, in essence, included in the increase made by SYRIZA in 2019. Didn't Mr. Stavros know that before the elections? Why then, and Mr. Stavros and Mr. Mitsotakis, were they lying to the Greek people? You took it back to your commitment to raise the minimum wage, which we consider to be inadequate, which is why we brought it yesterday to a law proposal, we tabled it, according to which we recommend to the Greek Parliament that the minimum wage be increased by 7.5% in 2020, by 7.5% in 2021, to return to the height of when we entered the crisis and when you and your government, overnight, have reduced the wages of 22% for all workers and 32% for those who were under the age of twenty-five years, 2012, to remind you, you have ruled by a cabinet act and you have decided this extreme move and extreme intervention on the labour market. And then, we propose that, for the definition of minimum wages, it passes to social competitors, as foreseen before the 2012 Ministerial Council Act. We bring it, put it on the table and honour it touches the core of the political and ideological differences that separate this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the time. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes for some legislators.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have two legislative improvements: the first relates to Chapter 6 of Annex 3, which has been inadvertently written twice. And the second one for the Kappa Kappa Tau stations, which I'll testify to right now. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have supported the 151/9 for the PPS, 152/10 for the CCT, 154/10 for TEV Chania, while the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, supported the 153/11 for the elevation studies. All acceptable and please as articles in the bill and testify to the legislative improvement for the CBS.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u404	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Bukoros Christos, has spoken for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u405	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that SYRIZA is little convincing when it talks about wage increases, when he had the opportunity for four and a half years to deliver his basic announcement, a basic commitment to a minimum wage at EUR 751. He never applied it. Now he's asking for beastly increases from the position of counterpopulation and returning to his old, good, familiar self. We're here today to discuss a bill dealing with waterplanes. It is a great bill, not in terms of volume, because no one believes that waterplanes will become competitive with navigation and will cut off the work of shipping. There is no case at all, because we are talking about means of transport of nine, eighteen, twenty-two. While we had the opportunity to see why all the opportunities for this issue were lost in a multi-ethnic country like Greece, they opened major issues from the representatives of the parties of the opposition. We have heard about the public debt, about investment and who is responsible for the migratory and lasting economic developments where the opposition focuses on the temporary reduction in industrial production and possibly the temporary reduction in retail sales. However, it ignores the key developments in the economy, which are all developments in the last seven months of the Government of New Democracy. The opposition deliberately ignores the cost of borrowing, which has fallen into a historically low level and which improves the debt profile and makes its repayment and service more costly. This is a very important element, ladies and gentlemen, the public debt profile. If we want to be objective, we should not look at what government's hands were shattered by the public debt bomb, ladies and gentlemen, of the Change Movement. We need to see the historical development of the public debt in Greece. Let's see where Constantine Karamanlis delivered the debt with our entry into the European Union - just 21% of GDP - to deliver it to some other governments over 80% and some other strong Greece in 104% and 107% over GDP. So look over there. We must also look at the debt crisis, ladies and gentlemen, and the public debt, which has turned it into a borrowing crisis, so that the Memorandums can come. To see the whole picture to draw conclusions. He said the Officer's spokesman and some other financial data. For wages, of course, we have said that these arguments are very persuasive, because we in the New Democracy believe that only investment and job creation can healthyly increase wages. Only when the demand for jobs is increased will wages increase. Nor does unemployment fall by law, nor does wages increase by laws, in any case. Recently the available income has increased. We've got a fall in unemployment. The comparative figures of October 2019 to October 2018 show a fall in unemployment of two percentage points - these are elements of ELSTAT, they are not elements of the New Democracy - from 18.6% to 16.6%. Building activity recovers. The competitiveness index for our country is being improved, as has the business climate index jumped. These are - if you like - developments that can affect the labour market and wages. We have also heard about investments in various things here, but no response to how they are constantly hiding behind the reactions against candidate investment organised minorities or even executives who are constantly committed to certain opposition parties. He told you names. Only addresses were the Minister of Development and reminded us at the time - that was the government of SYRIZA - and dozens of MPs asked him for appeals to the Council of State and asked questions to stop the Greek flagship work. All this happened in the previous House. Of course, all these are ideals. Of course the business environment had become absolutely hostile to our country over the days of the previous government. That's what we're trying to change, and the image's changing. We didn't hide it from the Greek people. We did so in an election, and we did so in a post-election. We improve the entrepreneurial environment, attract investment and we will do our utmost to follow the public administration, so that we can produce results, because in politics everything is judged. And I did not expect the sound of the bulldozer to scare you so much in opposition and to react so much to an amendment that does not affect the state budget. It burdens investors and is essentially the beginning of the Greek project. It is some preparatory action, when legal loose ends, to have clean ground, to progress the project quickly. Why do you respond if you are really in favour of investment? You are only in favour of investment. And that's not what New Democracy says, but your government act proved it. We have heard here a number of extreme right-wing koruna, a right-wing agenda and so on. from the representatives of Officerial Response. These are issues which have nothing to do with the bill we are discussing. But I just wanted to ask, how does it explain the fact that when the New Democracy rises, the extreme powers and the extreme agendas disappear and when SYRIZA rises the extreme forces and the extreme reason rises? How does that explain - if you want - this function of things? Can you explain it to us? Not to remember who you were running in the squares together in that 2015 referendum. Because as usual, another thing you say is that you're differently working. But we have said, in politics everything is judged by the result. As far as immigration is concerned, the government has legislated and dealt with a matter which it inherited, which has already increased in the past six months, but has done a two-tier law, a structured and organised legislation which has two objectives: firstly, to manage the problem without giving an opportunity to the extremes. And this is done with the closed pre-experienced centres, with the decongestion of the islands gradually beginning with the start of the returns. At the same time, the government's immigration bill also has another objective to send out a strong message primarily to the traffickers, but also to the international community that anyone who is illegally crossing the country's maritime borders cannot hope to do what the traffickers have told them. If they're not entitled to asylum, he'll be back. That's our difference. This is the different message that we are emiting in relation to the previous SYRIZA government, which had sent out the message that in this country everyone can come and the one who is entitled to asylum and the one who is not entitled to it. This is about extreme powers and about immigration, because history is recent and we can all remember it. We should now come to the waterplanes bill. I would expect that today in Parliament's Chamber there will be a productive reflection, because such an opportunity has been lost for the country, which is a multi-lateral country, as we have said, with islands which do not have any transport instruments for many months a year, which the seaplane can join in a combined transport system and operate in addition. It's not going to cut off the waterplane from either the coastline or the air force. No way. The sizes are completely different. If we see worldwide what has happened, all the companies that manage hydroplanes are medium-sized companies, unlike the ferry and airline companies. One clue is that. The second is the morphology of our country and the many islands, the remote areas that have lakes in their area and can be served by transport. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure here, Mr Karamanlis, who is present in the debate and say that this really should be all the bills if we want to have some hope of attracting investment and investors. I am not saying that this will become a success through this bill. But I say that we are creating the environment to invest in waterplanes, more specifically, because it simplifys and clarifys the procedures. What did the previous bill say? Licence for the establishment of water only to public entities. What does today's bill say? First of all, it distinguishes the licence from the licence or if you want and jointly enables private operators to establish and operate licences. She sets out the conditions for who those people might be. What's he doing? It defines the aquatic fields. What did previous law do? He said that every day in a water field six pairs of routes could be made. In other words, in a remote area where there was a need for a rescue operation and three seaplanes would be taken by six shipwrecks would not be able to land another waterplane. The new bill allows for more flights even in the water fields, anchorages, organised tourists, in marinas. Because this is Greece, Greece of the seas, Greece of the islands. And our locusts must also serve and feel that they are not remote and detached from the metropolitan center. Let me ask something hypothetical. Let me not go home to Magnesia and say that from Volos to Alonissos, a passenger takes four and five hours to arrive. Let's go to the dodecanese Halloween. Let's say a visitor arrived by plane or by the line ship in Rhodes. One can tell us how one goes to Agathonisi, which is also in the Dodecanese complex. Hydroplane is such a means. It's a means for man in emergency, for rescues, for such operations. It is an instrument for our locusts to connect to the centre and to the large urban centres. It's also an instrument that changes the country's tourist profile. Of course, arrivals may increase, but we also need to find ways to increase tourist revenues. The hydroplane is aimed at high-income tourists because there are few places, far more expensive tickets. And these expensive tickets can be used by high-income tourists. Greece is really offered to attract such investments. In addition to this, the bill is indeed a complete bill gives potential for growth and for general aviation. Do you know that forty thousand private aircraft exist in the European Union and which, due to bureaucracy, could not approach Greece? All these aircraft also carry high-income tourists. This is a question of Greek tourism. We call on all the wings of the House to vote for this bill because it really is complete, because it really must be the bills that aspire to change the image of the country. The leadership of the Ministry, Mr Karamanlis, Mr Kefaloniannnis and especially the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and all of us New Democracy MPs have set the top goal of changing the image and the essence of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u406	Thank you. I have the honour to inform the House that from the western theories they are attending the meeting after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-eight students and two teachers from the 3rd General High School of Ioannina. We welcome you. Your congressman, Mrs. Head. I don't see any other MP from Ioannina. Minister, because you asked for the floor to tell you that Mr Pascalides will be speaking now. Then there's Mr. Karasmanis, Mr. Akippis. The rapporteurs have asked for a short speech for two minutes. We will finish the procedure with the Minister. Mr. Passalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President, Minister. Today's draft law provides for the possibility of setting up water services by private operators in ports, lakes, marinas, areas of integrated tourist development, even in complex tourist accommodation, and also regulates issues relating to the modernisation of freight and passenger transport with a view both to better organisation of businesses and to the service of professionals in the sectors active in this sector. In particular, the new draft law aims to make simple and short procedures for issuing a water permit with the relevant steps, which are now forty-two, to reduce to half and to establish a secure and integrated institutional framework, which favours their development. In fact, given the intense investment interest that manifests investment patterns from around the world, we hope that at least a hundred water routes will be made throughout Greece. Chapter II of the draft law, as mentioned above, regulates road freight transport issues with the aim of facilitating the development of business activity in the public-sector trucks and companies associated with them. At the same time, particular attention shall be paid to road control issues of the application of transport legislation, as described above, in the respective Union legislation, with the most important Article 30, which makes an effort to facilitate and strengthen mixed control steps. At this point, on the occasion of the provision of strengthening the control scales, I will be allowed to refer a small amount of reference to the huge problem of the coastal trade which is plagued by our country, especially in the area of the Greek-Bulgarian border. More specifically, on the Greek-Bulgarian border, there are currently six official border points or crossing stations: Promachona Serres, Dramas Extremacy, Agios Konstantinos Xanthis, Nymphaia Komotini, Ormeni Orestiadas and Kyprinos Orestiadas. The movement of people and the transport of goods in accordance with European conditions is carried out from these points. It is reported that under bilateral agreements between Greece and Bulgaria, the circulation of lorries is permitted only at the border crossing points of the Serres and Drama Extreme. The Greek authorities responsible for border controls are mainly the Greek police and to a lesser extent the customs office. Unfortunately, both these services suffer from major and chronic shortages both in human capacity and in logistical deficiencies. There is only an independent customs service in Promachona Serres, but it is a subordinated office. At the other points there are no independent customs services and they simply transfer groups of customs officials from the central offices to carry out sample checks. However, this is done at very long intervals particularly after the recent reorganisation of customs by the Ministry of Finance, which made these groups even more difficult. The logistical deficiencies and in this case they are great. Only at the office of Propachona is there a scanner of lorries which are not in service due to damage. In the country of the country, as also permitted the movement of lorries there is neither a scanner nor a weighing scale of the trucks. As is understandable, these shortcomings are important and reflect an image of the resignation of the Greek side on the issues of border controls which cannot be replaced by any attempts by the minimum staff. It should also be noted that, despite the significant normalisation of our relations over the last few decades, there is again a serious problem, particularly at the level of economic infringements, particularly cross-border crime. These problems and the current international context give the border crossing points of the Greek-Bulgarian border, which are quite low. It is said that Bulgaria's entry into the European Union in 2007 as a full member, but not in the SCHENGEN Treaty, the different economic situation and the living standards of both countries, the different economic and, above all, fiscal policies and, finally, the current crisis that has plagued our country in recent years, has led to an increase in cross-border and, above all, economic crime and customs violations along the Greek-Bulgaric borders, which affect the internal economy at local and national level. Illegal circuits and criminal groups of action at a higher or lower level of organisation, taking advantage of freedom of movement within the European Union, and in particular from the shortcomings of national control mechanisms, have developed various methods of illegal activity. For example: the transfer of illegal products through official border points, within large trucks, which, due to the lack of adequate scanner equipment, are impossible to control by existing personnel, the transfer of illegal products through unofficial border crossings through paths, rural roads and forests, using four-motor vehicles and small IX, which are difficult to control, due to subsistence, but also to the lack of vehicles by the police, illegal Greekisations of agricultural products of unknown origin, imports into our country of goods in neighbouring Bulgaria, for which no VAT is issued, and thus to violate European legislation and make these products attractive to the Greek consumer by affecting the domestic economy. The above situation, which is financially affecting this country, especially northern Greece, creates an alpine impression to national entrepreneurs and producers, can be dealt with with with direct and serious support to human resources and logistics of police border services, so as to help with customs, because the problem is serious. In addition, the bill opens the way for the reduction of the CBC by urban transport companies to carry out urban work. After all, the relevant procedure for the Thessaloniki CATEGORIES of the OSTH has already begun. In conclusion, I would like to express my warmest congratulations to the Minister, who has brought this bill to a vote, which is expected to mark the development of a sustainable water network that will enrich Greece's tourism product and serve the better interconnection of the mainland with remote and not just destinations. We hope, Minister, that it will be the beginning of an attempt to combat the rapid increase in the blockade, which is an open wound to your country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u408	Thank you. Mr. Karasmanis has the floor. The following is followed by Mr Apepi, then by those of the rapporteurs who want two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, thank you. I will not go up to the Step, I will speak from my seat, because I will not take the time. I had to ask why I received two calls from representatives of my county and I'll explain later. But what makes me impression is what some speakers have said about public debt. First of all, we have to make it clear that budgetary problems are not just our country. They all have European countries. They don't take them out, though. We hung on Europe's handkerchiefs and, after 'the money', called on the International Monetary Fund and suffered what we had with the three, four Memorandums. But that is not a question of discussion. We often get away from the Bureau and you have to bring us back to order. Mr President, we need to talk about the bill. That's the reality, and that's the truth. I would therefore like to point out that the current government, within this six-month period, has passed a bill forty. For me it's unprecedented. I've been in this room for twenty-four years, and I haven't seen a bill storm coming. In fact, through these bills there are areas, reforms, chronic pathogens being eliminated, solutions are given to citizens, solutions which do not cost the budget, such as this bill, which is the forty-fourth bill that we are going to vote on today. All procedures for the establishment, operation and exploitation of the waters are simplified by this bill. In fact, this bill makes a significant contribution to the economic and tourism development of the country. With the previous legislative framework, there was no progress and progress in this area. As long as I can tell you that in the 2000s there was an announcement about the establishment of the watercourse in Pella, Lake Wegoritis. It was a womb, a magnificence that 15 years has not happened at all and it is not going to happen either. It is a vision which will perhaps be implemented after many years. And since I'm on earth, for me the number one problem in my prefecture is the road network, it's the Halkidona - Edessa road axis. We have the worst road network, we are the only law from Epirus to Alexandroupolis, which we do not have perpendicular to Egnatia Road. In fact, on this road network we have mourned six hundred dead. Five thousand traffic accidents have occurred in the past twenty, thirty years. Tell me if there is another road network in Greece that has so many accidents. There isn't. Fortunately, for me, it is very important that the Minister presents itself, he has shown sensitivity and, indeed, he has willing to characterise this road axis as a project of national importance, which means that all expropriations will be accelerated so that this project can be auctioned in 2020. After all, there is also the commitment of the Prime Minister himself, who has said that this work is a priority. We are therefore awaiting all developments in order for this commitment to be implemented, I repeat in 2020. I'm coming to the bill. Indeed, this bill regulates road freight and passenger transport. What I would like to point out is that this bill improves the process of driving licences to candidate drivers. This is how the bureaucracy and the individual cases of corruption are pressed. For me the introduction of temporary leave is innovation and will give many solutions and will relieve too many candidates. I'm coming to Article 38. The award of the urban routes by the Athens and Athens urban transport organizations is very important and particularly for Thessaloniki where the situation is tragic. There the passenger audience is diagnosed. I have listened with great pleasure that there will be a hundred twenty buses in the near future to serve the urban lines. This will be a great relief, I repeat for the passenger audience. And I come to the calls that I have received from the representatives of the prefecture, who, with a cry of agony and desperation, call for the open steps to be strengthened, for the control procedures to be tightened up, for the steps to be strengthened by a representative from the Ministry of Finance from the Ministry of Finance from the Ministry of Finance, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, from the APRC, to be strengthened, and not just to check on infringements of the Road Traffic Code, but to check the load. In fact, there are major violations of foreign cars. Moreover, foreign cars, with those accompanying them, exploit the impoverishment of farmers and summer months, enter the fields. Because there is an inability to sell products because of the enormous loss of the Russian market, and as much as -. That's where speculation orgasses, angers the irregularity, angers the illegality. It's an Oriental bazaar, Mr. President. This, of course, strengthens tax evasion and tax evasion. You realise that the State is losing huge income from income tax, from VAT, from contributions to insurance and from jobs. So we have to end this reproach. This is a request, Minister, from all the producers, because there is a great deal of exploitation. It will relieve these people and contribute too much revenue to the state. Finally, I would like to congratulate you as leadership, because you have really heard, consulted and heard all the institutions. You have received too many comments and suggestions and improved the bill. This is positively credited to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u410	Thank you. Mr Dionysios Akuppis from the New Democracy has the floor. He's the last speaker. The rapporteurs will be followed for a few minutes and then the Minister will speak last.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most important areas introduced by this bill is to re-activate waterplanes in Greece. There is therefore a solution to the question of the connection, operation and operation of the waterways. This is an issue which is not at all a new one, since the reopening of waterplanes in Greece is a constant demand both for Greek society and for the Greek economy over the last ten years. I am in a position to know that very well since the Istanbuls are an area with very geographical characteristics in which there are particular weather conditions. So the sea transport between the Ionian Islands is extremely difficult, time - consuming and often dangerous. The linking of the islands with the means of transport under discussion is therefore a constant demand for residents, holidaymakers and businessmen. In addition to the commercial and tourist sectors, this instrument can provide solutions to other issues, such as the aerospace of patients from remote areas without an airport. So the part of the water bill is, in my view, more urgent, because, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative initiative once again replaces the legislation adopted by the previous government, which did not even make it any easier to establish and operate the waters. In particular, there was not even a single law - and I stress this - a maritime licence. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is due nowhere but the proverbial frustration and the enormous humiliation of the previous government, which, over a year and a half from the adoption of the current law, had not issued a single regulation, making the law which she voted empty. Furthermore, the reform of the existing framework for water services is necessary because this framework allows only one body - the State - to grant a licence to set up airports. On the basis of the existing legislation, marinas, for example, which have been granted to private individuals could not obtain a licence for the establishment of a water service, as well as large port organisations that have been granted to private individuals could not be authorised. I should like to point out here that the framework under review provided for the withdrawal of licences for Paxos, Corfu and Patras. In other words, it frozen works that had already been licensed, which led to huge delays and delays. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you voted for a bill according to which, in order for an investor to obtain an authorisation to set up a water route, he needs forty-two administrative acts - I repeat, two - with everything that implies in time and in financial terms for someone who wants to depreciate his investment and make a profit. The interventions under the bill under discussion are, therefore, at least crucial and appropriate: First of all, we are moving towards simplifying the existing licensing framework. We are therefore drastically reducing the necessary supporting documents needed both for the establishment and for the operation of the waters. We reduce the number of required Ministerial Decisions to 50%. From where we wanted ten ministerial decisions, we're just going to want five. We're unlocking unsolved applications that haven't moved on. In fact, it is possible to continue the frozen applications normally without having to do the whole process from the outset. I would like to dwell on this measure, since, with its implementation, it is possible to operate water on the Ionian islands even this summer. In addition, new arrangements are introduced to facilitate the coordination of the relevant ministries. In particular, the examination of applications for authorisation is carried out by a ten-member committee. Of course, you understand how rigid, dysfunctional and time-consuming such a committee will be. With today's bill, this committee becomes four-member. Thus, administrative procedures are drastically restricted, and the costs of moving members of the committee are limited. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle of the bill is to support entrepreneurship. This draft makes it possible to create a transport network linking even remote areas of tourist interest. If we're going to be accused of something by the opposition, it's because we're trying to take a step on entrepreneurship so that our economy can take a breath. Or, alternatively, let us judge why we are trying to create transport even in remote areas. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, my special homeland, Zakynthos, will benefit greatly from the start of the watercourses. The island complex of the Ionian Islands, to which Zakynthos belongs, is characterized by a lack of networking between the islands. As a result, a reduced visitability between these islands has been observed with negative effects, inter alia, on the tourist market. I would point out here that Zakynthos is the only island in the Ionian Sea for which the previous government completely ignored the fact that it did not carry out any process of water licensing. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that the current government is clearly showing itself through this bill that it is determined to take the country further and to do what the previous government has promised, but in the course it has refused. It is our duty to help her in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and two teachers from the 3rd General School of Ioannina. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Your MEP is here, Mr. Head. Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u413	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Georgiadis just now mentioned me as a key reason why the investment in Greek is blocking. Mr. Georgiadis doesn't want the citizens to have a say on their land. In Kassiopi and the Desert, an issue that I had fought in the European Parliament, does not even want the municipality to decide on the level of buildings. In Skouria, citizens do not want to have any say about their air, forests, their water, their health, their economic activities, their livelihood. In Greek, the municipalities don't even want to get the city fees. In Thrace, he wants "golden jelly", no one speaks of future mining and no one reacts. Mr. Georgiadis, we at Mera25 will give voice to the voices you want to keep quiet and stand against you against any investment that is against and against local societies and the environment. So be sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u414	Thank you. Mr. Villiardus has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I should first like to refer to the New Democracy colleague who said about the public debt profile. I don't know what profile a public debt can have at 180% of GDP and 350 billion. But what should be seen above all will be the private debt profile, the red private debt, which was 10% before the crisis. It was practically not a crisis, but a trap set us up by the IMF and today 150% of GDP has passed and continues to have an upward trend. When mass auctions start, he will certainly understand what this is about. It's over 330 billion euros if you do the burdens here. Now the issue of water has been exhausted. It is, of course, quite a positive step and we will therefore vote for it although it has many problems, several of which we have pointed out in the hope that they will be corrected. If not, unfortunately, the water routes will not have the expected results. We have also mentioned our concerns about the articles that we will vote against and hope that the government will correct them in the process. I would like here to refer to the intervention of the former President of this House, who has sincerely vindicated me to a great extent, especially because I believe that he is a mild and reasonable person and I very much appreciate him. However, instead of indirectly complicating the MP of his party for his earlier right-wing and violent behavior, he referred to security battalions, to parties of the constitutional arch without saying exactly what he means. I would not like to contradict him by saying that for parties on the memorial arch, nor for the anti-constitutional reversal of the referendum from his party in 2015. I would stress, however, that we have been put at the forefront of key members of his party, as it is, of course, hesitantly, because we do not hesitate to tell the truth about the crimes of all the previous Memorandum governments, especially as regards SYRIZA: the closure of the banks, the third Memorandum with which the two previous ones were safeguarded, the superstition with which all the public assets of the Greek people were transferred to the foreigners, the ADP which he made, the Macedonian and much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u416	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u417	I shall start with reports of the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, because many speakers, but also the Deputy Minister, have spent some time. It has at least two reports that the installation of a waterway has been subject to subcategory A2 projects, which means that projects and activities are such that may cause significant environmental impacts. Therefore, it expressly states that an environmental impact assessment is required in order to have specific conditions and restrictions for environmental protection, and that specific articles and laws are also mentioned. Nowhere, however, is there any such commitment to you as government that you speak of green growth, but rather hypocritical. It seems, of course, from the amendment on Kassiopi Corfu. The postponement of a decision by the municipal council, the shortcomings in environmental impacts and others Mr Georgiadis falsified them and interpreted them as a declaration of inability by the mayor. And with this misinterpretation he grabs responsibility and at the same time threatens that he will have the same fate as any mayor who does not agree with him and above all does not help the rush and speed he shows to smash business interests with state wealth. He confirmed and convinced once again that the dictatorship of capital is serving and that is why the auctions are speeding up and new homeless will create your policy. And as far as the Greek is concerned, he did not say that after the bulldozers the investor would pay for them, why does the Ministry do so before the transfer of the shares? So the investor doesn't rush to get this fillet as soon as possible and not have any chances? Simple logic. However, I cannot comment on the competition today and yesterday's New Democracy and SYRIZA government over who is best and faster privatising state property, so it is 60% of the BSE requirements that SYRIZA met, it is 40% left. And I'm ending with the amendments. I referred to two in my speech. In one regard to the extension of employment contracts for eighteen workers in Chania, we agree. What does this extension show, though? It shows that these workers need, so with a permanent employment relationship and on the occasion of extension of contracts. They also need other services, such as structures for refugees, hospitals, forests and elsewhere. As regards the amendment to the Liquid and Gas Stations and Gas Services for the needs of ultra-urban buses, the further liberalisation and the extension of private-use vehicles also does not find us in agreement and we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u418	Thank you. Mr Gocas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a bill on the main provision of water routes and many provisions on dispersal transport is closed. However, what remains as a start of the bill is that the air transport sector is indeed trying to modernise it, and that is why we are positive about these provisions - and I said it in committee too - because they contribute to economic, tourist, social development and to the inhabitants themselves who are in difficult accessible areas through a network of air transport with seaplanes. We are also voting on other provisions. There are provisions, however, which we do not vote on. In principle, however, they say 'yes' in the bill. We point out for the water roads that the issue of bureaucracy is always there, is being held in custody. Even for the small percentage, for example, of the waters that will require environmental authorisation, procedures are not simple. So joint ministerial decisions will have to work hard on the problem of bureaucracy. Then, Minister, improvements were made to legislation. We expected there would be others in line with our proposals. Some of them also cover some of our own remarks, such as the residence permit that has five years to get a licence. We also said a reasonable extension, if there is progress on the project, there could be a way of not canceling an investment, because there might also be some unforeseen causes or uncertain factors. However, some issues remain relating to the movement of lorries, which are put to temporary immobilisation where there is an issue with insurance contributions and dues. In the mixed steps of control we asked for interest, we didn't see anything. In the Staff Regulations with which the CBS operate, we said that all five years on the market, but all twenty-seven on the traffic, should be subject to checks on emissions of pollutants and on technical control by the CTEO, so we believe that these restrictions should not exist. For the urban transport of Thessaloniki - Athens, we said that we need to ensure the public nature that we believe could be better ensured if these resources were made available to the agencies themselves to maintain their vehicles or hire used vehicles. We object to the "Athens Development S.A.", as we have said, for the intra-Government mobility that we believe is only about officials, it cannot be about lawyers with fixed wages and, indeed, about bodies outside the general government. As far as the Greek is concerned, we say 'yes' to investment and we will see 'yes' and Article 67. It remains only the issue of the essential development of the project, so that we do not find ourselves again in other developments and look at why the project and investment do not go any further. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall start with Amendment No 153 on Kassiopi. And that is what we say 'yes' to investment, Minister, we simply cannot say 'yes' to subtracting responsibility, in the way it is done. Because, in the name of development, we will be able to cancel institutions at once, there may be other problems with other agencies, with other approvals. We cannot make the laws out on a case-by-case basis by means of legislation. So for reasons of principle here we say 'no', although we want the investment to go ahead, and we believe that there could be another arrangement that could solve the problem without reaching the cancellation of the first degree of competence. In Amendment No 151 I have put it. We will vote 'at present' because we want to have a working environment dialogue at the Civil Aviation Service. We have said "yes" to the CCEE offices and to the last staff deposited in the area of the Restoration of Natural Disasters of Chania we will say "yes", as they cover some immediate needs and can assist in the new problems that were created beyond the responsibilities of these officials since their recruitment, even though we had our reservations about how this process had evolved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u420	Mrs. Perka has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u421	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting with this. We have been told about the water routes in the committees many times, Minister. But I'll put a class in history. In my term as Secretary-General, we had taken the two licenses to Paxos and Patras and tried to get Corfu on with a law we found. Then there was the first attempt to separate the licence and the licence. There's been a lot of effort, and why am I saying that? Regardless of the point-by-point arguments, how we approach the issue of the authorisation to a private person, I want the waterplanes to fly. I really want it, and I wish it. I see your statements. The fact is that at least one of the two companies that waited for years to get their licenses had sent us that if he took three licenses he would fly. In other words, it seems that the market is not responding. Of course, the state must do the framework. Although we disagree, I just want to say that we don't have that kind of hope. A lot of the provisions of the bill have been worked out personally, except for the ones we disagree with. We also need to know that this cannot be a transport. It's a product that really helps the cruise, and we want that too. It would be a wishful task if it could be extended to aerospace and other forms. But let us not imagine that we will take them as buses take and that there will be traffic between the islands. I am going to stop by the water and go a little further to the general transport system. I've lived through it, and I know that part well. It's a very developmental part. The Ministry regulates a large market, i.e. beyond the strategic, planning, etc., regulates a difficult market and a market which has been hit by the crisis. So when you go - because there are interest groups and I do not say so in a bad way - to favour one another, something is missing. I said it to the committee. These must be done, with very great consultation, with great attention. A new streamlining law is needed in all, both in passenger and freight transport. Here we have some provisions, which we will certainly not vote on, which do exactly that, take them from here, give them from there. There's going to be a balance. I understand that with what stress you legislate. But at some point we have to end this with transport. It is also a very positive provision with the mixed tiles and I hope it will be made on the ground to catch the cabotage. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have put them on the table. We talked about working peace in the U.S.A. We need to do a postgraduate course to find out what each takes and from where, how many units are EURO CONTROL. There is also the EURO MONEY. They're getting ready for strikes. That's not how that works. They want a conversation. As far as Cassiopi is concerned, I considered the placement unacceptable. Mr. Georgiadis didn't convince us at all. I hope he's listening to me. Ultimately, we should abolish local government. I mean, if it doesn't make us and we have objections, we should abolish it. But let him come and say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u422	But the mayor who doesn't respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u423	He's not the mayor. Can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u424	You're addressing the Bureau, Mrs. Perka.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u425	This is not a project, it is all the projects under L.4389. As far as natural disasters are concerned, it is clear that we want prolongation. I want to say two words about the Greek. That's what hurts me. In 2001, an airport left where it was. Until 2011 nothing happened at all. Others did some studies that fell in S.T. Uh, the plot was clear, no topographical or nothing. On the eve of the 2015 elections, that is, in 2014 Mr. Samaras made a contract and a competition on a plot, without topography, without delimiting ramifications, without a sanctuary, without anything. Since 2012, all the actors had to have left the media, who are sixty-nine. I've worked on it one, two to three months. The operators are the trains, the HR, the private, etc. And all this with a frame, with eleven erectative sects, that is, the investor got it and bound the state to 11...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u426	You had your colleagues do you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u427	You'll listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u428	Mr. Buquoir, please. Let the process be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u429	...with eleven abstract sects, i.e. administrative maturation, to make presidential, to make the public management body, to drive out the agencies... And we have a glimpse of heresy. Two were the particularly problematic. One was the casino contest, which had to be made by the Greek State, by the independent authority, to find the price, so they would describe and speak with the "casines", but there would also be the prediction that on the other day the shares would change hands, the investor, the "casine" - I'll call it that - to speak with another owner. This is a puzzle, how we managed to take out the casino contest. You found him in the air, in the process, and he went fine. Let's go to the last one that's a world originality. What does "LATD" say? "Great all the things you've done. Now, however, to get it and give you the money, there must be no legal action pending." There is no such thing, because this work constantly has appeals. In the last act the CIA will be in, someone will be able to resort. So LAMD can delay the project as much as it wants. We have not put it in the public debate, because it is precisely the convention that provides that it may retreat. We imagined that both with us and with the new government would not make use of this term. But Mr. Georgiadis mentioned it today and said that a partner... Alas! Mrs Vlazakh protected what she had to protect and cooperated, so we unblocked this project. It was first on the agenda with the institutions, they said the evaluation was not closed. Every time, he was fine. We kept the schedule exactly and we reached it at the point with the contest in the air, with the three HQs working, to have arrived at the final stage, which is the central council and left the last act that is the distribution. And one last word, because I can also hear about SYRIZA's anti-investment policy. It's another logic. The investments that New Democracy says have brought the country into this situation with ECU 320 billion. debt, humanitarian crisis and unemployment at 28%. The investments we see have taken the country out of the memoranda and come into a framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u430	Thank you. Mr Simopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u431	I will be brief, Mr President. I'm an engineer anyway. And Mrs. Perka is an engineer, but in the ostrich she escapes. First of all, Mrs Perka, the SYRIZA rapporteur, referred to many issues which, one way or another, I have dealt with. And he said a name of the former Secretary General of the Ministry of Culture, which I do not want to mention. Because when I think of that name, my mind goes straight to the subway of Thessaloniki. She is the main contributor with her associates in Thessaloniki for what is called the "problem at Venizelos Station" of the metro. In Greek, as far as Archaeology is concerned, we went to have a parallel situation, as in the metro of Thessaloniki. Of course, I heard before Mr Janakopoulos, who is leaving, referring to the road to Athens - Patras, Elefsina - Patras, where, yes, the projects have been relaunched. The government then revised the conventions passed by Parliament. And the SYRIZA government came and stopped the works. And then, he inaugurated into projects, in which he had participated 1%. Since 2013, I have heard about the Greek. At that time, we were discussing the flooding projects, because the concession tender had been made for the possible subjugation of Vouliagmenos to connect the airport to the Greek. And we have arrived seven years later to say now that the bulldozers will soon get in and we will have a problem with this. The same happened with Cassiopi and Afantou. Then I was, another seven years ago, a member of the Management Board as a representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure of the Ministry of Infrastructure. We arrived after seven years, and we still have problems. And we have problems, because it is precisely because the SYRIZA rapporteur said so - they have a different logic. People are capable of stumbling archaeology or environment to stop everything. And go ahead, they had that logic before. Today, which is now a government party - have they ruled for four and a half years - are they back to the logic of 3%? Will all the works be stopped with various stumbling blocks? In whatever effort the current government makes to overcome problems, will we have against this SYRIZA group, one side of SYRIZA, which is fascinated by SYRIZA of 3%? The same procedure is for water. I hope that, when the process of setting up, installing and operating starts, we will not have the same things again by the same groups, in particular, of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I would like to speak for less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u433	Why, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u434	I mean, after the check, since he found the mixed control steps, the fine is paid on the spot. Because foreign trucks disappear and are lost and public revenue is lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u436	I would like to begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the amendment on the PSC on 151/9. Let's get a few things straight, 'cause things don't work out. With the reorganisation of the SYRIZA government, over sixty telecommunications workers were transferred to the electronics sector. Of this, we are a little higher in the percentage that the electronics receive EUROCONTROL, so that there is no loss of income. We realise that such a move is likely - not sure - to have a few reductions, but very small, in another sector. We will rectify this situation if we find that another sector has been imposed. To have a clear picture, however, the provision relates to an allowance for EUROCONTROL, namely, there is no financial impact. Generally, to say what the government has said, there are four base points, as they are said. Each one corresponds to three million euros. One and a half units will be given to air traffic controllers as a bonus for efficiency, which is the first time in the wider public sector and is - I think - a very great innovation. So what I would like to make clear - because I hear about strikes and reactions, which are excessive - is that the remaining two and a half units will be made available in such a way that no UAA branch is reduced. Now let's go to the Ministry's amendment with a general number of 154 and a special number 12 for the Regional Unity of Chania. You all know that they were hit by heavy rainfall in February 2019. It was established in the area of Restoration of Natural Disasters, Chania, which was served with sixty people. These officials serve daily citizens who apply for autopsies and repair permits. It is therefore necessary to extend the duration of the above staff, which have, moreover, acquired the necessary experience and for an additional eight months. I note that this expenditure has been included in the budget. Therefore, there is no burden. Let's go to the bill now. Before I begin, I too would like to really express my thanks to the members of the committee for the excellent climate in which the draft law was discussed. It is, perhaps, one of the few times - I think - that has been a very substantial dialogue. We've heard all the fertile views. This - I think - shows a maturity of the political system, that on some points, we can parties that have different views, basically agree. I am very pleased that the reason why we need to make this change has been understood. I don't want to go back to the past either. Just to remind me that the investment law, the Law 4146 that New Democracy voted for in 2013, provided an adequate framework, on which the only three licenses for water routes were based, which you quite rightly said you were doing. In this context you have relied on. I refer to the waters of Corfu, Paxes and Patras. I would say that this was an inspiration for other countries, such as Croatia, which drafted its own railway law, based on this legal framework. But what happened next? This law will be blocked by the SYRIZA government, so that seaplane flights are stopped. They've stopped. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u437	They never flew.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u438	They flew for a while pilots. They're stopping. And after you leave the Ministry of Transport...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u439	But they never flew, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u440	I didn't interrupt you. The government of SYRIZA brought in 2018, three years late, a law that not only hits investment, but essentially shut down all possibilities because of bureaucracy. This law was called upon, as Mr Georgiadis rightly said - which is true that he took the initiative and invited us to the Ministry of Development - within six months to simplify it. This is a draft law which has come out in time in the consultation process and which, as I have said before, all the opinions have been heard. So the bill comes to correct the bad texts of your legislative framework and, at the same time, to achieve two main objectives: the rational liberalisation of the institutional framework of the water route. Here too, I would like to quote one, because we hear a number of poor political analysis of neoliberalism. The role of the state - that is what the New Democracy believes and has always believed it - is a supervisory role and not a 'patter' role. We put the framework in place and let the market function. So the second thing we do is to simplify and speed up procedures. So what does this bill provide for in the main part of it? Firstly, it resets the procedures for the establishment, operation and operation of the waterways. Secondly, it provides the possibility of a two-stage licence, i.e. a licence to establish and license. Thirdly, it gives the possibility of authorizing the establishment of a water service, not only to a public body but also to a private body. What do we say? We're saying it doesn't have to be public. Maybe a private person will come and create a waterway. And I don't really understand, because there was this obsession with public water routes, as if the investor would take the water road - which is his sea - home. These things are ideas that belong to the past. We live in 2020. Don't find the wheel in this country. Let us look at the good practices that exist in other countries and imitate them, where they are good and work. Fourthly, it allows for authorisation to set up a water service without the requirement of inspection to enable the investors concerned to take action when the authorisation is granted and when they complete them. Fifthly, the framework for permitting water supply in tourist ports, i.e. marinas, anchorages and areas of integrated tourist development, as well as complex tourist accommodation, is extended. What do we do? We give the opportunity to do the waterplane what it needs to do, to go almost everywhere, without the state coming and forcing companies to go to specific areas. One can have a tourist accommodation in one area and can welcome a waterplane. Why do we create stumbling blocks? Sixth, the ability to train the staff not only by the PSC, but also by other certified bodies, where the supervisory role of the State will be exercised. Seven, a small committee of water which will be responsible for these inspections. It is therefore clear that the vote of the bill aims to create and develop a sustainable water network that wants to enrich Greece's tourism product. Look out! No one can say for sure - and I want to be honest - when private companies will come to invest. Our role is to set the framework and help private companies come and invest. That's how healthy liberalism works. That's the logic. The logic is not to order or impose where the waterplanes are to fly. I want to believe that soon we'll see waterplanes flying. I have the impression that the whole market thinks that the Dodecanese or the Ionian Islands are a privileged place for the development of a waterplane network and it remains to be seen, even if we have made some mistakes, that we should make it easier to attract the development of waterplanes in our country. This draft law, however, also regulates a number of other issues relating to road and freight transport, an area that - I will agree with you - is a large part of our national economy. I think it is one of our comparative advantages. That's what I think we're agreed on. You are quite right that we must take seriously, because at the moment there is a legislative anarchy, I would say. I do not want to say who is responsible for this or who is not responsible. Let us leave the past and let us sit down and see what we can do together to regulate issues such as the orderly functioning of public regular services and urban transport, with CBELs and special tourist buses. The whole market knows that this legislation we are bringing about allows, for example, for the circulation of tourist buses, where their age does not exceed five years, instead of eleven, and the corresponding limit for special open-ended tourists is eight years, with the aim of reducing the environmental footprint in the transport sector. As far as the CBS is concerned, there are a series of arrangements aimed at strengthening investment in stations and in general for installations in the suburban and urban CBS, as well as replacing these buses from the existing indisposed balance of the EDP, amounting to EUR 2.3 million. With Amendment No 152 and Amendment No 10, we are making two very specific speeches. Firstly, it is allowed to establish and operate a service for the supply of liquid and gaseous fuels - I repeat, public use - from legal existing long-distance bus stations, since all the conditions applicable to all stations are met. Secondly, with regard to private-use liquid-fuel stations, because conversion processes are complicated and time-consuming, we propose the end date until 31 December 2022. Of course, as part of our overall plan to solve the huge problems of buses in Athens and Thessaloniki, there is provision for the possibility of carrying out part of the transport project in both OSCE and OSH areas, by the relevant CBELs. As you know, we expect the green light from the Court of Auditors and in a few days' time we want to hope that there will be at least a hundred buses in Thessaloniki, with the first CCEE vehicles to come, so that the citizens of Thessaloniki, who have been experiencing a huge suffering lately, are finally relieved. For, quite simply, OSH's statification has led to this situation and we are called upon to correct the criminality, in my view, of this statement, which, unfortunately, had the approval of the European Union. What we said we would do and do has been said as an opposition. In terms of taxi, we are also able, with the provisions of the bill, to streamline the penalties. Secondly, we should remove the provision for a three-month prison sentence and impose a single administrative fine of EUR 3000. Thirdly, we are widening the scope of the multiple rental of a taxi in cases of interregional mobility, because that is what common sense demands. For example, you're in a prefecture like Serres Prefecture, and you want to go to Thessaloniki and you want to take a taxi to visit a doctor. You can, under the conditions we see, take a taxi and share it with two and three other customers, when it comes to one, if you want, which is an out-of-regional route. And fourthly, we are doing what we call decentralisation. We give the regions the power to combine the taxi seats and to define parking places, because each region has its specific characteristics. Finally, in the Civil Aviation Authority, we are correcting some scandalous photographic provisions so that we can proceed immediately to the statement of the post of commander of AMP. Because by SYRIZA's proclamation, he photographed a single individual.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u441	And here's two.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u442	Well, it won't be one. So you wanted to transfer your favourite commander to the PD and make him commander of the PD. This is not the case in African countries! The amendment, as I said, deals with the issue of the allocation and disposal of EUROCONTROL amounts. In particular, we are again coming to correct, if I may, the bad texts of Law 4427/2016 and the two applicable presidential decrees, 84 and 85 of 2018 on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Security. So that is what we are doing with this amendment and as I said at the outset, without burdening the state budget. In closing, Mr President, and addressing ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that you have in your hands a comprehensive bill, essential, which is the basis for the development of a sustainable water network, in the spirit of the New Democracy Development Act of 2013. It is a bill that we believe and believe will really strengthen investment interest in our country and, furthermore, it is a bill that solves a series of daily problems in the passenger transport sector, respecting both professionals and the public. We proved this because we did a great deal of consultation during the committee and during the committee, the Deputy Minister, Mr Kefaliannis, whom I would like to thank, accepted many of the Members' proposals. I think that those who followed the procedure of this bill saw that a result came through a constructive dialogue. For all these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u443	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is closed: 'Institution, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-nine articles, four amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all seventy-six areas included in the vote. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u444	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u445	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u446	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport "the establishment, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions" was accepted in a single debate on the principle, Articles and a whole majority of the articles and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u448	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-06-S1-commons.u449	With the consent of this House at 21.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 7, 2020, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
