ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-6-2020 authorisation, PXG's Minutes of Thursday 18 June 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) ‘Principle of the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application’.]] [[A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure)]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report of Monday 22 June 2020, which reads as follows: 1. The question under number 797/9-6-2020 by MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou, Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Without child protection, minors are heading for expulsion in violation of international conventions. Who are the public, transparent services of the National Centre for Social Solidarity (ECD) to be transferred to you? In day-to-day poster or third party.’; 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 800/11-6-2020 of the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Agricultural asylum seekers are over-consummating phenomena outside the Asylum Service." 3. The Question No 809/15-6-2020 by Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The intense dysosmia chokes daily life in the areas of Keratini - Drapetsonas - Piraeus. Direct withdrawal of licences and removal of the polluting industries in the region.' 4. The Question No 804/12-6-2020 by MP of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Highly commissions of banks and 30% electronic income trading". 5. The Question No 801/11-6-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Southern Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Unauthorized shrinking of examination centres for the pan-Hellenic exams'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 815-15-2020 is a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Substantial protests by artists to exclude them from the program "All Greece a culture". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "People, students and teachers are asking for the examinations of at least four hundred candidates for the special courses to be carried out in Crete". 3. The Question No 807/15-6-2020 by MP of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villiardou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Incentives for importing electric cars and not for domestic production". 4. The Question No 805/12-6-2020 by Congressman Pireos of Merais 25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Manufacture of a shipyard in Perama". 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Signature proposals from business operators in the Region of Crete, to support work and business". The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions to be discussed today are as follows: The question under number 814-15-2020 and the question under number 6008-27-24-20 of the reporting cycle, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The Question under number 808-15-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. The 818-15-2020 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Psulakakis. The Questions Nos 802-12-6-2020, 811-15-2020 and 817-15-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr. Vassiliou Kontozamanis. And the question under number 799-11-6-2020, and the question under number 6077-30-4-2020, in the circle of petitions, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr Ioannis Kefaloniannis. The Secretary-General asks us for the appropriate steps we have taken. The first two questions will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. We begin with the third question under No. 814/15-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Syngaki, with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The cleansing of criteria for mobilisation of substitutes - hourly teachers, with a contract of conditional working for a certain period of educational staff, professional schools (EPC) of the OAED." Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 27 May, a two-day consultation plan was suddenly sent to individual directors of the EPAs, and even without the participation of the teachers' trade unions involved in the new mobilisation criteria for substitutes and wages of teachers for the new school year. This action, as it were reasonable, caused upset, insecurity and anger throughout the OAED educational community. This draft consultation provides for a change in molecules criteria, especially those of the teaching and professional pre-services, creating injustices and reclassifications in recruitment tables. Changing the molecules criteria that are made every year, which is a problem, for the recruitment of temporary educational staff, leads to some of them, with many years of pre-service at the OAED schools, not to re-enter the new school year and at the same time makes it impossible for any staff, family and social design of teachers to become involved. Teachers and assistants with pre-service - as I have told you - many of them over twenty years, although they are the vast majority of teachers at OAS schools, despite the fact that they support the operation of schools over time and are doing very important educational work, they remain hostage for years, with job insecurity and uncertainty as to whether to re-enter the new school year. At the same time, they have to deal with the continuing deterioration and underfunding of schools, the adverse working conditions and infrastructure, without any care on the part of the government and on health and safety measures because of the pandemic. So we ask you, Minister: What measures will you take to simulate all the contracted teachers of the OAS/IEK schools and stop this miserable hostage regime with the constants and give changes to the molecules criteria, secondly, the teaching prerogative obtained at OAED schools for their recruitment in those schools, as was done with the previous notice, and finally, ensure that state-funded, modern, safe, public building infrastructure of the OAED and upgrade their logistic infrastructure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Syncis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, Mr Synthyakis, in order to win the growth bet, the new political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs places emphasis on and care for the effective exploitation of the country's human resources, as growth is the most crucial factor in international competition. In order to achieve this, effective policies are needed to strengthen the development model and radically change the labour market framework, policies that will restore confidence, credibility and stability in the country. One of these is the operation of the ESDP, the OAS professional schools. Indeed, it is a success institution, which we are seeking to strengthen with a view to doing so. I will therefore agree with you that the OAED apprenticeship schools are indeed making an effective contribution to linking vocational education with the labour market, while at the same time teachers, who are employed in them, are doing a particularly important educational and social work for the students who are studying there. In any case, the new OAED administration is investing in quality apprenticeships, with actions aimed at the overall upgrading of programmes and ensuring professional success for students. Therefore, these teachers must be able to meet the objectives already set for the provision of a high level of vocational training, a level which corresponds to the economic and development orientation of the country, as well as the immediate integration of graduates into the labour market in high demand and absorption skills. In a country like Greece, therefore, the EPA institution offers a very important perspective, a perspective for increasing the employment of young people in particular and better matching and synchronising skills with the needs of the labour market. We, as the Ministry of Labour, in cooperation with the important arm of the Ministry, which is the OAED, are implementing a series of quality interventions, always aimed at improving the quality of vocational education and training, so we are trying to improve all these services, with a view to improving the connection with the labour market. In my dentistry I will develop our views on the question, which you raised about teachers and all that concern about molecules and to remove any doubts and objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, to what shall I say? Questions were specific. The Minister didn't answer. He chose to say he'd answer the dentistry. If he says it in dentistry, who's the adversary next? The role of dentistry is, that is, the Minister answers on the basis of the questions which have been put to him and the possibility for the questioner to be placed for the second time. But there is nothing like that here. We're reintroducing matters. What serves a two-day consultation at the end of the school year in conditions of lockdown, with sincere decisions, to 'decide and order', without prejudice to the consequences for teachers' working, economic and family life? This, on a year-on-year basis, change in the contract for the recruitment of educational staff is a key blow to any hope of recognition. Are you talking about a qualitative upgrade of vocational education, with the employment rights of teachers being broken, by having them on a lasting hostage flying them to Kaidas? In other words, after twenty, even twenty-five years of pre-service and in a lasting hostage situation, instead of perpetuating them, as you say, in order to upgrade professional training with a reinforced pre-service premium obtained in schools, you show them the door of exit. In other words, you put them in a new test with anguish what will be the molecules criteria and whether they are re-entered or not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You did it before. You have them constantly collecting certifications, running to acquire the teaching competence, the well-known ASPATE and other certifications, to differentiate people with any financial difficulties they face today, with children studying, debts, loans, etc. And now you tell them that you do not recognize them with the teaching prerequisites, because that is precisely what is being done with the new molecules. It equates the teaching service within and outside OAED, which means that one can have a teaching service at OAED for twenty-five years and stay outside and someone else who has only professional experience and no teaching experience prior to recruitment. As a minimum recognition of their work and services, teachers with a teaching experience in the OPCW. Many of them, as I have told you, are graduates of pedagogical competence. Any upgrading of the qualifications of teachers must take place under the responsibility of the State and under the relevant heading. In any case, however, in order to end this absurd, unequal and exterior status of contract and wages, the law, necessary and realistic is that these people should at last become permanent and, when they are - be careful - 80% of the training staff of these schools, on the basis of the information provided by the trade unions. Finally, the upgrading of the logistics infrastructure is also necessary. How can you say of quality, to upgrade vocational education, when the logistics infrastructure is in a miserable state? Teachers undertake to play the role of the cleaner, the builder, the technician, the boyiac. This is happening at OAED schools. Of course, protection measures must be taken because of the pandemic. There are no measures of effective protection and hygiene in these areas. Everything the teachers do on their own. They buy personal protective equipment. Because you spoke about linking vocational education to the market, you probably at the edge of your speech said that I raised such a matter. Obviously, that's not the case. This is a policy that you have followed, followed by previous governments. Vocational training, which is directly or indirectly linked to the "jungle" of the labour market and the needs of capital, in our opinion deprives us of the essential content of vocational training, despite the efforts made by teachers themselves. They live, they love it, they work it, but in any case it is a professional training completely linked to this "jungle" of the labour market. It disconnects it from the profession, contrasts with the real people's needs, produces cheap labour and breaks labour rights and teachers, but I would also say the students in the name of flexibility and adaptation to the capitalist market, which you of course also serve,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Synthriakis, despite your reasonable question at the beginning of your speech, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u8	I'm done, Mr. President. We expect very clear answers in relation to moleculosis, because teachers expect them to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I now come to answer the questions you have raised, because some things need to be made clear so that there are no doubts as to the objectives we are pursuing, but also wrong impressions. In particular, in your timely question you say that a consultation plan was suddenly sent on 7 May on the new evaluation criteria for ECDC assistants for the new school year. That's what you're saying. So I answer that what you are saying is not the case, as the proposed amendment was put into consultation with the teachers themselves who serve at the Education PSUs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u11	For two days? Why don't you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u12	Observations and comments received in writing were taken into account at the Department of Initial Vocational Education and Training. I would remind you that the amendment to the No. 6257/D1/2219 on 10 May 2019 - before me - a decision by the previous Minister and the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity was deemed appropriate in order for the Agency to streamline the selection criteria and the evaluation process of educational staff by a contract of conditional working of the OAED professional schools. Also, for the first time in this decision, the electronic submission of applications, through the single digital portal of the Greek State www.gov.gr, is introduced for the candidates for fixed-term teachers of the Learning EPAs. The aims of this amendment are: firstly, the relevant adaptation of the criteria to the respective criteria applied to the Ministry of Education, both in vocational secondary education, the PES and in vocational training. Secondly, the qualitative upgrading of the training provided in the OAS of Learning. Thirdly, the modernisation of the procedure of the notice by applying an electronic procedure through www.gov.gr and fourthly, the definition of qualifications and other certificates of candidates on the basis of those recognised by the AACC. We are therefore talking about modernising and strengthening transparency and the institution. As regards the request for a teaching experience premium obtained at OAED schools, it is noted that additional moleculosis was not included in this amendment for the sake of equal treatment of candidates. Let me repeat this, for the sake of equal treatment of the candidates! Therefore, there is no feasibility. On the other hand, equality and transparency between candidates are being promoted. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as the upgrading of the school logistics infrastructure is concerned, I would like to inform you that the AAD already promotes the use of co-financed energy upgrade programmes for public buildings. In particular, it is going to make a gradual renovation of the building structures of EPAs Kavala, Kozani, Piraeus, Larissa, etc. In addition, proposals for building interventions have already been drawn up in those schools which have been deemed necessary. In fact, these proposals are to be submitted for co-financing and funding under the new ESDP programming period 2021-2027. Finally, the Agency has requested and expects the EMCDDA to co-finance actions aimed at upgrading and improving the two-way system in the OAS Lecturer and in particular the modernisation of part of the workshops and teaching tools of the ESDC, with the aim of providing quality education for apprentices through the purchase of equipment and teaching tools for schools laboratories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u15	It can't be done, Mr. Synchronous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, as far as the procedure is concerned and not the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u17	I have noted your reasonable question...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like a few seconds for the overall point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u19	We are not normally allowed to go into tritology, but here we are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I am here all the time to answer questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u21	Of course you too, Minister, will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u22	Mr Minister, I am not referring to what you have said about the substance of the question. Everyone judges. What I want to say is this. The procedure for parliamentary scrutiny and the rules laid down in the Rules of Procedure are very specific. This means that even if the respondent, but in this case he has come up with the Minister, he does not respond to the protology and chooses the denology, then a serious matter arises. This means that it effectively cancels parliamentary control, at least as you have said. So I would ask you very much to raise a question, because if this happens again, then we will also take our measures. I cannot agree to answer the substance of dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr Synthyakis, I have noted your remarks and with Mr Kegeroglu we will take it to the Conference of Presidents. But as far as you are concerned, I have to tell you that the simplest way is in your dentext to address the Minister and tell him he did not reply. You understand that. And from there on, the press releases begin, so we move on and one step below. Now we will discuss the second question with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the question of "Social Enterprises Workers' Cooperatives, Commons, Social Cooperatives Limited Responsibility (KOSPE) and Female Cooperatives etc. shall be exempted from the financial aid for the affected enterprises under the SMR.’; Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. The social economy is a system for organising citizens' initiatives within the third sector of the economy, distinguished from the private and also from the state. Social enterprises implementing the social economy do not aim to profit, but to deal with strong social problems, primarily unemployment and, of course, social exclusion problems. Greece has, of course, established the social economy and social entrepreneurship through two laws, Law 4019/2011 and Law 4430/2016, which reiterated the 2011 law and added some things. But what is lacking today is a financial instrument that will support this effort based on these laws. Social cooperatives, KOSPEs, women's cooperatives and, of course, workers' cooperatives are effective. We already have many samples and the Ministry of Labour's register go beyond the thousands of businesses and people who are active and looking for a better place in this place, confronting the problems through the collective organisation, the cooperative organisation. So the question to the Minister is why the members of these groups were excluded - there are three, five, seven people who make up each social undertaking - from the support measures. I will also say from my first speech - because developments are also as an unanswered question - that we are discussing, Mr President, these days in the Committee on Production and Trade the bill - a very important bill - on micro-credits for people who are excluded, people who want to do a small activity, but have no guarantees and the intermediary gives them this financial opportunity. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following question: apart from the fact that the members of the social coronary workers have been excluded from supporting measures, I would like the Minister to tell us why he has signed a bill on a crucial issue, this micro-credit, but which does not include as beneficiaries the social enterprises that are in need, because they have no guarantees of going directly to the banks and putting mortgages or anything else. They have an idea or a plan, young people or the unemployed or who have formed the social enterprise and are asking for an opportunity to implement this business plan, their idea, which is of course small capital, small investment. All of this is within the framework of this bill and I would like the Minister's replies if possible from the beginning, while continuing the previous reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u25	It's a very clear question, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. So you give me the opportunity to say something about the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny, and I have to say it on the basis of Mr Syntagakis's tritology, which is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. No provision is made, Mr President. However, you have given the floor to the honourable Member for a timely question to put a third time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u27	Minister, allow me for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u28	No, Mr President, let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u29	It was a point of order that was referring to me and not to you. It's not tritology, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u30	It doesn't matter. In his position he has criticised tritology that is not permitted by the Rules of Procedure. And I come to what Mr. Kegeroglu said. I want to say something, Mr President. This is where we live a reality. As Minister of Labour I raise a very heavy burden of managing very critical social issues. But I'm here, always in the House. There is no timely question for me to be invited by Members and not to honour the parliamentary institution and to be here to respond. I say this in comparison with the past, which is not comparable, because in the past the MPs or the ministers have not been able to answer and, above all, the Ministers for Labour have not been able to do so. It's a reality. We are now not only present, but we are also critical of what we say. In other words, a Member is not satisfied in his timely question from how the Minister is put. That goes beyond all logic. Here we are, the current questions come from the Members, the ministers answer in the way they believe they need to respond, and the criticism and assessment is done outside this Chamber, from the people who are listening to us. You have now seen Mr. Kegeroglu. He is asking a timely question and the subject matter he is developing in his position is beyond the text of the timely question. He's asking me about other bill things. So I accept Mr Kegeroglu's question, extended as it is. It does not mean that I am obliged to answer Mr Kegeroglu on issues that he puts on top of a timely question beyond what he is doing, and to listen to criticism of how we should respond. And you say that you will put it as a matter of the Conference of Presidents. All right, I, Mr. President, I'm here, present. I show my intention and willingness to answer current questions all the time. I will be here to perform my duties by honouring the parliamentary procedure, but I do not agree to enter the process of replying to the Ministers, at least as far as I am concerned. In other words, if I am in a way, let the people assess me in what I say and what I make public position in this House. Thank you very much and I will reply to Mr Kegeroglu in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u31	Wait a minute, Mr. Kegeroglu, because the Minister's prototype was none of your business. Minister, check it out. Mr. Synthrakis made a point of order. I appreciate the fact that you always come, at least when I presiding and you have questions you are always here and answer, of course in your own way. But what you need to understand is that the Bureau is not an inappropriate body, it has certain obligations and one of its obligations are requests which are made by Members to transfer them as procedural matters to the Conference of Presidents. I did not tell you when you were answering whether you were on a matter or off-the-spot. You wanted to answer that and you replied that way. As now, in your prototype, you have responded to Mr Kegeroglu. That's it. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that the House is a vibrant process, it is not cut off from the developments. There are the intervening issues which the Rules of Procedure recognize, and in this context, there is no need to break down a Lord, for example, from the outside, and to do what we do not see. So I come to the question, in which I am absolutely in. My question is the support of social enterprises. I think you all understood it. I recognise that the Minister comes to the questions, as you said, his obligation is, but many have intervened in the past and even now, and he may not have been so regular. In this period, however, he is tactical. Because when we were in the co-operation government many times I also responded on matters that were his responsibility and we participated. We are, however, trying to ask questions about issues that concern the world. We are not asking questions that do not concern the world. So I come to the point of aid, support for social enterprises, which, as I have said, can play a major role in dealing with severe social problems, unemployment, social exclusion, vulnerable groups, people with disabilities, long-term unemployed, are excluded. Two, three, four, five, form the team and the initiative to implement an idea, a thought, a small business plan that they have, away from the logic of profit, to survive, to have work done. And that's the key that support needs. Unfortunately, there is the experience of the Social Entrepreneurship Fund, which was provided for in the previous Community framework, to have been 'whether wings'. It has essentially been transferred, because the necessary procedures have not been launched in the field of the private economy. A total of EUR 500 million went there. So today, on the basis of the coronary, we say that we have a thousand, a thousand two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. In other words, we have five to ten thousand people who want a small support in order to open their wings to solve a problem that concerns the state as well. And that support was not given, but they ruled out these people from the eights. The members of the social corporations were not to the beneficiaries. That is the question, and it is certainly the wider one: can social enterprises not be supported? Is it possible to have a bill on microcredit, that is to say, the 5-10 grand that an unemployed person can claim for long-term - that is what the bill we are discussing now says - without having to deposit a home or anything else that he does not have, by mediating a third party, to give him a chance to develop an activity? And the simple thing I'm saying is that he doesn't want any thought or suggestion of services. The Minister of Labour, who is responsible for the social economy, for its promotion, is supposed to have a project in mind. As for micro-credits, which are for individual people, because they do not every single step, however small, they do not have the boldness, is it human struggling, is it human beings who become a group of three or five people and are formed into COMEPs, as already there are a thousand two hundred certified, completely legitimate, in the Ministry, in the Social Business Register, do we have to support them? That is the second question. Nor is it a spirit to say that in the English parliament there are questions which the ministers do not know and which come and answer on the basis of the question put at that time. So we cannot say that this party (,) was not in the original question. I think that there is a good response from the Ministry to include these people in the support of 800 euros, and at the same time the bill that is under way to amend and include the beneficiaries and social cooperatives, the women's cooperatives, the workers' cooperatives, the KOSPEs, which are doing a very important job. 7%, right now, of employment in Europe is one of these forms. In Greece we are still low, at 2% -3%, less than 2% -3%. We therefore have room to support these people taking the initiative and it will be a minimum aid from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be clear and specific about Mr Kegeroglu's question on the financing of these cooperative forms. Dear colleague, pursuant to No 16073/287/22-4-2020 joint decision of the Ministers for Economic and Social Affairs, as amended by number 18657/370/15-5-2020, active members of the workers' cooperatives of Law 4430/2016, registered in the General Register of Social and Solidarity Institutions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, whose business activity was suspended by a public authority order or seriously affected, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Ministry of Finance, received the special purpose compensation of EUR 800. Of these, those who received regular unemployment benefit or assistance, independently and independently of the employees of the ECAF, within the period from 1-1-2020 to 30-4-2020, were excluded. Those who have received, or will receive, the special-purpose compensation under No 12998/23-320 joint Ministerial Decision, those who have received or received the financial support referred to in Article 8 of the Legislative Act 20-320, as applicable to the free professionals and self-employed persons as defined in Article 2 of Law No4387/2016 and those who have received, or will receive, the financial aid, special-purpose compensation, No 16604/322/27-4-20 of the Joint Ministerial Decision. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Government is really doing everything in its power, since the beginning of the pandemic and the economic consequences it has had both in the economy and in the labour market. The government tried to open a protection shield for all workers, for businesses. I will repeat that at the heart of our policies it was and remains only one thing: the worker and the maintenance of jobs. Of course, in this effort, the extraordinary one, the only one, we made decisions at a speed of light, unprecedented, some areas of workers or certain areas of business have not been covered. But we are here as a government, we are constantly redesigning, we see weaknesses in the system, we see whether there are deficits in our interventions and we are ready every time to adapt our policy and also to cover any weaknesses or absence of the right and directed decisions in specific areas. We're not saying we're doing great. We say, however, that we are constantly fighting towards covering the entire Greek population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Minister. We move along with the second under number 818/15-2020 on the second question of the second question of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Signant proposals from the business operators in the Region of Crete to support work and business". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis. You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. In the previous period, there was a wide-ranging meeting of all business operators, intended to record the issues that remain open in relation to business support and, of course, to suggest how economic activities can be stimulated and to tackle the recession, of course, through support for business and labour. The measures which have been discussed and proposed have been very much codified in ten proposals, without meaning that there have been no others that I will not mention in my question. In particular, they proposed and requested: The immediate activation of a package of non-refundable financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises in affected sectors. Integration into the repayable advance II of all enterprises, irrespective of legal form and number of employees, while specifying the interest rate. Increase the amount available through TEIX II, as it has been known from the Institute for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, unfortunately 80% with 90% of applications are rejected. Accelerate the activation process for microfinance, which we have been discussing before. The bill is under way. Different implementation of the ‘SURE’ programme with job support and full-time jobs as a priority. Essentially addressing the problem of unpaid cheques with the creation of a financial instrument, so that the person who makes it take money to get it on time and who is to pay them to pay it according to his own possibilities. Establish the undisclosed business account in order to ensure a minimum amount of liquidity for enterprises. Reduction of taxes and application of a minimum tax scale for individual businesses and free traders from the year 2020, while reducing the advance payment of tax and the trade fee - it is a well-known issue - and reducing the reduction of the HNVY on the property of businesses in proportion to the reduction of rents. Accelerate evaluation and disbursement procedures for integrated projects, development laws, ESDPs and other programmes. Increase the level of aid from the de minimis, so that we can make effective use of this tool. So the question to the Minister - for which I inform him that I have addressed it, precisely to the Minister for Development and will answer it on Monday, because some issues are co-responsibility for economic and development, not all of the finances - are issues which have an absolute competence or are consonant with what the institutions of Crete have set for the financial support of entrepreneurship and the response of the recession. So what is there already being processed by the Ministry, or is it prepared to work out positions and accept the proposals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u38	Thank you to the honourable Member, Heraklion. I shall refer to what we have in mind, in the order you have set them. Unpaid advance. At the moment we have already given EUR 600 million. There is a serious interest, over forty-two thousand companies have already made a final submission and I think they will go to hundreds of thousands this time for the repayable advance. It is an extremely favourable measure. The fact that we can mobilise it is highly appreciated by businesses. I've talked a lot about business. It's not like it's a bad idea, it's a bad idea. Besides, if business finds itself in a very difficult position, a large part of the advance becomes non-refundable. Secondly, the inclusion in the repayable advance II of all enterprises, irrespective of legal form. We were in fact significantly expanding the scope of repayable II, including the individual companies that have a cash machine. Why are we doing this? Because returner II is a working capital. In order to have the working capital and make it important for the company either to have a worker - one, two, three, five - no employee business is excluded, regardless of form, or even if you are alone, you have no employees, you have a shop, an activity that requires to start again, you need some money. This is therefore the concept of this enlargement. Do not forget that as long as an scope is enlarged, the less the money, which goes to the end - because money is data - in businesses. We cannot, therefore, in the name of companies that do not have any workers and do not have a shop and are, in fact, free professionals - most of them - deprive the money from companies with employees and cause unemployment to rise, which will already be a very big problem in the coming months. We're going to the unpaid checks. A regulation was tabled last night that specifically covers tourist areas. I think it is a good regulation because it does not only cover the tourism sector, but also businesses in the tertiary sector that we will define by common ministerial decision and we are open to this debate, which have more than 50% of their turnover in the quarter of July, August, September. This will help very much to the islands, businesses that we had not thought about and no one had thought they would be seriously affected by tourism. These checks have been extended for seventy-five days. Also, the recipients of the cheques of these businesses, the bearers, because they too will be in trouble if the suspension is to take place - may be in the primary sector - and they also take corresponding suspension of their cheques. Let's go to the unconscious business account. As you know, there are already some provisions for the inconvenience, the EUR 1.250 for individual businesses and more generally, as well as the possibility of making special arrangements in the DU. And too many of the aid we are now giving is inappropriate. The returnee is a characteristic example here, and this will continue during the crisis. In other words, as far as the aid to be given by the State is concerned, our will is, of course, to examine it, as appropriate, to be inappropriate, for the reasons clearly mentioned by the companies. As far as tax reduction is concerned, you all know that we went from 22% to 9% for freelance professionals and that was a very serious reduction. But we won't talk about tax reductions at the moment in 2021. 2021 is another year, a year that we'll probably have some goals. It will be difficult, uncertain, basically because we will have to deal with a recovery, but we will not know the exact amount. We'll have a case, but it'll be hard to say. We also need to see when the European money that comes will be released, which will be very important, and how they will be promoted for next year's budget. We are therefore not talking at all about taxes in 2021. You will have noticed that almost nowhere we have any interventions that extend to 2021 at the moment. It's something we'll discuss in the budget. Finally, an increase in de minimis. The honourable Member knows - probably the people of the Chamber do not have a full picture - that de minimis is not our decision. We're one of the twenty-eight. There was a decision for a much larger de minimis in this crisis. We have been hit here very much by this regulation on the minimum funds that companies have to have, which has excluded too many from the new de minimis, which is higher - up to eight hundred thousand - of COVID. That is why many of our actions have double reasoning. We have the two-tier de minimis and the COVID de minimis. I'll finish with a little observation. I understand people. At the moment, they are specifically asking for money, because they are in a very difficult position. However, we must not forget that at the end of the day the money will be taken from the taxpayer. And the taxpayer is the same people, after all. In other words, the taxpayer is the employee who goes to buy in the supermarket and pays 24% VAT on some products. He is the small businessman, who, when he pays his taxes normally, contributes. He's the retired man, he's the civil servant. The taxpayer is us. We must therefore always weigh people's demands as part of the productive and social fabric and the 'ceppi', which in the end are the people who will be invited to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, they are completely different conditions in 2009 and 2020. Two crises in other circumstances. Large deficits, empty funds in 2009, surpluses, beasts, I would now say from overtaxation. You should be grateful to SYRIZA colleagues who, through the "blooded" surpluses, have enabled you to manage a significant percentage today. Therefore, overtaxation has taken precedence. Above all, we have a European Union that has responded in the best way. It has also facilitated the absorption of the ESRB and the creation of new tools, such as 'SURE', but also by facilitating a broad interpretation, if you like, of the regulations dealing with the rules. Furthermore, on every issue - since you mentioned the de minimis - they are open 'ears', to listen to requests and suggestions from Greece, if they are submitted, in order to facilitate the procedures. I do not think, in other words, that at this time we have the 2009 problem, which Europe did not even have a support mechanism. The opposite is true. So, in managing this crisis, even though it has global dimensions, as is then, the Greek Government has a dominant role. It has the tip, Europe, 32 billion since 2021 and then, large sums for today, financial instruments. There are no excuses, in my view. How effective the measures can be, of course, will also depend on the more general developments in Europe, since tourism is not an exclusive issue for the Greek Government. And there will be unforeseen factors in this, which we will appreciate along the way. But we need to see specific things. You said a concrete measure. You tabled the amendment yesterday, and you did well for the suspension of seventy-five days. And those who make them take, if they have checks, automatically join the same measure. What if they have loans, Minister? Did you forget? Therefore, all the obligations of those involved in this story should be suspended for the corresponding period. I have a mechanic who renovated in a hotel with a small technical company that has, got the cheques and pays loans. He cannot be set up by the banks on the wall, because we must also make it easier for the tourism sector. There's got to be care for him, too. As far as taxation is concerned, we are not talking about tax reductions, Minister. We say don't take them any more than they have to. I'm so sorry. The advance for this year, based on the rates in force in 2019, to tax it in 2020, given that we have a huge reduction in turnover, cannot be made with 100% or even a reduced rate, as you have the possibility of giving it with some law. It should be zero for the firms affected for this year's income tax and for those not affected to go to 50%. With regard to TEIX II, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, I have to say that, according to the Development Bank's communication, tens of eight thousand applications have been met. I have to say that the Guarantee Fund, known as 80% -20%, has a margin of 3.5 billion. He announced that he would give guarantees, and the demands would reach 16.5 billion. On the subject of the repayable advance, you were right to say that 580 million have already been committed and another billion of four hundred million have been provided. It must go at least three billion, Minister, now that it is early, because now it is necessary to drop the money, to have a shield in relation to the recession, to face up to this great danger, which will then lead to the need, if we are not faced with a deep recession, to give more unemployment benefits, more survival benefits, and to retrospectively take too many measures. Now, then, there is a strengthening of the measures. It is the most effective measure, because it is directly. No third parties are involved with the repayable advance. You know that. It's the most serious measure. Increase this amount and put a percentage in advance that is non-refundable. It is not possible for companies not to have this possibility in advance. Minister, I think that in the bill that we are discussing and which is your responsibility for micro-credits, you should immediately see what I discussed earlier with the Minister of Labour. They do not belong as beneficiaries of small business groups of social enterprises. For the three or five people who are in vulnerable groups, COMEP, KOSPE, workers' cooperatives, general cooperatives, where they gather three, five, they have one business idea, they have no guarantees, so they need micro-credits, they will be very useful. In the Ministry of Labour the register has a thousand two hundred, I think, certified social enterprises waiting for this regulation to join the micro-credit system. I'd ask you to see it. It's your ministry's responsibility, of course, to have the Ministry of Labour, but he hasn't gotten it. Mr. Brutsis made his signature wide, but he didn't get a hold of him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. It's interesting, but we got it. I left it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u42	I will be brief, Mr President. COMMUNICATIONS is indeed the responsibility of the Ministry, but not my competence. It's Mr. Zavu's.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u43	What about Mr. Stakoura?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u44	Yes, Stararas and Zavos have legislative powers. In relation to the advance. I have every reason to go as far as we can in advance business tax, but we will try - and this is my recommendation, as the Deputy Minister of Finance - to do so by approaching these enterprises and what has happened with them. Because at the moment, the important thing is no business that will be damaged - if possible, I do not know whether it will be possible to achieve this - not to be called upon to pay a tax advance for a year that will be damaged. Since, however, it is a very large amount, it is impossible for all companies to achieve this, that is to say, horizontally. We'll have to make it massive, but personalized. We should also see what we have been told. Because what we have been told about 2019 also plays a role to make the account. A little patience to measure first before we do the measure. However, the measure will go as far as possible with the financial resources. As far as the amount of money is concerned, we must not forget that the country has money and has debts. And the debt he has is much more than the money. My assessment is that the key is not the money we have in our fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u45	Imagine in 2009 that had a debt and had no money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u46	I get it. In 2009, then, I remind you that he had taken 35 billion at the beginning of the year, if I remember correctly, the then Minister for Economic Affairs and had money in the fund, but he had no confidence from there and beyond. Today we have kept trust. We got below 1.20% the last time I looked at the bond. So we have to go wisely, combining the needs of society and the citizens and the need to keep the trust of markets and the partners, because these two are interconnected. There, if we go and intervene in the issues of bank loans, I can assure you that we will have enough difficulties in making such a measure and great complexity in relation to Europe, the ECB and the entire system of institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u47	For the engineer, tell me. What can I tell him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u48	On the question of banks, the Ministry of Development will respond and I do not want to go into the debate because - short psalm - the Ministry will be here on Monday and will respond. Finally, I say that many people will not be able to respond, like mechanics, and we will not be able to solve all the problems. The point is that the job is short enough so that a engineer can get a next job and go further. It is not possible for the state alone to cover the entire extent of this recession.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u49	I told you about this financial instrument for these cases...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u50	My suggestion was that we need financial instruments, especially for the firms affected. But it has a serious difficulty all of this. On Monday you will discuss it with the Minister of Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u51	Just, Minister, because you say it very calmly, Mr. Kegeroglu asked something that makes sense and employs a lot of people, that man has money, he has checks in his hands. Here comes the government and takes the checks later, with state intervention, but he tells him the taxes, pay them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u52	The banks cannot intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u53	Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u54	Excuse me. He doesn't tell him the taxes, pay them, because we suspended him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u55	The loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u56	The funds have already been suspended. But be careful. Banks normally, as long as they have checks, they should have given him some space. We cannot come and force them to do what would be self-evident, since there is a credit rating. There is, however, a great difficulty in this and I do not want to go into detail.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u57	Good. You said that. Thank you both. Let's move on. The next three questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr. Kontozamanis. We will start the debate with the third under number 811/15-2020, a top-level question from the Member of Parliament's Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Lack of children in Ikaria and in the Forens". Mrs. Konnakka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in his recent visit to Samos, the Minister of Health said that islandity is very important for the country and that the islands should be supported, especially at such a difficult time that we can deal with, especially the remote island of Samos. Of course, such statements we have heard many times from all governments, but the reality that islanders experience is quite different. For the most part, at Ikaria, in a sensitive region of the Aegean, parents are facing a very serious health problem for their children, as in the end a lack of children is the regularity in Ikaria, as unfortunately many other islands do. So, just in May, a pediatrician and even an adjunct was hired, the second who serves at the hospital in Ikaria, who two pediatricians have in charge both of the islands of Ikaria and of the Forens, since no other pediatrician serves either at the Centre for Health of Eugenus or at the other Regional Physicians of Ikaria and the Forens. A few days after his appointment, by decision of the 2nd Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he moved to Samos to cover temporarily the shortage in the hospital, where since December 2018 he has also served a single pediatrician for the whole island, which, as known, has been hosting thousands of refugees in recent years. The result of this dramatic and permanent subsidization of public units is that the child population in Ikaria and the Fuhrus remain virtually uncovered, both for their permanent health needs and for the emergency, which could be a danger even to their own lives. For example, in Ikaria alone, in addition to the dozens of newborns, infants and infants, in primary and secondary schools, eight hundred and seventy children are in attendance, and the population is, of course, doubled this summer. The substitution of children, of course, by doctors in general medicine, which is common practice, cannot be a solution. This is a serious problem and it is the tip of the iceberg from the unacceptable state of public health on the island, as a result, of both the current and previous governments' policies, with reduced funding, the embargo literally on recruitment, cuts in public health benefits, increased recompense and payments to health services. So what measures will the government take to return to the Ikaria General Hospital the pediatrician who was moved to Samos. Of course, the number needed for the recruitment of children with a permanent employment relationship, full-time and full-time, in order to serve all public health units, both Samos and Ikaria, in order to meet all the needs of the children 24 hours a day. Of course, health centres should be developed, served with all necessary health and other staff, and equipped to provide full and free services of primary care for both children and the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u59	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakkas, we know the shortcomings and gaps and of course we are trying in every way to ensure the health needs of the islands. It is a fact that this effort is not always easy because we all know that, several times, the positions that are being proclaimed for either permanent or subsidiary staff are horrific because of a lack of interest. This is a timeless important issue that everyone has tried to deal with. We are even more trying to shape the conditions for sanitary structures in insular islands and remote areas to be eligible places of work for medical, nursing and other personnel. It is therefore necessary, before I get to the answer to your question, to revise the incentives given to both medical staff and other staff and where the greatest shortages are presented not only with financial incentives, but with incentives for professional development and any other measure that would make these destinations eligible. In addition to this, we consider the possibility of proclaiming positions in health centres of this type to the degree of caretaker I or director, in order to stimulate doctors to serve these structures. The islands of the northern Aegean are at the forefront of our priorities and for one reason above, because we are in a pandemic period, the tourist season begins, and we must ensure that the population of these regions is protected. Samos, Ikaria, Fournos, Chios, Limnos, Lesvos are islands whose health support needs are met whenever and when requested. Auxiliary doctors, nurses and other paramedical and auxiliary staff have significantly strengthened the structures of both primary health care and hospitals in these areas. Where shortcomings are observed which cannot be covered by ancillary staff or permanent recruitment, the health region shall move staff from urban structures. On the subject of the pediatrician in Ikaria, the island has two pediatricians for which we have taken care of, because I must remind you that last year he had no one. One of the two pediatricians for 15 days covers the island of Samos, because the pediatrician there is on sick leave, and on June 25, he will be back in his place in Ikaria. I also remind you that Samos covers with doctors of various specialties at regular intervals of Ikaria. Finally, on the occasion of your reference to primary health care, I would like to say: Returning to normality in the post-Koronian era is the stage in which we have been implemented by design. Soon we will see a new landscape in primary health care, the country changing, modernising, upgraded, more efficient, quality, always on the basis of universal and equal access to health services for every citizen. The health crisis in this period has highlighted the role of primary health care in the health system. We have knowledge, we have the experience, we have the tools, we know what to do, how to do it and we will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u61	Mrs Konnakka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Undersecretary, I didn't expect you to make it as an achievement that, while Ikaria had no children last year, she managed to have two. Of course, during the welcoming tactics, you have just been appointed - after how long - a second pediatrician in May you entered the process of moving him to meet Samos’ needs. I would point out that Samos has served a unique pediatrician since December 2018. For a year and a half, that is, he's forgotten about the day off, licenses, etc. He's on a permanent guard, actually. In fact, the particular pediatrician has moved from Samos ERIC, Center for Physics and Medical Rehabilitation, leaving a gap in such a sensitive health unit after the treatment of children with special needs and disabilities. Because you are presenting this as an emergency situation, in nothing you commit that this will never happen again in the next period that will probably still be necessary, it is human when a man serves himself on an entire island, need to fill a corresponding void. If, therefore, the gaps that exist in Samos are not covered at the same time, such tactics will often be presented throughout the summer months. And, because you spoke of the difficulties of choosing such positions on the islands, and unfortunately we still remember the corresponding answer that your predecessor had given to the Ministry Mr. Paulakis on a similar question that we asked him about last year's similar situation, ‘Where do I find them? May I give birth to them?"in order not to reach you in just as creative solutions, let us tell you that incentives must be given to choose a doctor to go to such difficult areas for sure. Among the incentives should be the simultaneous call for example in Samos and the three organic positions of the children because you will not start a doctor to go in advance knowing that going to a hospital that one alone will be able to get the basic rights on the day off and on the day off. Of course, you are doing much more to prevent doctors from choosing these areas when even the last statements by the Minister of Health that the islands will be shielded against the pandemic with such movements of doctors from one hospital to another or from one island to another. We're not talking about a few miles, we're talking about moving from island to island. A physician knowing that his appointment to such a position will mean every fifteen days, possibly, his moving to another island anything but motive is created. On the contrary, I would say that it is a given that it works as an anti-incentive. Also when no appointments are with permanent and stable jobs, they are with subsidiary, etc. You can understand that there are horrifying and dangerous deficiencies in all health establishments, especially during such a period of pandemic, and of course this only shows interest in the protection of insularity. Unfortunately, this situation is neither new nor extraordinary. Because you said that the needs of all the islands are met when they are asked for, there are plenty of examples. Especially in the Prefecture of Samos, they still have not forgotten the life of the nineteen-year-old child who was lost because there was an ambulance throughout the island that could not get from one village to another. Analogous to such incidents exist to this day. In the past few days, he was taken to the side of a rural patient without his senses at the Civilian Health Center because there was no ambulance. You can understand that, unfortunately, this is the daily life experienced by islanders and is justly apprehensible for what will happen if cases occur after the tourist season has been opened, of course, if that is the case. For example, the Minister spoke of 24-hour readiness for hospitals on the islands, but let's tell Ikaria, who committed four beds to operate in case of cases, there are no breathing beds, there is no pneumonologist specialty, not even a pneumonologist in the hospital. You understand that this situation is far from being shielded by the government's public health system. The list is long and the reality that islanders experience does not remind themselves of the readiness to deal with pandemic conditions, but is far from complete paradigm and of the basic needs of the inhabitants of the islands to shield their health and for full medical care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Konnakkas, I mentioned clearly in my protagonists about the motives to be given, which are not only economic, but have to do with professional development and working conditions in a hospital or a structure. Indeed, it makes no sense to proclaim a place in such a structure because the on-calls do not come out and all days and needs must be met. Yes, it is right to publish three or four places where there is a shortage. We have it in our programming, and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u65	When is this going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u66	I also told you that we will encourage doctors to go to these islands by announcing positions in the grade of curator I or director. I would also like to say once again that at this time the government has shown that it has adequately covered the needs of the health system both in material resources and in funding and in human resources. Let me remind you that while our initial programming was the two thousand subsidized recruits, the recruitments are now over five thousand. What needs are there and where there are, we cover them without calculating the cost of economics, first of all, in order to cover these areas health. I would also like to say this: we must all recognise the difficulty, which exists, in particular, and one of these is pediatrics, in order to cover them. So we could gloss and be good and proclaim all positions. The issue is to give the incentives for there to be doctors who will come and serve these positions so that they can be adequately paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Minister. We are now going to the fourth with number 802-12-6-2020 topical question from the Second Chamber of Deputies B2' West Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The Western Attica General Hospital of Attica”. Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, good morning. We are returning today to an issue we discussed here in this Chamber and recently I would say, as of January 2020, about the West Attica Hospital 'Aghia Barbara', the old Lomonts. The history of this hospital that has been operating since 1903 will not be repeated. We've said it before. We have also discussed this in this Chamber and in written questions. However, what I would like to begin with, Minister, is the minutes of the previous debate that you said in this Chamber in January 2020: 'We will strengthen the operation of external medical services with doctors of various specialties. We will strengthen the hepatic hospital, which also operates as a centre for the molecular diagnosis of hepatitis viral hepatitis and strengthen the laboratory sector.' Therefore, the redefinition of the role of the hospital "Agia Barbara" is within the direct objectives of the Ministry's and the Second Ministry's political leadership. Of course, Mr Minister, you will tell us that the COVID -19 epidemic has taken place. In fact, this hospital proved once again to be a fight and, of course, it met and helped in this direction. But, of course, we all agree that things should stop here, that we have no further deterioration - that is to say - of the pandemic. But this hospital today, having proved its usefulness in decades, and also in dealing with the specific health crisis, you must strengthen it to function as a hospital, because West Attica, West Athens and Piraeus need it because it concerns and serves around a million and a half people. We therefore need concrete measures to be taken at the moment and these are what we want from you today, a concrete proposal. I will not repeat the importance of the laboratories and the molecular diagnosis of hepatitis. I will not repeat the issue of the artificial kidney, which is marked, Minister, because the hospital since 2011, when you closed it - in 2012, the Minister of Health - is essentially interconnected with Nice and the artificial kidney is part of the pathology of Nice. And I ask you, Minister, how will the artificial kidney function safely when there is no cardiologist in the hospital when there is no anesthesiologist? In conclusion, I will also say about the hepatic hospital, which serves from all over Greece and patients who can count on both thousands. Minister, there was the connection to the hospital in Nice. The result is seven cardiologists in Nice having their organic location at the hospital of "Agia Varvaras", but also working in Nice. That's what's going on with 11 nurses. The wait in Nice can be five and six hours in the external medical professions and, on the other hand, we have an increased movement of about 25%. Therefore, this means that the hospital of "Agia Varvara" can function decisively in the health service of the inhabitants of western Athens, Attica and Piraeus still. Of course, with actions taken in the government of SYRIZA and with Law 4495, which you have finally used, most of the buildings in the area have been legalised, operating external medical services limited now, the NYPD of Nice has been transferred, dental and physiotherapy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. You were forced even late - I would say - because of the epidemic to proceed with repairs to the 1st pathological clinic so that it today has and has about fifty two beds. I'll speak in my dentistry. We simply want you to say, apart from wishing and intentions, as happened in January 2020, that you tell us specifically what you are planning for this hospital unit and how it will work as a hospital in secondary, then, health grade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, as you quite rightly pointed out, on 17 January in a question you tabled, we discussed the question of the operation of the West Attica Hospital 'Agia Varvara'. Today we are gradually returning to normality and continuing from where we stopped. The "Agia Varvara" played an important role in the management of the pandemic and its usefulness emerged. This enables us to move forward more quickly and more effectively in planning, which we are currently implementing. To be quite clear and accurate, I believe that we are interested in and prioritise the functioning of a strong and effective health structure, such as the hospital of "Agia Barbara", which will meet with sufficient and very targeted needs of the Western Attica. I will stress again, I will say again - we said this again in January - the need to highlight and strengthen the points that can be the comparative advantages of the hospital. You said it yourself. The artificial kidney unit, the use of the pathological clinic, the external doctors, the hepato-medical doctor, the dermatological doctor, which operates within the framework of the external medical offices are structures in the "Agia Barbara", which serve a lot of people and, of course, demonstrate the need for further reinforcement of these departments. As far as the artificial kidney is concerned, it needs to be fully developed. Today it serves thirty-nine patients on a daily basis in both shifts and our goal is to serve fifty-two patients at 8.00-19.00 hours, which will be achieved by developing both thirteen sessions and strengthening the department with medical and nursing staff. And in second phase we assess the further development of the unit, so that it reaches eighteen patients per shift. We amplify regular external doctors with different specialists, such as ophthalmology, obstetric gynecology, cardinology and otorinolangryngology, which are considered necessary in order to serve a large population of one and a half million inhabitants of the western Athens sector. There is, however, a great need that will be served by strengthening the functioning of regular external medical services, that of decongestion - you said - of the General Hospital of Nice, which can only enhance its daily function by significantly reducing patient expectation. I would like to add one more thing: the measures taken to ensure the amount of EUR 1.1 million from the Region of Attica, in order for the study pending and necessary for the development of the hospital to be completed within a short period of time, so that we can take the necessary interventions and building infrastructures that house both the pathological clinic and the surgical sector, which are the structures of the hospital that have suffered considerable damage and must be rebuilt. The role of the "Saint Barbara" is therefore a given one. We will strengthen this structure. It will be a reference point for the wider area, in order to provide health services, so that there is no congestion in the hospital in Nice and in the wider area - because it is also adjacent to the Attica hospital - and to provide health services so that people are not forced to come to hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u72	Minister, West Athens, the regions of Piraeus, even part of the west Attica, where about one and a half million people live, needs a hospital that serves its daily needs. We are mostly talking - not entirely - about poor peoples who need primary and secondary access to health. Whether a hospital operates since 2012 and with any structure - external medical facilities, etc. -, it's because local government - the largest party in the region - and the residents and the hospital workers have actually fought to operate. Minister, I am very sorry, but I read the January quote and what you told us today, I don't think it's very different. We've heard a greeting again. At the moment in the external medical services in general there is no gynecologist, there is no, ORL, surgeon, ophthalmologist, pediatrician, although some of these specialties - to be precise - only operate a few days a week. This is a very serious issue that you should have finished already. We are calling for the full functioning of the pathological clinic that was repaired after the moves made by the SYRIZA government by the law on the settlement of arbitrarily, with fifty two beds - I repeat. You have spoken of a sum committed by the region, which has been made to the former regional authority of Mrs Dures. We ask for it to be used immediately. The functioning of the hepatological clinic, too. Also in our proposals is to become an EKAB station and dismantle the "General State" - we know in Cholargos where the centre is - there is in this area to serve the wider region of Piraeus and western Athens, and of course, a health centre dedicated. But, Minister, because we have heard a question from a colleague from Lesvos about the islands again some wishes from the government 'we will do' and so on, how do you justify, Minister, that at present the only pathologist at the hospital for Tinos is left Monday for some time? This is your policy in tourism, which you say is ready for the islands to accept also tourists with medical staff etc.Huh? Instead of recruiting, in other words, you take from the existing structures that are problematic, to show a picture that some of the islands are being sanitaryly managed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall put this to you: we are in the digital age, Minister. Your Government - I never speak personally, I speak about the Government of New Democracy - is talking about the digital state, etc. Do you know that there is no digitization at the hospital in Agia Barbara? Do you know that this can also be consistent with the State and State revenues? What answers do you have for them? We expect specific commitments and timetables to be available in the secondary sector, because this is not the first time we have been discussing this issue in this Chamber. The inhabitants of western Athens, West Attica and the wider region, I told you even before Piraeus, want answers: Accessibility to health, primary and secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kafantaris, I don't have any pictures right now showing how we received the pathological clinic and how long this clinic was formed, operated and helped during the pandemic period. However, there are no grounds for disagreement, because I think that above - and we agree on what needs to be done and how the operation of the West Attica General Hospital needs to go ahead. Good operation is our priority. We are strengthening - and I have told you - with specific specialities both by moving staff from the hospital in Nice and by auxiliary staff. It is an important issue to operate an obstetrics - gynecological medicine, to have a masturbator to serve the needs of the large population. Yes, they are large - you said so too - the needs and the great population that this hospital covers. We have other proposals that will upgrade the hospital of "Agia Barbara", such as the operation of a specific pathological treatment and relief care for chronic patients in need of long-term hospitalization and for patients who will degrade the treatment, with emphasis on their functional rehabilitation, so that post-medical care is possible after or at home accommodation and care. Therefore, there is a concrete plan, which is being implemented every day. We will not leave the needs of the region uncovered. We will cover both the necessary financial resources and human resources the needs of this hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the fifth under number 817/15-2020 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Direct reopening of the Hospital of Romans of Thessaloniki. The expected second wave of krone puts us all before our responsibilities." Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the series of issues and issues that have highlighted and highlighted all Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - heavy and unhealthy, the inclusion of doctors, the permanentisation of all medical, paramedical, nursing, administrative staff - I have had the honour of proposing. You said, and after the grand course of the 16th month that arrived at the Ministry of Health where we met with the coordinating committee - as has been called the four thousand OAED programmes - that you will see to it that you do the best, the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. We're on our way to Lomont. I think that the common denominator, Mr Minister, Mr Contozamanis, is all of this common sense and sense of responsibility towards Greek citizens. I think that you are not a hostage, since you have the power of all the parties in this House to move forward and strengthen the National Health System, because it has become convinced to the Greek people that it really is an elbow. You are not hostage, like the Prime Minister, Mr. Samaras, so that he does not make the remodeling. You have full authority from the parties and Greek citizens to regenerate and strengthen the National Health System. I come to Lomamonon, what the then Minister for Health, Mr. Georgiadis, in 2013, closed. A jewelry, a jewelry for Thessaloniki, a hospital of 100 years old, compacted with accumulated experience and knowledge of fifty and fifty beds - a pediatric, pathological - with two hundred employees all the experience in treating infectious diseases such as COVID -19. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, this fell to the larvae, and it was not only the political will and the political initiative of Mr Georgiadis in 2013 to close it. It is your responsibility, as you have closed it then, to open it now to be an elbow, Minister. In the two and a half months that we and we, like all Greek citizens, were at home, the phone was ringing and the people from Thessaloniki told us where the intensive care units were at AHEPA and the "Huperarchy": "Where to go? Should I go to AHEPA? I have a little fever, I have a little cough. Where should I go?’ The primary health services were stripped. They said: "I'm ringing the private doctor and he's not picking it up. I don't want to go to AHEPA and "Panikolaou" so I won't get stuck. Where should I go?’ The need given. There's a second coronary wave coming. Thessaloniki's asking for it. Now open the Lomonds and in relation to the Commons, make use of the old 424, whose hotel, nursing equipment is very close - one is in Connitsis, the other is next to the University of Macedonia, in close proximity to the hospital of AHEPA, where they are reported - so that this space - all Thessalonians and all the north-easters know - is the place of concentration, reception, sorting and choice so that then, if necessary, doctors can send it to the respective intensive care units. It could be done and it is practical and realistic. As they said, they visited what was closed in 2013. I must tell you that in 2002 there had been a study. The hospital of the people there head of the pediatric clinics...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Triantafylides, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u78	I'll be right back, Mr. President. He fell victim - just to remind him, to have it in mind in his reply - in 2002, that there is no need for infectious diseases now! They were perfectly predictive and insightful. There are no more infectious diseases. And he came in 2004, with a Minister of Health Nikita Kaklamani of the government of Kostas Karamanlis and said another committee what is absolutely necessary. I have here: "The committee has been set up by authoritative teachers and scientists, who have decided that not only Lolomamonon is useful but also necessary and needs funding". That 2004.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Triantafylides, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u80	So he expects you to be heard by the whole of Thessaloniki through “Radio Thessaloniki”, say if you have the goal, if you have the political will to open the Limonon in relation to the old 424, to be the corner, the reception area of every citizen of Thessaloniki and northern Greece who will feel the symptoms, even in view of the fact that, as all experts say, the second wave of the krone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Triantafylides, you started your question, talking about heavy and unhealthy, about the four thousand OAED, which are issues that you could have solved, and we have inherited, and we are trying to give a solution. I have to admit, because he is indeed listening to us, as you say, all of Thessaloniki, that you are cleverly asking your question about the reopening of the former lomonon Hospital by linking it to the treatment of pandemic. So, what are you doing? You come and tell us that we need to create a new hospital unit from the beginning, because it has stopped since 2013 - you could open it in 2015 where you were government - which will be the coordination centre in Thessaloniki and in the wider northern Greece. It is a role that you very well did - and you said it yourself in your question - plays the AHEPA Hospital. Obviously, you don't understand the size difference between AHEPA and the Lombard and you come to tell us that Lombard can play a role in the coronary. Because you also referred to the AHEPA and the world that had to come even now in order to deal with possible coronary cases, you know very well that there were specific procedures - protocols to deal with suspected cases so that the citizen who comes into contact with another health need in a reference hospital with the suspected case. You probably have in mind the creation of a new AHEPA, which we all know is not possible. I think that you are raising issues which do not meet the citizens' real needs and are much more inapplicable. In 2013, I would remind you that there was the transfer of the clinics of the ex-Colimonous Thessaloniki, Pathology at the Papanikolaou Hospital and Paediatrics at the "Hippokratium" Hospital, and these two clinics strengthened both the "Papanikolaou" and the "Hippokratio" and the provision of health services to Thessaloniki. The transfer of these clinics was not accidental in these two hospitals. It was made on the basis of the plan aimed at providing the most qualitative and efficient services for paediatric patients and pathological patients. The inclusion of these clinics in the two major hospitals in Thessaloniki has enabled them to grow even more and to offer better services to these hospitals for all citizens. Since then, with your own government, from 2015 to 2019, I will repeat that you have not taken any action to reopen this hospital. I would like to tell you that primary health care has worked during the coronary period and, of course, because the alarm has not ended, it is ready at any time to face a possible outbreak of pandemic. As far as the infectious building is concerned, you know that there is a special regime, because it belongs to the Italian Government and we have a specific plan, in order to come to an agreement with the Italian Government and to be able to use this structure, but certainly not by building a large hospital unit, as you say. Our aim is, of course, to strengthen and organise primary health care further and, in particular, its services and with targeted recruitment of staff in skills where there are shortcomings. Thessaloniki, as the capital of the North and centre of the Balkans, has the health infrastructure that can support the necessary development of the North Greece's health map at health services level and offer even more and more quality health services to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u84	Minister, tell us - why is it, in essence, that, where we were owed to us, the ox - this is what hospital was closed in 2013 by Mr Georgiadis? Lomonton was fully ready and equipped in previous epidemics, SARS, pandemic flu, Neil West virus. That was primarily the beginning of the Western Nile epidemic at the Pathological Clinic. There were reference centres for various pathogens - microbiological laboratory - there there was a section trained in bioterrorism - the Olympics of Athens - where there was a specialization of non-radio physicians in ultrasoundography, there the importance of the hygiene of hands - Paediatric Clinical - where the chambers had antiseptic solutions and printed instructions for washing hands was first established. There they were successfully dealt with in the Limontons of Thessaloniki. That's what the government was shut down at that time. I do not expect you to apologize for what he has done, invoking the economic crisis. Successfully confronted epidemics, such as microbial meningitis, measles and coke, say experts. You're chasing us, why didn't we open the Enthusiasm? In Thessaloniki, we opened the Dermatological, opened the haunted Santorini Hospital, opened Lefkada in memorandum years. That's why I told you that where we were owed, they took the ox. It's not enough that Blonde and Paulakis, Paulakis and Blonde opened what you demolished and you know it very well. But my goal is not to separate ourselves. It's to join forces. I'm asking you. You don't answer me. You respond to the citizens of Thessaloniki, who have this concern for their health, their children, their relatives. Where will they be addressed if there is no reception area? No one asked you to convert Limonton to AHEPA Hospital. Nobody! And with regard to the four thousand you said, you know now, don't make me waste time, that the correlation "five pensions - an intake" that applied to the Memorandum Years of SYRIZA is not present today. Today you have the dynamics and we urge you to do four thousand recruitments. Give 1,000,000 euros, create the necessary infrastructure for the Lombard and the Paediatrics. And it seems to me that while I reminded you that the assessment of what Logon is doing was made by Nikitas Kaklamanis in 2004, you continue. And I give you the opportunity - but there must be the political will - to carry out a preliminary technical study in its current situation and for the old 424- that is why you did not answer it to me - where hotel equipment, beds and all the operation remains as it is. It hasn't been dehumidated. Why is that so? There are rumors - because at the time of the coronary they found the good opportunity to do business - but I hope, Mr. Kontozamanis, that you think it is not the time to rent an exact clinical round of AHEPA, say "Cyannes Cross", and to pay the Greek state "of Panagia eyes", when it has two rooms of Loméon. You booked it in 424. There was a successor space and building outside of Thessaloniki. It is in the center, in the heart, very close to each other, to re-establish a reception and sorting of the criticality and intensity of each coronary case in view of the second wave. Minister, do it! Thessaloniki's asking for it. Local government, the Church, the mayors, everyone. They are asking for it and claim it because there has been such a problem. And I want to finish by saying, since you said about the four thousand, that I walked with them from Mavili Square to the Department of Health. They gave me a blue mask they made at the time, two and a half months ago, which was unsuitable for masks. This is how his NSA nurses and four thousand doctors and paramedical staff love. They made masks in their homes and shared them with their colleagues who didn't. And what does it say here? "You love the NSA? Thirty-four thousand permanent." A blue one asked me to give you a green one. Both of them of course have orange color: “Do you love the ESS? Thirty-four thousand permanent." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u85	Yeah, they asked you to spare her, but you ruined her the way you caught her. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u86	Because I often meet representatives of the four thousand of OENGE could bring it to my office. Now I can't take her because you got her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u87	From Alexandra Hospital. I take her carefully from the side, from the tires.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Triantafylides, in my protology I was very clear. The former Politics Hospital has ceased to exist since 2013. You advertised the services he offered. And I imagine that from 2013 until now these services have not ceased to be provided to citizens by other structures. And I told you that the Hippocrates Hospital and the "Papanikolaou" Hospital were given the opportunity to strengthen by joining those of the two clinics, Pathology and Paediatrics and to upgrade the health services provided. I also told you that in the building that was housed, we are examining recovery scenarios, but not a new hospital, as you say. Indeed, there could be a primary health care structure. However, we must first overcome the matter with the Italian Government. You referred to the Santorini Hospital and the things you handed us over. Let me take this opportunity - thank you for addressing this issue again, we have answered it several times in this Chamber, because your fellow Members of the Staff Regulations have mentioned it - to say that you have handed us a hospital to Santorini where 30% of the posts of the medical staff had been covered and 85% of the posts of the other staff. What did you do? Instead of hiring doctors, you hired other staff. And what else did you do? And a global invention: You have implemented the remote dialysis because the hospital had an artificial kidney and the doctor was in Athens and was working the private center near the hospital. I would therefore like to say that in every way we improve the provision of health services. There is a plan to deal with any adverse development of the coronary pandemic. The health system, to a large extent in Greece, has stood and withstanded the pressure of the coronary period and we are not going to leave any of our fellow citizens without the necessary service they have at their disposal. And of course, we are always ready to ensure free, equal and effective access to health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. I'll have to tell you the two questions that won't be discussed. The first, with number 796/9-6-2020, top-circuit question, by Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Greek Government does not support the plan of the World Health Organisation (WHO) for universal and equal access to medicines and vaccines against a new coronary", which will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member. Similarly, there will be no discussion of the 6005/286/27-4-20 question and application for documents in the reporting and questions cycle under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure of the Radical Left coalition Mr Charalambous (Charis) Mamulaki, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Conventions for the development and concession of regional airports and resulting obligations under the current Krone epidemic conditions’. We are now moving on, in the first under number 799/11-6-2020, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, a topical question from Mr. Florins of the Radical Left Coalition (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Full absence of airport control and application of health protocols at airports, at risk of disseminating the koroni and with irreparable damage to tourism". The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I was expecting Mr Karamanlis not for another reason, but because he is his favorite topic when he hears about AD. In any case, I believe that you will answer me. The AAA, the Civil Aviation Authority, seems to have forgotten it. With the last PPA on 14 March, we see that airports have not been included in the control mechanisms in place, such as the Port Authority for ports, while it is the only national body with specialised and certified officials, which can do the corresponding checks - especially on a civilian aircraft for the maintenance and application of flight safety protocols. This is reflected in Article 1 of Law 4427 which the AAC has been designated as responsible for carrying out all kinds of inspections and for imposing sanctions in the field of Civil Aviation, which you are once again not actually applying. Due to your carelessness, the uninterrupted application of sanitary protocols in the direction of those issued by EASA - of course EASA gives directions - we see that it is very difficult, because who really expects to carry out these necessary checks, since the police cannot enter a foreign aircraft politician, but only on the ground? Apart from that, however, we have also studied the directives on airport protection measures. Nowhere is there any state control. If we're wrong, tell us where that really exists. On the contrary, we have read outrageous things to which I shall refer more to my denology. But I will set an example. The private service provider carrying passengers by bus from the airport building to the aircraft will check strictly that the bus capacity does not exceed 50%. I imagine you figure he'll also fine himself? There is a distorted system of control that is being shaped and, ultimately, we are very questioned that protocols can be implemented. This also affects tourism, of course, but also the seriousness of health effects. I therefore ask you, Minister, who will oversee the application of the health protocols at airports, if not the airport employees of the AAS and, ultimately, who the absence of these checks serves, recalling that the government and no private ones are responsible for what is going to happen. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] However, I will raise the question for the AP. What about the AP? It's been a year. It's still headless. We hear that the planned staff will shrink and move from regional airports to Athens, i.e. the system of Athens again. You are applauding a serious audit service for which the Minister told me and then to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency that he had been meeting with the head of EASA and said we would discuss it. Anyway! I'm going to say something in my denture, because I know what you're going to say, or I'm gonna have time to say it now. Look: The touch of what SYRIZA did with a photo layout, which was Mr. Lingerakos, is not like that. First of all, SYRIZA took a mess, established the APA, took out the presidential decrees, missing ministerial decisions and became a committee that approved this process for the appointment of governors, which was attended by the President of the Association and representatives of EASA of unknown prestige. You also made another known prestige and even laid down some criteria that I had pointed out, such as five years of experience in flights, which effectively prioritised the Air Force's soldiers. Anyway, it was a whole conversation. In any case, however, we are now without state control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, in my prototype, I shall refer above all to your first question, because very important things really need to be mentioned. I will start with an agreement with you that the airports do indeed have a very important role to play in respect of compliance with the measures and, indeed, as I will develop and prove to you, they do so in practice. So, at least, we can agree on this, and I think that also through the timely question procedure, the important role played by airports at all airports in the country, regardless of the operator operating the airport, i.e. whether it is a state airport, whether it is an airport granted to the FRAPORT or an international airport. The Civil Aviation Department, a colleague, has already worked since the beginning of the crisis with the EGE and specifically with the Travel Medicine Office, as of January 2020 and, of course, with the Ministry of Health in monitoring all developments, informing the local aviation authorities and providing timely guidance on aircraft crews and ground personnel. In fact, the procedures for the day-to-day control of compliance with the measures notified by the local aviation authorities were centralised. For example, to make it clear to the House as well as to those who are following us - how important the officials responsible for civil aviation were, as are the airports. The measures implemented had - among other things - the following responsibilities: Monitoring the plan for preparation and response for the new krone already in February 2020 of the EGE, in particular in Annexes 9, 10 and 11 and harmonisation of airport operating procedures, monitoring - respecting the guidance of the administration of the PSF by the airport operator, the groundhandling operators, airport security service providers and other airlines operating in the airport and noting that only the airport operator in question has access to and exercises supervisory functions - I think we can agree on it and do so - in the controlled area at the airport. At the airport responsible for the operation of the EAW, the airport, the airline, the service provider and all air transport-related entities shall be notified and coordinated by the EAW, the airline, the airline, the service provider and all the air carrier involved, an investigation into the location of the airport premises of the suspected coronary, an investigation and a search of data by the airline to identify the names of the passengers who travelled close to the location of a potential suspect, receipt from the ground-based service providers of the completed passenger information for COVID -19, an application check on the application of air travel restrictions. I am a little analytic, but it must be made clear that these tasks have actually been carried out. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I'll take some time from my dentistry, Mr. President. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the absence of State aid, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty) and Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. All these tasks are carried out and must be carried out on the basis of the existing legislation by the airports of the respective airlines. In addition, I can tell you, Madam President, that there is also a special section on the management of an emergency case of serious communicable diseases approved by the FMD, which are either in flight or at the airport. Likewise, there is a preliminary investigation of incidents within the airport, of course, in cooperation with the other co-operating authorities, carried out by airport officials at the airport. In addition, the airport employees of the local authorities are responsible for the application of airport rules. For example, in paragraph 6.44 of airport provision 1, even a provision concerning the imposition of a fine should a worker infringe this provision. So I would also like to say to the National Representation that it exercises all the responsibilities to be exercised by airports on the basis of the existing provisions. These are the directives they have received from the Civil Aviation Agency, and that is of course the directive and from the Ministry's political leadership. I therefore consider that no individual, no one who has competence under the current legislation, can take the actions that you have taken in your timely question. I close my prototype by saying that it follows from all of these that it is the airport officials who must in any case apply both the health protocols - I must be clear here - which the Ministry of Health applies, but of course the ones that are also the result of the EASA regulations. So under no circumstances can we allow anyone privately to embroider and take these actions which are exclusively the responsibility of public service operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Perka, you have the floor to hear what we have not heard in your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm really glad you recognize the role of airports. However, you don't answer me why they're not in the control mechanisms, because they weren't set in the MDG. It's an audit mechanism, it has inquiries. Like you said, it is. One is that. The other is the whole story with the shrinking of this staff. Of course, you didn't answer my question about the ADA. I'm guessing you're gonna answer the dentistry. It's too serious for us. It is an independent authority, it must do its part. We have promises. We must become a European country. The AOC of France of eight airports has two thousand three hundred employees, Italy of six hundred eighty-one employees, Switzerland of eight airports having thirty hundred employees, Ireland of nine hundred twenty-six employees. The four hundred eighty-seven organic positions of the ADP - which we have forty-two airports, seventy-two helmets, forty-one licensed landing fields - go to flights at the two-seven. There's a serious problem here. I am referring to the PPP, but also more generally, while recognising the importance of airport and state control, that is not what this is about. There's the substance. Here went the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection in Thessaloniki, provoked a meeting ahead of the pandemic on the measures to be taken with the "FRAPORT" and on the debriefing that some airports went to ask questions, said to them: "Children, I told "FRAPORT". Ask for information.’ There's a situation here. Of course, we do not say that there are any meetings with private operators within airports - it is true - but it is important that the state presence, the independent airport authority, is not involved. Now, in the text of the Directives, there is a vague increased staff of the groundhandling operator, so that the passenger is quickly served, delivered and received baggage, so that the time of stay is minimised. These sound very nice though they are in the EASA directions. Except EASA gives directions. You have never laid down rules on quantification of necessary staff, penalties for infringements, control bodies. You know, Minister, this is where the workers on the ground are listening. Furthermore, these directives do not state which of the airlines will monitor passenger information, cleaning, disinfection of airports and aircraft, and the availability of protection measures. We have some deficits. And I don't say it by chance, nor is my question by chance. I am telling you why there is also a concern in the field of airport services. We have said about their responsibilities. I'm glad you're at least admitting them. We agree on that. So I also expect the institutions and, in essence, the APA to be made, to strengthen the services of airports and institutions to gain the authority they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u96	Madam President, with regard to the airports, for which I think I have spoken very thoroughly in my prototype, and I think we agree that they have these tasks which they hold and perform in practice, if there is something institutional, such as, for example, a formal reference to a PPP or perhaps some kind of law, I am very positive to see it. However, I would like to tell you that, in any case, as far as those matters are concerned, on the basis of the existing legislation, as well as those of either the Civil Aviation Service or, of course, the Ministry, you realise that we are doing so in practice. But as far as the other issue is concerned, formal, institutional, I tell you that I am very positive. Now, as long as it is in ADA, it is indeed a matter that we have analysed many times in this Chamber. But it is good to repeat it, because it is worth seeing the course of this principle. I would remind you - and you probably know very well - that this principle was established by Law 4427/2016. In order to get the Presidential Decrees you mentioned, it has had to be two whole years. Of course, this was done on the previous SYRIZA government. So as to whether you have shown a heat as a whole as a government, I think it is shown by the fact that there have been too many delays. And because we have exercised public administration, I do not think it takes two years for a presidential decree to be issued. So the blockade was very specific. In addition, I would remind you that since 2015 and while the Deputy Commanders of the PSC had resigned, for almost four years the Civil Aviation Service had been operating without the two sub-commanders. So this is another indication of whether at least the previous government has shown a heat, I would say, on either the issue of the PSC or the PSC. I think that Minister Karamanlis has answered in detail both to your written question and to your oral question several times at the National Representation, whether in plenary or in committee, on this matter. However, I would like to inform you once again that as far as the establishment and further functioning of the AMP are concerned, we are currently in the final drafting of the bill, which will be tabled in Parliament in the coming weeks for discussion and vote. So I think this will be solved once and for all. And I want to believe that in the end we will, at least, be able to agree on the basic principles, irrespective of the number of workers who will ultimately be in the ADP. As far as the number is concerned, you have referred to a number of countries that actually have more employees in the AMP. However, I could say to you ten other countries, including Germany, a huge country with too many airports, which operate with about half the number of workers from what at least provided for the SYRIZA government's plan. So we think - and I want to be quite clear, and Mr Karamanlis has said so - that, because we are talking about a regulatory authority, this principle can function well and with a number of less than half of what was envisaged in the original plan. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I therefore think that this is something that, of course, we will have all the time to discuss, analyse and exchange arguments so that we can see where we can finally end up. In any case, this is the result of a detailed study carried out by both the Civil Aviation Service and the Ministry, and when the bill is submitted, I repeat in the next few weeks, we will have the opportunity within the National Representation to exchange arguments, to see where we can end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u97	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Now we move to the third with number 6077/30-4-2020 a question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Florinas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophyssis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'COVID -19 and airport management companies - a fact of force majeure or adverse event'. Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for two minutes, though and when you see me, you do it for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u98	I will try to be shorter, Mr President. So let's go to the next issue, which concerns air transport again. Here, then, we have this. It is well known - and we are all agreed on this - the blow that air transport has suffered, as are the airlines that are managing airports. And I am talking about the "FRAPORT" and the Athens International Airport, but also about the construction company of Heraklion airport, which have sent letters to the Ministry and have asked for the aid, deferral, extension of projects etc. We agree that this should at some point be seen and discussed and strengthened as far as possible. However, the first question arises as follows: For Athens International Airport, for the largest airport in the country, pandemic is a fact of force majeure, in accordance with the convention, which is also a contract for the development of the airport. Same goes for Castelli. However, for the 'FRAPORT' and for the fourteen regional airports it is an adverse event and, of course, the crisis for the twenty-three airports under the public eye is unnoticed. In other words, it must also give the Ministry an answer to this. Because there are concession contracts, not all concessionaires can be covered by a definition. So what is the government doing? That's what's known. Ignores contracts and we do MDGs. We are therefore giving the right to suspend payments to the 'FRAPORT' outside the concession agreement. The first very serious issue is that when the Greek State signs a concession, it must be observed literally. I would point out that the Greek State has not violated the convention. He didn't impose it on the airport management company. It was a fact. So if we look for the contract - and we searched it - we see that no article in the 'FRAFORT' concession does not cover this pandemic. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] I am now saying this: when we have over-profits, like in 2019, where we had a record of revenue, we do not share them. But when we have a crisis, does the Greek State have to finance the damage? If the concession had an argument in favour of it, that was the risk that the private investor assumes when doing the work or the service. So here, we see that this is not the case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is Article 45 of the 'FRAPORT', which should be sought at the end of the year. This was deferred for 2019, for the year she had over-profit and also gave bonuses to her executives. We believe that it is graceful, that it is not a concession contract that is very serious, and we also consider that it has no employment clause anywhere. We know that in this pandemic and the issue that arose with the airlines, the workers who paid for the damage were those companies. The airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" also sent letters. It also has a convention which provides for force majeure. In this contract, however, the Greek State had to respond within twenty-eight days if it accepted all the requests or agreed to negotiate them. This date expired on 22 April, which means that the Ministry has no intention of negotiating or returning to the contract. It will again make an ad hoc arrangement with "Eleftherios Venizelos". Listen! At a time when we have the argument that there should not be a culture of non-payments, from outside and outside, which we have contract suspensions, which we have workers and small and medium-sized enterprises who do not have access to borrowing, we have companies which have no employment clauses and are granted favourable conditions. So how is the health crisis legally characterised? Why are we ignoring the concessions, something very serious, and what about the twenty-three state airports, including Heraklion which is also funding the project in Kastelli, and that is quite serious? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u99	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u100	Madam President, I think we have long resolved the need in this House for airport concessions. I am saying this because I recall that the concessions proceeded - and of course very well - with the previous government on the SYRIZA government. The previous government therefore considered that "FRAPORT" is a reliable company which can manage a number of Greek airports for the benefit of both the Greek economy and tourism. Why do I have to stress in this Chamber that Greek tourism - where the main gateway to the visitors of our country is airports to a very large extent, about 70% - is a key pillar in terms of the country's economy. Indirectly and directly offers around 20% of GDP. So, you understand, we all realise that when we have an unprecedented crisis, an unprecedented pandemic, as the World Health Organisation has described - and I shall put it in the Minutes - the coronary is already 12-3-20, I think that there is no other debate on the need to support the whole of the country's air transport. I would like to stress once again that when we say air transport, obviously, we are not just talking about airlines, but of course we are talking about all the workers, about the 12 thousand who are a whole in the area, whether they are at the airports or the concessionaires, so I think at least we can agree on that. With regard to the second question to which you referred, for the twenty-three airports, which include - among other things - Heraklion Airport, I would remind you that all the costs are covered by the regular budget of the Civil Aviation Service, whether it relates to the remuneration of staff, or to the operational needs and costs of supply of goods and services. I think that through this process, the workers of these airports are, of course, supported and supported, where necessary, and, of course, the government has taken all the measures to ensure that no one stays without a social protection net. I should also like to point out that from the above airports, namely the twenty-three airports which are still under state control, the airport modernisation and development fees, the so-called TEAs and, of course, some of them are available to the Civil Aviation Service to strengthen both budget appropriations and other needs arising during the financial year. I shall refer to the other questions I imagine you want to raise, but I would like once again to say to the National Representation that this unprecedented coronary crisis of course has brought us precedents which were unprecedented for all of us, but I think we can at least agree that a critical sector for the country, which is the aviation sector, and I think that this has been done by the government in the past few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u102	Minister, of course, all sectors of the economy must be supported, I would say. The terms we're talking about. So I say that if you have a concession contract, you go with the articles of the concession contract. If you want to think it's something out of this, unprecedented, why don't we follow the examples of other countries, of America and other Europeans asking for shares when they make facilities for their companies to support them? It is known that ‘ALITALIA’, ‘AIR FRANCE’, ‘LUFTHANSA’, KLM. Trump himself, of course, said to support them, to provide either loans with public guarantees or warm money, but shares, to also control veto rights on the boards of directors, so that we do not have the phenomenon from one state money and the other bonuses on the executives. If this is the case, the debate must be held there, otherwise we can deal with it under the concession agreement. I think that's the right thing to do when we call a business risk. We have also seen it during the economic crisis. I had forgotten 'MOREA'. He got back somewhere at 11 million euros for backup. That is, eventually, as a state we must sit down and think about what these concessions have cost us. It is a good tool, but the terms of the contracts must be respected. I say this about the employment clause, because it has publications on the BLOOMBERG. "AIR FRANCE" says he plans eight thousand three hundred employees to take them off on a volunteer. The "FRAPORT", which is a company that has airports in St Petersburg, Turkey, Antalya, Frankfurt, all over the world, plans to cut down four thousand jobs. Now there is one topic: on the one hand we are overcoming the contract and we are giving warm money. On the other hand, we are suspending payments for the year 2019 that was over-profited, giving bonuses to executives and not - say - discussing it at the end of the year, for the period - because they have dates - that we had the crisis. Moreover, at the concessioned airports the main functions, a control tower, radio aid, airport controls, are provided free of charge by the employees of the Ministry of Defence and the AAS. In any case, I believe that this must be done more carefully, Minister, and we must respect the conventions. If something happens very much outside the contract, there is a solution, that with the shares, for as long as the crisis lasts - I will say - to guarantee the Greek State. In the meantime, the revenues of the ‘FRAPORT’ are maintained by the other airports. Mr Staikoras told us in the House that he gave it to the public, but the TAED did not give it. Yeah, but I repeat, the GOD is a public fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u103	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u104	Madam President, I will begin with your last abstention on the revenues of the 'FRAPORT'. I would like to inform the House that, in fact, despite the fact that there have been some difficulties for everyone, the 'FRAPORT' has carried out its obligations, on the basis of both the concession agreement and as regards 2019. As regards airport modernisation and development fees, already from 30-4-2010 it has submitted to the State’s account revenues for that year. So, as far as the financial year 2019 is concerned, for which you quite rightly said that it was a profit and that it did so, as far as the deposit was concerned, I think that at least it had been answered and I think there is no need to be any - in introductory terms -'skies' or 'grey zone' - that a company, which made profits last year, did not proceed with its obligations under the convention, because of the coronary. As far as 2020 is concerned, it is of course another year and we are dealing with it in the light of the circumstances. With regard to the question you raised in support of airports, you realise that each country is dealing with this issue - as far as the whole aviation sector is concerned - otherwise. Why have you mentioned some examples of other European countries or even America, but I would remind you that for example in France or the Netherlands, there the corresponding direct payments were a few dozen billion, which did not happen in our country. The aid to the air transport sector, as Mr Karamanlis has also developed in this Chamber, concerns a sector of about eleven to twelve thousand people, and even about half of the aid on the basis of the measures announced by the Government, it concerns workers' contributions up to December. It is therefore an effective proof that this government's main priority is not only the rescue of businesses, which we have already said in public, but the rescue of businesses means the rescue of jobs, it means the protection of workers. So I think we can at least agree on this, some measures - I would say almost all of them - were in the right direction. If there are any other things that can be solved, we are open to discussion. However, I repeat in an unprecedented situation, such as that of the coronary, in a situation where, of course, the primary part was health, but then, of course, it is also economically important, I think, at least there has been a practical proof from the Government of Aid for Workers and I think that so far there has been a success, which is, above all, a success for the workers themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u105	Thank you both. We continue and conclude with the second with number 808/15-6-2020 a top-level question of the first-round question of the MEP Laurel of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "What is the hundreds of fifty-seven properties of Larissa that were committed to the excess, and when will they be returned to the local society." The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that the Minister is coming to answer the question about the superstate. First positive sign. Because we will recall our memory back in history, and we will say that Mr. Chakalotos never came to answer questions, questions and timeliness, which the Change Movement had tabled in his day. But let's see what you're going to tell us, Minister. Because you know, today, you and I all meet with one aspect of history. Many times you know, history other than a glimpse judge at the same time can also be strict in its parts but also strangle many times. So today, as far as Mr Tsakalotos is concerned, I believe that his story has reserved him an irony, as he had signed this decision on 19-6-2018 in the FEK, and was published. So today, just two years later, we are talking here in the Chamber of Parliament, this issue of a shameful decision, which declared our country's fault in the worst and most unprecedented political way. On 19-6-2018, then, ten thousand tenths of nineteen real estates were found committed to the superstition. The superstition was a creation of the previous government of SYRIZA, of the "SYRIZANEL", which, of course, had nothing to do with TIADED, as many people are trying to blur the landscape today, because the TIADED as the Greek people now know and how much more so, it was just a fund that belonged to the Greek State, while, of course, the superstition was in the absolute control of the lenders and president of the supervisory board. Le Pape. These are to remember history, because history always teaches as you say and say. So in the Rast, from 2018 until today, and in the quiet that after the lenders said, we did - the lenders did not say so, we did so - a bomb of the Council of State, of Section IV, recently, came to reveal that neither the lenders said it nor we did it well as we did it as government. So what did Department say with the decisions of 929-934? That it was illegal for the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, and the decision was revealing. Because, Minister, what was stressed in the report was that while, on 19-6-2018, the property control, which was obliged to start in accordance with Article 19 beforehand - because there were also buildings that were virtually impossible - was launched a month later. So this showed how vigilant there was, how one night it was. And what was that decision? The half-page that I showed you - and I put it in the Minutes - and numbered Sanskrits in order to hide our subordination. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelia Likaulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What does a Greek citizen read when he wants to see what they are bound, for example, in my area of Larissa? Aren't those my properties too? The hundred and fifty-seven are not yours, mine, all Greeks and Greeks? So what does he read in Mr Tsakalotou's decision? Numbers, OCE, which have no explanation, do not correspond anywhere, no one can understand. And from the position of lawyer, I say to you, Mr. President and Minister, that by taking a sample check at the mortgages, at the Greek Stock Exchange, and where I could, I found out how difficult it is to identify these properties with which they are really in each area. However, I have managed to do so in my own area, at least in a large part. Finally, I say that the struggles of the Change Movement took place with its President, Phofi Gennamas, but also Mr Yiannis Koutsoukos, who I must remind him, because he took this case on him, but also many colleagues of the Change Movement, with questions, questions, and recently to you, Minister. You have come to this House to ask questions, but before the 'bomb' of the Council of State arrives. Now let me see, after the bomb, what you're going to do. And of course, now is the time when the road has opened, you can unleash them and deliver them. So, today, I ask you to give me the list, not the numbered Sanskrits of diligence, but to give me the hundreds of fifty-seven properties of Larissa, in name, which are what they are and what they correspond to every ECM, as well as to tell us what the New Democracy Government's plan is. Because SYRIZA ruled and was judged by history and by the Greek people. But you are now ruling. What are you going to do? How will you render them and what is your timeline, Minister, for them to come where they belong, to the Greek people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, in the timely question you have put, you have noted that the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance has avoided attending the House in order not to give answers to this issue in the context of parliamentary scrutiny. This practice belongs to the past. You know, as all Members know, that every Monday and Friday I am here to answer Members' topical questions, because that is what the rules of the parliamentary order require. In your question you raise the question of the transfer of fifty - seven real estates from Larissa to the EBRD. They are part of the tens of thousands of nineteen houses throughout the country, belonging to the Greek State and transferred to the EBRD in 2018, with a decision and signature of the then Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou. It was the result of the disastrous negotiation of the first half of 2015, which led to the freezing of the public property for ninety years, by the resolution of Law 4389/2016. The paradox, however, was that in the ten thousand nineteen real estates that were granted included archaeological sites, forest land, sanctuary and beaches, water habitats, but also NATURA areas, i.e. property that had to be clearly excluded. I have presented detailed information in response to the timely question put by your colleagues in the Change Movement, which was discussed some time ago in Parliament. I can also report to you the results of the audit carried out by the Treasury at ten thousand nineteen properties. According to this check, then, nine thousand nineteen OEMs have been identified as nine thousand seventy-six, or 90.7%. Unidentified ECMs amount to nine forty-three, ninety-three, nine,30%. Of the nine thousand per cent seventy-six properties identified as a large number of real estates, namely eight thousand thirty-nine KEK, 82.40 per cent of the total, fall under the exceptions of the transfer, i.e. archaeological sites, saints, NATURA regions, and all other categories excluded. In conclusion, of the nine thousand percent seventy-seven-six ECE, identified, eight nineteen, eight out of nine real estates, are covered by the transfer exemptions. Of the eight thousand thirty-nine ECE, which are covered by the exceptions, three thousand fourteen ECE have already been excluded, while the rest will be excluded within a short period of time. Of the ten thousand per cent nineteen EKE in the Ministry of Finance, two thousand and six hundred twenty-seven. With regard to the Occupied Territorial Responsibilities of the other public bodies, I stress that the identification and identification of them for the identification of the exceptions is carried out by the relevant Ministry, in accordance with the legislation governing its real estate. In my dentistry, I will answer for the hundred and fifty-seven ECE in the Larissa region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u109	Why not now, so that I can return?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u110	Can't you answer now, Minister? The Congressman asks and I give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u111	I'll tell you in my dentistry, Mr. President. That's the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u112	Minister, in turn, you hold it. Of course, whatever you want, but because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u113	Time is limiting me, my colleague. I couldn't help but talk about the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u114	We discussed this and this morning, and we said that it would be transferred to the Conference of Presidents, to see what we are going to do. Mrs Liikanouli has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u115	Minister, what you have given is very important. You've made it public. I read, it's the truth. But you have freshened our memory in a valuable way today. It is not just in terms of numbers, but also in terms of substance, that is to say what the figures correspond. One comment I would like to make first of all is that you tell us that from what most people have identified, 82.40%, it is excellent. It's the hayalitis zone, it's NATURA, it's areas of aquatic habitats, etc. That's why I'm saying it's "hot" the story. The story 'came down'. For when we hear, at least when we hear the Civic Opposition, in environmental matters, of course, that it is also possible to break down its 'eyes', saying that we should protect the environment, and so on, that only as a heinous shame can one hear it, after that information you have made public. But I will not dwell on it, because it is now known and we all like Jerusalem. Minister, you said something that raises a question for me. You said that the two thousand six hundred twenty-seven buildings belong to the Treasury. In other words, you have about one fifth. So four fifths belong to other ministries. However, if you have kept it for that purpose - I will not suspect that you have done so - to answer me that the fifty-seven properties of Larissa cannot be found or do not have them in the Ministry of Finance, then that will not be a government response, Minister, to exhaust my second language. Excuse me. I say it honestly, as I feel it. Because if for these numbered Sanskrits of subjugation, which I have tabled in the Minutes, a Greek citizen wants to find out what the 00308158243 corresponds to, and if you, the Minister of Finance tells him that 'I am not responsible for everything, you will go to the Ministry of Tourism, to the Ministry of Culture, to the Ministry of Culture and so on', it is like that your Government, Mr Minister, says, in a secret and unholy alliance, which I cannot understand from where it can come and which is true because, that you too do not want to make this information public. You're the Treasury. By decision of the Ministry of Finance these tens of thousands of nineteen properties, which you know correspond to five hundred twelve million square meters of Greek land. And that means something to Greece and the country. Alas, Minister, if we consider that your answer today is complete and complete, giving us your co-legislative ministries, so that we can discover, in a completely detective way, which is not appropriate to the Greek Parliament and the officials, where each property is in the various diaspora Ministries. We demand, we ask, but we have every legal right, Minister, to let us know. You are the responsible Ministry of the Overseas Body. You've got it all together. Command's all the time. You can judge as much as you want your predecessors as you do others. But you have to have the consistency of the administration. You're also in command. You're not just politicizing. So this act was the administrative act, it was a ministerial act, it was done by your Ministry and you ought to make the identified nine thousand and seventy-seven-six properties you have identified directly. Give us the list. Do we want to know in Larissa the hundred and fifty-seven real estates: Our theater? Our square? Our fire extinguisher? Our ports? The coastlines of our county? We want to know everything. We have a right, because they are ours and, above all, they are our children.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, as I said to you, everything started from the commitment of the entire public property to the superstate for ninety years, an agreement and a concession that no government would have come up with, an agreement that others have made, but unfortunately it is binding on the country. Any attempt to change the regulatory framework for the structure and functioning of the surplus fund shall be conditional on full recovery of the country's credibility. In this direction is the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. The Government reserves the right to raise at the appropriate time the question of renegotiation of the conditions relating to the creation and operation of the surplus fund. Appropriate time is associated with good preparation, with strong arguments, with proposals, but also with the ideal juncture, which will coincide with the upgrading of the country's image and reputation at international and European level. However, moves have been made in recent months, which have improved the operating framework of the surplus fund and at the same time safeguard the national and public interest. I mentioned them in detail during the debate on the current question of the Members of the Change Movement. As far as the majority of fifty-seven Occupied Territories of Larissa are concerned, the following data emerge from the audit. Twenty-seven KEKs have already been excluded, as they fall under the exceptions, i.e. they are archaeological sites, NATURA areas, forest areas, saints or beaches. Ninety ECE are currently being processed, with initial indications showing that they are also on their way to an exception and that the relevant finalisation remains. For the rest, the audit procedure is pending. With regard to which exactly the hundred and fifty-seven OEMs are, since they are recorded under a real estate number code, their identification is easy and clear and can be done by anyone, according to the unique identification number of each property. The properties of Larissa are included in a list of ten thousand ten thousand nineteen houses, among the order numbers eight thousand five hundred forty - one to eight thousand nine hundred ninety - seven. Regarding the decisions of the Council of State on the appeals of municipalities against the decision of the Minister of Finance to transfer ten thousand tens of tens of Nineteen Kappa of the Greek State to the EBRD, these have not reached our Ministry. Therefore, since we do not know the reasoning of these decisions, I cannot give you an answer about the context of our next moves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u118	The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-19-S1-commons.u119	With the agreement of the House at 11.47 p.m. the sitting on Monday, 22 June 2020, at 17.00, on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) the debate on topical and urgent questions; b) the debate on Question No 20/10/4-5-2020, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
