ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 3-11-2020, the minutes of the KC's meeting were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Tuesday 3 November 2020 with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Strengthening the Arrangement of Cultural Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Tourism (hereafter the Ministry of Culture and Sport) of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Culture and Heritage of New Zealand". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Following the Culture Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro". 3. Single debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: 'Undertaking of the Council of Europe Convention on Crimes affecting Cultural Goods and Implementing Provisions'. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report on Friday 6 November 2020. Time of the Prime Minister (Articles 129(2) and 3, 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 115/1/2-11-2020 topical question by the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Alexis Tsipras to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "The Government, without a plan to strengthen urban transport, lets citizens conspirate in public transport (SMEs) in the middle of the second wave of pandemic." A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 105/30-10-2020 by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in the submission of the findings of a special committee on the administrative investigation of disciplinary misconduct by EL.AS' staff". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 110/2-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Airway express connection until the completion of the extension of Line 2 of the metro to Petroupolis, Ilion and Cameroon". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 114/2-11-2020 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The police force is now attacking the core of the family." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: The question, under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Questions Nos 14/5-10-2020, 16/5-10-2020 and 19/5-10-2020 questions in the circle of petitions - Questions, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Mavroudi Voridis. The Question No 109-22-11-20 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Vlassi. The 119/2-11-2020 topical question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. Following this, we enter the debate of the second under number 119/2-11-2020 on the first-round question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The permanentisation of all auxiliary workers in the welfare centres". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou. Mr. Stoltides, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u3	Madam President, can we start with my question?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, I would like your permission to answer Mr Theodorikos' question first because he has to leave. He's got an emergency job. Do you accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u5	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much. So we move on to the first under number 103/30-10-2020 in the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of the Interior, on 'Decision of the Council of State on the 'big walk'. Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos will answer the question. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, this is a well-known matter. It concerns the 'big walk'. A lot has been written. Thousands of fellow Athenians have been afflicted. As you are aware, on 21 May you and other ministers have issued a KLA, which has come to the Council of State. This FLAG had pierced - let me express it - on the basis of the legislative acts of 25 February and 20 March, which came out to combat the restrictions of the pandemic. Now, what was involved in limiting the pandemic, the emergency measures, in other words, the traffic regulations, which have exacerbated the problems of our fellow citizens in those days, have not been able to explain it. That is why the Council of State has come and said that these are two unrelated issues. It is absolutely irrelevant that the content of the KYA, on which the Municipality of Athens was based, was exploited by the Municipality of Athens - I do not know if there was any understanding, of some kind of comparability and to whom you wanted to make backs - first to go ahead with his grand work, which is crumbling at the moment, the rusted zardiniers, the fruit plants, all that created a turbulence. Secondly, in order to proceed with a direct assignment of 2 million, in our days when municipalities are called upon to make huge expenses. You know that very well as the Minister of the Interior. These are costs, which have to do with pandemic, with vulnerable groups. And we're coming over here to fly 2 million, associating this case with something completely irrelevant, critical. It may be that some felt that “the wolf is rejoicing on the bulwark.” So the Council of State is coming to you. I do not know if you have walked the 'big walk'. The University passes outside the Council of State. This, obviously, had not been calculated by the initiators of this case. So, what do you intend to do to comply with the content of the decision and to see the legality of this 2 million expenditure as Minister? What exactly is it? Is it just a mistake? Did the case of the 'big walk' succeed a little - as the Mayor, Mr Bakoyannis, said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u9	Good day, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me thank the Member of the Communist Party and my colleague Mrs Michailidou for proposing my questions, as well as the colleague who asked the question, Mr Skourletis, because I have an important obligation in the context of my duties at the Ministry of the Interior. As far as this question is concerned, Mr Skourletis, as Minister of the Interior, who has been in the past, in the previous government, you are very well aware that the Ministry of Home Affairs has to respect the administrative autonomy of the local government bodies, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, and which - I can add - the specific leadership of the Ministry of Interior and the current government has shown that it is interested in upgrading and strengthening institutionally and with great reform, which concerns the financial autonomy of the local government bodies. So every act by a local government is clear that it is not controlled for its purpose by the Government and the Ministry of Interior. The sole person, under law, responsible for verifying the legality of the acts of self-government is the coordinator of the decentralised administration, a State official, who has to carry out the relevant checks. This is about the framework within which we move. As far as these facts are concerned, you know that on May 11, the City Council of Athens decided to impose temporary traffic measures and regulations at the center. Indeed, then a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Civil Protection, Health, Interior and Transport made a number of interim arrangements to deal with the issue of the coronary. Then there has been a decision of the Economic Commission of the Municipality of Athens on a negotiation procedure for the relevant supplies. I know - as far as I have been informed by the Municipality of Athens - that the contract was checked before it went ahead with the Court of Auditors. There has also been the decision of the Council of State which annuls the joint ministerial decision of the four Ministers, on grounds relating to the legislative power to adopt the relevant legislative act and not on grounds relating to the feasibility or not of the specific project. I would like to say very clearly, Mr Skourletis, that on behalf of the government there is absolutely no intention of a legislative initiative covering the formal deficit in question. The decision of the Council of State is absolutely respected. Therefore, the Municipality of Athens should decide whether or not to proceed with the implementation of this programme, to what extent, in compliance with all the public accounting rules provided for by the general legislation. As far as this section is concerned, therefore, I would refer you to the Municipality of Athens, who, as you know, - and I said before - has complete administrative and financial autonomy for further legal and political management of the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u11	I understand from your answer, Minister, that you are trying to separate your position, and I would just say 'to do it with light jumpers'. But be careful. The KYA, which, as exclusive content, had the "great walk" case, sign it. So you knew the purpose of this joint ministerial decision and how the mayor would use it. There you come now, afterward, and you speak as Pontius Pilate in the name of selfishness of the municipalities. Of course, the selfishness of the municipalities, respect it. In particular, however, you have brought and passed a law here which actually dynamises the autonomous democratic processes of the OTAs by giving decisive powers to the Economic Commission and by taking them from the relevant municipal councils. Or isn't it? You also know very well that orders within the Municipality of Athens have voted against this decision and have appealed to the competent Public Procurement Control Authority. And you come here and say there's nothing wrong. No harm, no cat. Oh, no! You've got it. You knew. You knew very well! So in the name of - I repeat - a difficult situation, unprecedented, which has brought Greek society together - the issue of the health crisis on the occasion of COVID - you, with your signature and other ministers, made it easier for the Mayor to do something that he thought had not happened at all, fell a little outside. What studies were there? None. And here we are talking about a leading intervention, which has to do with the recovery of public space, necessary for a city, for a capital like Athens. But nothing happened for the sake of communication. And here, of course, you are in solidarity with Mr Bakoyannis. Because that's how you work on all matters as government. Your answer is unsatisfactory, Minister. You have responsibilities. And I'll repeat something I told you in my first speech. At the moment, the municipalities throughout Greece are lacking revenue, because the focus is being closed, and obviously, there should be care not to pay off the closed companies, because there is a need to support vulnerable groups. You know all that very well. So, can some people throw away public money from here and there? Is it not an issue, then, and a necessity for you to communicate with decentralised administration? You are the head of decentralised administration, based on its relative autonomy, as defined by today's Constitution. Will you therefore ask the relevant manager of the decentralised administration to look at exactly what is now happening with the legality of that expenditure, or all these are questions concerning some 'experienced' citizens who have rightly resorted to the Council of State? I would therefore expect you to be clearer, more specific and to commit exactly what you are going to do in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Skourletis, it is obvious that there is a very important difference between us. You, as Minister of the Interior, have made sure that you dismantle local government, applying the simple analogy and forbidding mayors who were elected by more than 50% of course to have a majority in municipal councils. This mistake came to you and we corrected, in order to be able to function, to be structured and to upgrade local government and grade 1 and grade 2. We believe in the self-sufficiency of self-government, we believe in its strong institutional role and its social and development interventions. If you do a round around the country and talk to all mayors, they will tell you that this leadership of the Ministry of Interior does not make any distinction as to where any mayor belongs politically. It has no value for me that Mr Bakoyannis belongs to the area of the government's New Democracy. My attitude and behaviour is similar to all mayors, regardless of their political identity. And because that's a full-fledged truth, that's what you're gonna have to put aside. I repeat, however, that the Government does not intend to take any legislative initiative to change anything concerning the decision of the Council of State, because it respects it. As far as the substance of things is concerned, it is the responsibility of the Municipality of Athens and its institutions to make the right decisions about what they want to do about the subject of the "big walk". That should be respected. Everyone should judge and assess the decisions of the government. As far as matters relating to the legality of decisions are concerned, I have explained that this decision of the Municipality of Athens was approved by the Court of Auditors. From there on, any other research on legality must be carried out by the coordinator of decentralised administration and by anyone else. All of these are truths and realities, which do not raise any objections. I think it is extremely disgraceful to insist on opposition to the government on a matter in which it is crystal clear and crystallised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Next is the fourth question with No 55/10-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Individual companies are excluded, but also new businesses from regional aid'. Mr Kegeroglou's question will also be answered by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the question was tabled as soon as the programmes of the regions have been published to assist small and medium-sized enterprises affected by COVID. This aid with the non-refundable grant, as provided for by the NRP, is very important because, in fact, the free traders, micro-enterprises are most affected and unable to cope. That would be a boost to their liquidity and ability to survive. However, the programme has had three problems. The first problem was that it concerned only companies with a number of employees, except professionals and micro-enterprises, self-employed entrepreneurs. The second problem was that it did not include young entrepreneurs, new businesses from 1-1-2020 onwards. The third problem was that it did not have a grouping and quota of enterprises on a similar basis, so that they did not get all the money for specific enterprises that complemented more moleculosis. On this basis, we have tabled the question in order to contribute to the review and amendment of it, so that small entrepreneurship as a whole can rely on it. Unfortunately, this has not been done and the invitation has already come out. Our question is: Did the Government, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Interior coordinate in this process or was there just a copy, as the Ministry of Development tells us, of the invitation of central Macedonia? The second question is: What was the position of the representatives of the Ministry of Interior in the monitoring committee, which approved the content of these invitations and actions in all the regions of the country? Why are we talking about this? Because we point out - and I close with this - the need, in this difficult period, first of all to consult and coordinate at government level and then, of course, to consult the Ministry of the Interior, which is the heads of the regions, to ensure that the sectoral policies implemented at regional level with the respective ministries are in a context of complete and, of course, not fragmentary, by copying calls from one region to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, Mr Kegeroglu, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why you have put this question to the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Kegeroglu, for which we have replied in writing that the Ministry of the Interior is irresponsible. First of all, I think that we all share and have a huge interest in small businesses, especially those with no employees. There is no doubt about that. But the programmes, Mr Kegeroglou, come from the Ministry of Development, which has given you an integrated answer through the State Secretary responsible, Mr Tsakiri. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. It is the answer that the government has given to the substance of the matter. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As you know, the Ministry of Interior is responsible for the regulatory framework for the Government agencies. The regions are not employees of the Ministry of Interior and the regions are working with all the Ministries on the basis of sectoral policies for which each Ministry is responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. The Ministry of Development, therefore, through the General Secretariat and Mr Skalkos, gives a detailed answer and explains why the confusion has been made. I would like to explain to the regions the invitation it issued, prepared, the Region of Central Macedonia, and on this basis the invitations to the whole country came out. So Mr. Skalkos comes next and what does he say? That each region could include professionals and self-employed entrepreneurs, each region could include from 1-1-2020 the companies that were first established, the region could have set a quota according to the category, so that they do not take the money into a category of companies. And the Ministry of Development said that, when in the previous days, in the Chamber, Mr Georgiadis had a strong controversy with a representative of SYRIZA who claimed the paternity of the programme, and said Georgiadis: "No, it is mine" and the others said: "No, it is our proposal." Look, the essence is that there was no framework for cooperation and coordination so that the regions could also be able to know, firstly, that this programme could be complete and not exclude professionals and self-employed persons. Unfortunately, there was no consultation. Where is the Ministry of Interior involved now? Here's the problem now. If you do not understand that the government and the Ministry of Interior have absolute competence, here is the problem. First of all, you have the regulatory framework, and as far as the regions and municipalities are concerned, it is the Ministry of the Interior as top supervisors supervised by the government. They're not the other ministries. In this respect, however, you have three representatives in the programme monitoring committee. You have three representatives in the operational programme of the regions, that is to say, each TGI participates three representatives from the sector of the NSRF, from the NSRF of the Ministry of Interior, the NSRF of the Ministry of Administrative Reform which has also joined you, the Secretariat-General for Equality and other representatives. I now tell you the three keys that have a central report. So what would anyone expect? Because of the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior with regard to the regions and the thematic competence of the Ministry of Development, there has been a cooperation between the two ministries in order to give them the full range of information to be given to the regions to implement this programme and to choose through it and not simply to send them the wrong invitation from central Macedonia, which is wrong with regard to the exclusion of these and the quota to which I have just referred. Regardless of the fact that the Ministry of Development had to respond to you, I also activate you to go to development and tell him that there must be cooperation and coordination here. Every thematic ministry is obliged through the Ministry of Interior to cooperate with the regions and local authorities and decisions are always joint ministerial. I am well aware of this, there is no Ministerial Decision of a Ministry other than the Interior concerning municipalities or regions and not a CFO, but this is not the case. So there is an absolute conspiracy. The question is: After this invitation, even at this stage, will you address the Ministry of Development and with the expression of simple concern as the Minister of the Interior, to see the possibilities of a new supplementary notice, because it is obviously not possible to overturn the one that has gone ahead, which restores the injustices of the first in relation to the professionals, the self-employed, the new businesses and small and medium-sized ones, so that we can achieve the target by a second series of invitations from all regions and if there is, of course, such funding from the central ESDP to the regions? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u20	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I have listened very carefully to what you are saying. We must monitor a little the order of things and the responsibilities of the ministries over the years. Let's get something straight. The Ministry of Interior has the regulatory framework concerning the action and operation of the local authorities. The issue of development policy in the section on support for enterprises, small, medium-sized enterprises, etc., is the responsibility and responsibility of the Ministry of Development, which has given you an integrated answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u22	It rats at you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u23	Wait a minute, sir. Have a seat and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u24	He's nailing you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u25	You're wrong, sir. You have a line because you're trying to get out of other deadlocks you've got, trying to find out coordination problems in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u26	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u27	You'll learn to listen, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u28	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u29	Not as a communist, but as an Interior Minister, say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u30	So many years you've been in here...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u31	Let the Minister answer as he wants. Please, Mr. Comrade! Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u32	Mr Kegeroglu, the democratic function, even this one, must learn to respect it even for so many years in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u33	Answer as Minister not as a communicationist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u34	When you stop interrupting me, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u35	I'm not interrupting you. I'm interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Colleague, please. Let the Minister answer the way he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u37	I'm with a closed microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u38	Have you finished, Mr. Kegeroglu, your trespass?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u39	What if I'm done?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u40	Minister, please answer Mr. Kegeroglu very much. Mr. Colleague, we're not having a conversation. The Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u41	That's exactly what I'm saying. As a minister and not as a communicationist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Comrade, he can answer the way he wants. If it does not satisfy you, that is another matter. Please. Please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kegeroglu, it is known that in any way I answer you, that one and one do two, if I tell you, for you it doesn't make two. Understood? Because your work today...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u44	It's from previous tapes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u45	Mr Colleague, please, the procedure must continue. Minister, don't ever go again. Keep answering your answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u46	Madam President, it is a very bad example for a Member or a Minister and his colleague to do what Mr Kegeroglu does. I'm sorry, Madam President. It's not serious. We are seen by the citizens and they despise the democracy and the basic credibility that each individual must have personally and every party collectively. Let's find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u47	Minister, the observation from the Ministry was made to the MP.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u48	So let Mr. Kegerglou know that he will listen to the views he disagrees with. It is his fundamental obligation to democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u49	But you don't say any opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, it goes on. Mr. Kegeroglu, take it from the top. One and one are two. Can we agree on that? Can you assimilate this, please? One and one are two. Which means, Mr. Kegeroglu, and I repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u51	Minister, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u52	You're welcome, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u53	The Bureau has made the relevant remarks. I would therefore ask you, as Minister, to answer the question you have asked in the way you want to continue the process and I will not tolerate any interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much for not accepting any interruption at all, Madam President. Mr. Kegeroglu, things are very simple and reasonable. The Ministry of Interior has the responsibility of the regulatory framework for the functioning of the TAs, this is our responsibility, it is not our responsibility to be the heads of the regions, nor to impose policies on them, because it is an independent institution of self-government, the second degree of selfgovernment. However, I have already discussed with the President of HNPE on this issue, but all the issues concern the decisions of the regions and the programmes of the Ministry of Development, which has given you a comprehensive written answer that you should have assimilated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the second topical question under number 119/2-11-2020 first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The permanentisation of all workers in the welfare centres". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna Michailidou, will answer. Mr Colleague, you have the floor and I thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the welfare centres supervised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs work continuously, without any gap, ancillary contractors of various specialities who cover tragic gaps in permanent staff, fixed and continuous needs, neural positions to protect the lives of the most vulnerable groups of the population. All these years, the three hundred workers have been working with the stress of the expiry date. Some are unpaid for months by extension. They call for permanent and stable work, for their contracts to be converted into an indefinite period of time. In the midst of a pandemic they heard official thanks and applauded and became a shield of these people's lives. The Ministry of Labour for the welfare centres that supervises increases the protection measures, but with visit bans, thermometers and at the same time fires personnel who protect the health and life of these people, the staff who do these measures. With the 2019 S.A.S.A. 7K notice, a large part of the assistants in the welfare centers stays outside the lists hired after so many years of work, since they have not been asked for any supporting documents. In accordance with the last extension of their contracts in Article 62 of Law 4701/2020, their contracts expire with the adoption of the results of 7K of 2019 and not beyond 31/12/2020. The ADP programming provides for the issue of results for the secondary education category within the next few days and the rest possibly by the end of 2020. Therefore, from day to day, workers who are not in the provisional tables will be fired. You ask yourself, Minister, how you will extend the validity of the supplementary contracts of the welfare centres and what time you intend to convert the contracts of this staff into an indefinite period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u57	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for your concern - the truth is a very important issue, especially in the context of the pandemic and the threat it poses to our vulnerable fellow citizens. Adequate staffing of welfare centres across the country has been an excellent priority not only in the first wave of the pandemic, but since the beginning of our duties, since we took office as government in July 2019. Since last August we have been mobilised as a Ministry and proceeded to the notice of the ASP, for which you are asking me today, on 7K of 2019. At the start of the health crisis, however, in March last year we took without delay additional measures to staff multipliers for both workers and the beneficiaries, the guests of the welfare units throughout the country. At that time, while starting in our country the first wave of pandemic, as you rightly said, the invitation to tender was in progress on the basis of 7K for the recruitment of three hundred and seventeen permanent staff, plus twenty-four, following special procedures. This procedure was initiated - I must say - by the previous government which had legislated to recruit the three hundred and seventy-seven people in the welfare centres. However, there was no procedure and we could not in any case expect that without our own intervention it could be completed on time. We therefore did not have the luxury of this waiting, and that is why we had to act immediately. After implementing a legislative act on 16 March 2020, by common ministerial decision, we proceeded with the establishment of an immediate procedure for the recruitment of subsidiary staff to address the exceptional needs that the pandemic had brought to the social and welfare structures throughout the country. What did we do? We hired five hundred auxiliary staff to deal with the emergency needs of the pandemic. However, I would like to draw your attention to this, Mr Stoltides, because I have heard you say that we are increasing the measures and reducing - in fact, you have said that we are fired - the workers. We're doing exactly the opposite. In the part that we are increasing the measures, yes, we have increased the measures. At the moment, our welfare state has the strictest measures throughout Europe. On the other hand, the welfare state and its public structures can be assured that they currently have the highest staffing potential in the last decade. And that's because, with the last five hundred recruits we've made within three weeks, we've managed and increased its capacity by one/3, by 30%. And how's that? In three weeks' time, we signed and signed the joint ministerial decisions, opened the tenders, ran our competitions and five hundred fellow citizens, experts in the protection of vulnerable social groups are already in these structures since April and work hard to protect the most vulnerable. Who are they? They are doctors, they are nurses, they are carers, they are bankers, they are social workers, which help to protect the most vulnerable, and for the first time we have an increase of 1/3 of the staffing of these structures. And I will say something else - and I will close with that - which I think you may at first disagree, but in the light of these circumstances, I think I will find you in agreement. For this purpose, we had originally anticipated resources from the national budget. But what did we do? In time, we have managed and secured financial European resources. I am aware of your positions and positions on the European institutions, but I think that, given the circumstances, we will all agree together that no opportunity should go unexploited, hence we have ensured six months for this staff with European resources and we have been able to ensure six more months, that is, by 21 March, that we have this increased 30% staffing potential in our prosperous structures, which host our most vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you have not responded. It is almost practical to not be able to judge your answer on the basis of the question. You have only exploited pieces of the puzzle, which - let us say - is of great benefit to the overall formulation of an image, but which is very far from truth and needs. I am getting clearer, because we need to clarify a few key issues. By doing so, almost half of the people are leaving work, both experienced and extremely necessary. Some leave because they can't afford these conditions. Of those hired by the contract notice, many will not come, because they may not be in the final tables. And this, when it comes to covering this area of social welfare, is required on the basis of the establishment plan of five thousand workers, and all of what you have said is two thousand six hundred. Half of them are missing and there are other applications which are not met. So while Europe is literally slaughtering homes, care centres, hospitals, while the corresponding structures are being destroyed in Greece, instead of strengthening the system, it is clear that you are weakening it. Because in the next few days, people will be away. Secondly, I would ask you to respond, leaving aside the pretexts of legal obstacles - if you would say so - which have been heard in the Ministry's contact with the workers' representatives, because they have no value, but also because there are examples that have been lifted and have been correctly removed, such as the subsidiary in hospitals, the corresponding OAED workers, as well as that the extension of contracts from the provisional results of the 7K notice, as has already been done with the workers in 'Help at Home'. So there are no such arguments. Madam Minister, we call it clear. You have sole responsibility for every life at stake with your choices, because what had to be done yesterday is for everyone to stay at work and obviously from the elements of the organogram to come and so many more, by ordering hotels for staff, with dilution measures for the population, with repeated tests. These are the health protocols. But they have nothing to do with reality. Safeguarding the life of workers seems to be not your priority. It's a cost. Because it is not enough that many workers from these people are unpaid, working in unpaid conditions, without protection measures, who are obliged to go as sardines to work, under the psychological pressure "do not get sick", threatening them with public interventions. Excuse me, but are you mocking them on top, why are the only banning measures that you have taken are the ban on visiting, thermometers and questionnaires such as "Where did you go?", "who have you been with?" etc., to transfer responsibility over them. A measure, Minister, that you could even spend one euro, didn't you find? Not even a euro for the health of workers, the elderly, the disabled, for abandoned children? Not only have you left all doors open for the pandemic to reap them, as I said before in other structures, but you have also left the door open for the collapse of the health system as a whole. To close, I would like to say that there is one more peculiarity here. This is precisely the continuation of SYRIZA's policy, which continued with the previous policy, the implementation of your policy that wants the workers more and more flexible and cheap, as you need the money for the affected industrialists and shipowners, leaving the hostage workers in the game of alternating governance, recycled between work and without collective labour contracts, without any prospect of retirement, compromised with half life, with their residence still in the hands of the bankers. That's what you're doing with the last laws. Finally, in this case, Minister, the seal of the most inhumane treatment of the needs of the caregivers enters. By violating the basic rules of science every trace of culture is eliminated in dealing with the most vulnerable, defenceless, social groups. We're talking about AME, old people, children without a family environment, chronicly suffering, children abused. And the most important factor in the balance of their mentality is the absolute bondage to stable people who feel them even as parents. Anything other than the extension, the conversion of working relationships to indefinitely with the intakes that are missing directly and all the health care measures based on protocols, Minister, we must say that it will be a crime and we invite you not to commit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, while starting with the same result - if you like - from the same moral principle that it is the state's duty to protect our most vulnerable fellow citizens, it seems that we have a very different view of how the state has reached it. I want to be clear about this. Over the last decade, the social welfare institutions of the country have not been more involved than they are today. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know who you're talking about. I cannot assess any of this, because what I know is that workers in state social institutions are more than ever before. And that, because we recognized the circumstances. We're not just here to draw protocols. We're here to draw protocols. We have done - if you like - an investigation into what has been done all over Europe, where other European states with strong social welfare centres and very large welfare states have failed fully to protect the most vulnerable. So we took the lessons from there and to avoid such cases, we sat down and set a very specific containment plan, not eradicating the virus. Because until the vaccine is found, we all know that what we can do is only limit the spread of the virus. So, yeah, we made protocols. Yes, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health we have succeeded and every two weeks there are molecular tests, molecular tests in our country's nursing homes. Yes, we have been able to cooperate with the National Transparency Authority and the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection, and every two weeks there are protocol maintenance tests at the nursing homes. We do this to limit the virus as much as we can. However, the workers, but even more so the guests, have not left them alone. I'm telling you, we increased their staff by 30%. We increased the ancillary staff by 30% with five hundred, not health, but only for welfare centres. But I told you that the first thing we did within three weeks of taking office is to testify and get 7K out of these three hundred seventeen permanent staff. What you are asking, Mr Stoltides, that is to say to turn the applications for a fixed period into permanent ones, is something that has been done for twenty-five years. Since 1995, when this state has put this thing before ASEAN. I will also not be the first Undersecretary of Labour, which will circumvent something that the entire state has, fortunately, been able to observe over the past twenty-five years. And you know why? Because not only would it be unconstitutional, but because these people will take jobs on their own. Why would that be? Because the legislator has ensured that there is a special moleculosis in this experience, so that the beneficiaries and the bodies themselves, as well as the workers, are assisted. We will not circumvent the APRC, not only because in any case we would never be unconstitutional, but also because these people have the knowledge, competence and experience and will take the jobs they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too, Minister. We will continue with the first 14/5-10-20 question of the cycle of petitions and questions, by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Saraciotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct need to support the olive producers of the Kalamas variety". The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Mavroudis Vorides, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, for several months now we have tabled a series of questions to you which highlights the problems faced by the olive growers of the country, but in particular, the olive growers of the Kalamata olive variety, an excellent product, which is exportable, with high nutritional value, and which is primarily thriving in four regional units of our country: in Ieto-Acarnania, Laconia, Messinia and, of course, in Fthiotida. The problems of olive growers have not appeared with the appearance of the coronary pandemic, but there have been several months since last year's prices are extremely low. When oil producers sold around EUR 2,40-2,50 a kilo in 2018, they came to sell their product with 50 minutes, 60 minutes, 70 minutes. You realise that there was a vertical drop in the price of the product which made the whole production process difficult. For several months now, we have submitted proposals to you to deal with this issue, and we ask whether you intend to support it through the disposal of the product by local government, through cooperation between the Ministries, so that there can be a small absorption of part of the amount, but also, of course, we have proposed the implementation, the preparation of a scheme for the mobilisation of the indisposable product. At the moment, in the areas where this olive variety is thriving, many producers do not even harvest the product, for practical reasons, because they do not even have room to store this year's crop, since it is in stores in the kales last year. For these reasons, Minister, they fight and wait for your answers and actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. The problem is well known. You're tracking it. Indeed, there is a significant price reduction and, in our view, the reduction in this price is indeed due to restrictive measures taken to deal with the pandemic. They are therefore a consequence of the reduction in demand and the closure of the focus that led to this reduced demand, which in turn led to a decrease in price. What I wanted to ask you is whether this question has been written by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u68	You. And you signed it, I see, and several SYRIZA MPs. I wanted to ask you: First of all, what are you asking me? I read your questions to answer them, because if you asked me more generally, it would be different. If you asked me, "What are you going to do about the olive?", I would tell you. That's not what you're asking me. You have three questions. So you ask me if we intend to promote as a Ministry the cooperation of unilateral or cooperative efforts with local authorities. I don't control cooperatives. I don't know what the one-sided thing is, and I don't have any supervision over local government. So I don't know what you're asking me. You are also proposing to me here that the latter, local government, buy the product - that is, I suppose you mean the indisposed quantities of Kalamata olives - support, through the programmes they manage, the production of variety, embracing and based on the approach of the "state-builder of last resort", which is a proposal of SYRIZA to 'Make up Right II'. Let me clarify a few things that the signatory, Mr Arachovitis, should have pointed them out to you when you wrote the question or when you were making the programme. First of all, any aid is prohibited. Do we agree on that? Are you aware that this is the basic framework of the single market? Extremely, there are specific tools with which support can be made. I can tell you about these tools in detail. There are special exceptions, under the regulations, which allow us to intervene on the market. Can you tell me what measure you have included what you have included in ‘We stay upright II’? Where does he say that? I ask you to be able to discuss with the Ministry of the Interior - not me, the cooperative organizations - if they can go to buy. Your second question is: Does the Ministry intend to co-operate with other ministries, in order for supervised legal persons under public law, etc., to meet their existing needs, through their supply of the product in question, by adopting this? Which one? Can they buy the ministries directly? Where do you see them, where are they? I'm gonna stop here and come to the third question in my dentistry because I don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u70	Minister, after you objected to the proposals for counter-population, you did not say anything about the problem. First of all, your partners should inform you that the low product prices were not observed after the outbreak of the pandemic. There's before the coronary flare. So you started your answer from the wrong base. From there on, there are thousands of our fellow citizens who fight for oil. We have been shouting and asking questions for too many months. You don't care. You're not doing anything. The product remains undisposed. Thousands of farmers cannot pay the costs of harvesting the new crop either. And here you come and you are criticising, instead of suggesting solutions, tell farmers how they will manage to pay even the costs of land workers, to collect their products, but what they will do, because today the price is 60 minutes. I said that in recent years it had arrived - in 2018-2,5 euros, 2,40 euros and 2 euros and something. We read some papers on support, which you eventually get back, very small amounts of money. We could, if this proposal goes ahead, comment on and evaluate it. However, you have actually given an answer to which you have not mentioned one measure or one initiative you intend to take. You're just here to criticize the proposals. Do you have a plan? Do you know first of all the problem? As far as I understand it, from your answer, you do not know that very well because you have thrown this into the pandemic as well. Do you have a plan to support these people? I would like to present two more letters to you recently, one from the Pelasgia Agricultural Association, which continues to protest against people and one from the Agricultural Olive Cooperative Stylida. It is yesterday's letter, which has been sent to all Members of Parliament in Fthiotida. The same letters are received by all the Members from the affected areas in the four regional sections I mentioned to you. Everyone expects answers, and you have come and criticise the proposals of counter-population. The farmers will assess it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u72	As far as I understand it, I am encouraged to take no account of your questions and to discuss what we are going to do and what we intend to do to support this disorder. This is a good position, but you could not do this all because you tell me that I criticise your proposals. You are asking me whether I am going to do what you are asking me to do if I am going to promote cooperation between unilateral or cooperative bodies. I say to you that what you're asking me is not going anywhere and you tell me that I am criticising your proposal. You then ask me if I intend - the Ministry - to do something with other ministries to meet existing needs. I'm answering. He's not going anywhere. This is an irrelevant position, which is illegal. You're telling me I'm criticizing your proposals. I'm going to the third question. You did not ask me, Mr Colleague, what I intend to do. If you asked me what I'm going to do, I'd answer you what I'm going to do. You're asking me if I'm prepared to do this. If you don't like what you're asking, ask them differently. And in the end, you're asking me if I'm going to make a decommissioning program for decongestion. I'll talk a little bit more about that. But be careful. I say you do it with your good heart. If you were given an attorney for their requests, the olive producers must change quickly. Why? Because while the only tool we have to support them is the coronary disorder, you just told me that the disorder is not because of the coronary, so I can't support them! I hope nobody listens, because if there is no coronary disorder and it is a disruption because of commercial causes, then there is no possibility of support, Mr Colleague! So we insist - we are not listening to you - and we have established that the disorder is because of the coronary, and that is why we will give state aid, and that is why we will give 13 million euros to support the product. So we are doing what is all we can do, and because we do not listen to you - and fortunately others do not listen to you - we also got the approval of the European Commission for this. So the European Commission's approval of this aid has been given, but fortunately they do not listen to you because it is a coronary approval, because if it were not, it would not have any aid at all. And I come to the last, the oilification. What measures are envisaged in the regulation to be lawful? Because the crisis distillation we have made is provided for by a specific measure of the regulation in the market organisation measures. The oiling out of where is it planned to do it? That's the first. And secondly, how are we gonna make the oilification? Is there a similar register that emerges and is there a declaration of production, to know that the one who presents me the olives brings me his own olives and does not bring me olives anywhere, to come in, even if there was the measure of the regulation that does not exist? And there are no registers, precisely because the market organisation in the olive sector you are claiming to know it does not have these characteristics. So you're doing well and you're transferring anxiety, anxiety, we know it and we're taking action. They also do well not to hear you from those who hear you say that, because you lead them to the loss of aid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, the 3-11-2020 penal procedure concerning the Minister of Health, Mr. Vasilis Kikilia. The third question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of the SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Saraciotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food will be discussed now, on the subject of: 'Reimbursement and reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil'. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is well known that the agricultural production of our country has been severely affected both during the multiannual crisis and during the pandemic period. Despite their high quality Greek products are difficult to compete in both European and international markets. One of the causes is the major, time-consuming and multi-level issue of very high production costs. This high cost, this serious problem can, of course, be cured by a number of measures and initiatives, but also by the implementation of major infrastructure projects. A proportion, part of the cost of production, is related to the high cost of energy and, in particular, to the oil consumption tax. It is a common assumption that during this period our producers, our farmers and farmers, and of course, the primary sector, have a substantial need for support. A measure which you announced last September and which applies to foreign countries - applies to Cyprus, Italy and Portugal - is implemented in Spain - is the necessary reintroduction of the measure to refund excise duty on oil. I would like to ask you whether you are working in this direction and whether you intend to cooperate in order to pay for the reimbursement of excise duty in previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u75	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. You are now asking the Minister for Rural Development for a tax policy measure. Would it not be more sensible to ask Mr Stakoura this question? He's responsible for fiscal policy. We as the Ministry of Rural Development have a firm position. We always want to reduce the burden on production, whether this is tax or any other cost. Obviously, this is the position of the Minister for Rural Development, because the point of view of the Minister for Rural Development is a visual production. From there on, should we not take account of the financial possibilities? Who takes account of the financial possibilities? Isn't the Minister of Finance doing it? So this question should go to the Minister of Finance. I don't remember, when was this abolition? Also, if I remember correctly, four and a half years took place. So why didn't you take care of this measure so that we don't talk about it now and we don't have it as a request? Finally, because you support it, because for four and a half years you have not gone to tell your own people, either the Finance Ministers or the Rural Development Ministers, that this tax must be abolished and that there must be a specific regulation on the issue of agricultural oil. So it is inappropriate for you to put this in place, because you have ruled for four and a half years and have not done so. So one thing is that. The second is that all this is obviously taking into account and will continue to be taken into account in order to give the financial space and the financial capacity. It is a measure which, in any case, supports the Ministry of Rural Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u78	Minister, if I entered your logic, I would say that you as a New Democracy cannot speak of any issue in the rural world, because the rural world has lived with you for too many decades. From there on, I think you were the ones who in November 2019 declared to a specific forum, namely the Agri Business Forum, that "we are doing well", "you will hear it from the Prime Minister", that you are working in this direction and confirmed the country's fiscal capacity. It was your statement in a farmer's forum. From there on, the Prime Minister himself and last year in the PPC to a question from a regional journalist said that it is your immediate priority to promote this aid to reduce production costs and support costs for farmers. Has something changed since last November? Do you continue to support and act in this direction? If nothing else, have you made any suggestions to the relevant Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u79	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u80	Madam President, I do not want to add anything special but this: firstly, there has never been a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy on this issue. Secondly, I have never committed myself to a specific time limit for the implementation of this matter, for agricultural oil. That is only to clarify the truth. However, I repeat from this House that it is obviously a more general policy of the Ministry of Rural Development to support any measure that reduces production costs and reduces burdens to the producer and makes Greek agriculture more competitive. This is more generally part of our policy. However, the budgetary possibilities for these policies are determined by the Ministry of Finance, which makes an overall assessment of the country's budgetary possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. And now we are going to the second question under number 16/5-10-20 of the question of the circle of petitions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Application of resources for the Ministry of Rural Development in the new National Development Programme 2021-2025'. The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Voridis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Greece is not a federation and does not have autonomous regions or tariffs with ministries. That is why they are completely and absolutely dangerous ministers to say that they have at least a responsibility, which Mr Theodorikos has already done. I hope, Minister, that our question about the National Development Plan does not have the same fate as a similar statement from you. This is a national programme set up for all the productive and economic actors and which, based on the decision published on 16 February 2020, makes an allocation of 6 billion 845 million, with the Ministry of Rural Development being the ‘poor relative’ with funding of only 28 million. When pandemic has, of course, raised problems in many areas, but also in the value of policies that ensure health on the one hand, and on the other, nutritional adequacy, when tourism, which is the main affected, is completely combined with the agri-food sector, this decision by the Government on non-exhaustive financing of the agricultural sector by the National Rural Development Programme 2021-2025 is totally unacceptable. What we are calling for is your position to amend this decision, to introduce the additional funds which will enable the Ministry of Rural Development to have wider support policies in all areas, through actions and everything else dictated by the main principles of the programme, in order to support the agricultural sector, which was not done either because of the problems that existed before the koruna or the previous government, which you have often called on, as before, for oil. Three times we have, in fact, tabled the amendment to introduce an oil and energy card and rejected it by the previous SYRIZA government. But that cannot be an alibi, and we cannot rely on the mistakes made by previous speakers, so that we do not correct them today and do not exercise the necessary policies. That is why we invite you to tell us your position about it and to know where we are going. In my dentistry, I'll tell the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u84	I'm not going to discuss the federation, because Mr. Kegeroglu is experienced. Mr Colleagues, you understand that this distribution for which you are asking for clarification has not been made by the Ministry of Rural Development. You know that. So you come and ask me a question about the allocation, and you ask me why the Ministry of Rural Development took EUR 28 million, while the distribution has not been made. So what do you want now? So far the debate is a deplorable one, because you will make me read the answer sent to me by the Ministry of Development, when our approach to the Ministry of Rural Development and our proposals were obviously different. But let me read to you what the Department of Development is answering now, not me. I read to you: ‘The allocation of resources between the sectoral programmes took into account among others in the budget of the integrated projects the incorporations for 2019, the estimates for the outstanding outstanding balance of projects in the year at the end of 2020 and was adjusted on the basis of the prospects of the Greek economy and the increased needs in specific sectors due to the current situation’. At the same time, of course, there is also a possibility. I will tell you this, to close my answer because I don't have much more to say. More about the rationale of the distribution should be told by the Ministry of Development. In addition, taking into account all the proposals to be included in the National Development Plan, they may be considered and, if necessary, revised in accordance with Article 129(2) of Law No 4635/2019 and the budget of each sectoral or regional programme may include a budget for projects exceeding the approved budget by 30%. We therefore tell the Ministry of Rural Development that it will be considered and reassessed in the implementation of the programme to include all those infrastructure projects which have been deemed necessary, for which there are mature conditions for their implementation. Further clarifications, analyses and details at the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u86	Minister, I went to catch up with you. Unfortunately, I didn't catch up with you. You have fallen into the same error as Mr Theodorikos. As co-responsibility, you both declared unauthorized. There is no policy in the rural area, in the agricultural sector, in the productive sector, to evade the powers of the Ministry of Rural Development. Policies also have financial instruments. And financial instruments are collectively decided by the government on the proposals of the Ministries. I would understand an answer: 'We asked for 320m euros, but they gave us 28m euros'. I'd understand that. But you didn't let us know. Did you ask for 28 million, or did you ask for fewer, and did they give you more and fear that you would not be embarrassed? Your answer suggests that. So when we have a huge health crisis with very great economic and social consequences, we should firstly ensure the country's food adequacy and cover the gaps in the crackdown on the supply chain, which occurred because of the crisis and highlighted the need to have self-sufficiency and production that will also cover other markets. The second is that we must see the agricultural sector as an area that can provide employment and therefore replace the Gross National Product, which is lost because of the crisis. To see the agricultural sector, agricultural production as a twin brother with tourism. Therefore, since we support tourism and the businesses and workers who have suffered serious damage from COVID, the agricultural sector should also be supported. Mostly, however, let's see how it recovers. Recovery is the thing. So for recovery today it is an opportunity for the National Development Programme to launch policies and actions that will lead to this. We therefore say that there is a direct need to amend the National Programme 2021-2025. Not just to increase, but to multiply the sum of 28 million to enable the Ministry of Rural Development to pursue policies, to acquire other financial instruments and, of course, to see how we face the problems in the primary sector, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, forestry production in all the agri-food sector, which is one of the most affected, but at the same time is the hope that there can be productive reconstruction in the country. With some 28 million of the 7 billion productive reconstruction in the country is not possible. And don't tell me in your second speech that you have the European Union's Rural Development Programme and the CFP, because the Ministry of Rural Development also has other European tools. So the 845 million that he received against 28 million of the agricultural sector obviously cannot be compared. So I ask for your opinion and what was the request from the Ministry of Rural Development, as a whole, from the Government, what was the amount you claimed in order to implement the policies you have planned in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u88	Mr Colleague, you may have misunderstood my answer. I think the government has a collective responsibility. We're all responsible for everything. But you are asking for clarification on a particular matter. I did not say to you that I did not accept the distribution, or I did not tell you that I did not bring my share of responsibility for the distribution. But you asked me to clarify why this was the case. I cannot give you the explanations on that, because I did not. I shall shortly be recognizing a text that is the approach of the Ministry of Development's services. That doesn't mean I'm retiring. The same applies to the previous question. When someone asked me about agricultural oil - because you referred to it too - it does not mean that I am avoiding total government responsibility. But I say to you that if a colleague wants to explain to him why, for example, he has not been given agricultural oil, he is talking about fiscal policy, so this question should be asked by the Minister for Finance. This does not mean that we have no responsibility for whether oil was given or whether it was allocated. So the answer is in it. I would also like to tell you that it is obviously all part of a context of more general consideration. Yes, of course, there is also the consideration of the Rural Development Programme, but there is also the Reconstruction Fund in front of us, and so there is an overall approach of who is financed from where. I repeat, however, that the important thing here and there, since you want to go deeper, and it does not cover our position, which is that we have more ambitious proposals on this issue, and we will see their merits and their legal potential, in the context of the revision of these allocations, then most of the clarifications - I call on you, because I see that you have a sincere interest - are questions which have to be answered by the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u89	I plead to 320 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u90	That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate on the last time question for today. The third question will be discussed with number 109/2-11-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arseni, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Why does Greece not sign the International Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons'? The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Konstantinos Vlassis. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, this is a matter of enormous importance. Our country is now in fact supporting nuclear weapons. It is one of the countries that does not sign the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. It is reasonable to ask the question with the history of this country, the struggle for world peace, where whole cities have been declared cities where nuclear sites are banned, where entire regions of our country and mass movements have stood up against the danger of a nuclear war, now being our country to be the one that does not sign up, what? The ban on the disposal and possession of nuclear weapons. Really, it's unexplainable. It's a blow to peace, it's a blow to common sense. We want you to explain how Greece is now getting to the point that it is not one of the signatories, how much it is not one of those who ratify the convention, which, of course, has been ratified by fifty countries and has been in force for a few days now. In other words, we want you to tell us clearly what policies we ultimately serve, whether this option is independent or dependent, and what you will do in order to overturn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u94	Mr Arseni, obviously, you must be incompletely informed of the overall context. So I would like to tell you that Greece is a full member of the Nuclear Weapons Non-Proliferation Treaty Treaty, since February 26, 1970. This treaty is the foundation of nuclear disarmament, even on the basis of three pillars: firstly, the reduction of the nuclear weapons of the five recognised nuclear powers by the NPT I mentioned earlier, secondly, the avoidance of further dispersion of nuclear weapons, and thirdly, the spread of the peaceful use of nuclear energy by all those who want it. So Article 6 of this Treaty provides for a gradual and verifiable approach to nuclear disarmament in the context of international security and stability. At the same time, Greece, as a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, is in favour of nuclear disarmament in a rational and realistic way, on the basis of NATO-agreeds, as reflected in the strategic doctrine of the alliance in 2010, in the text on the revision of the alliance's deterrence and defence clause in 2012 and in the declaration of the Wales Summit in 2014. The negotiation of a treaty for the complete ban on nuclear weapons, to which you are referring, has now taken place without the participation of States having nuclear weapons in their arsenal or presence - France, the United Kingdom and China - but also other countries which do not have nuclear weapons and are in our neighborhood, such as Germany, Cyprus, Italy, Spain, Portugal and others, and the final text does not include - and I stress this - the necessary international procedure of strict verification which is an insurance link for the abolition of nuclear weapons. This led Greece to the non-participation of this agreement as a Contracting Party, but the decision in question does not allow for any interpretation, Mr Arseni. Our commitment to the idea of a world without nuclear, lasting peace, security and stability was, is, is and will be, a attitude of principle and responsibility. And in this position we will always be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is incomprehensible to try to mislead the citizens who are listening to us right now. You referred to a UN Convention, a treaty signed by Greece, as they sign it and all the other possible states in the world, and this convention refers to the development and testing, production, construction, acquisition, processing and storage of nuclear weapons. It is not clearer than that. In this Greece it is against. It's against their ban. You referred to the speech because it is NATO's policy. You said it clearly. The NATO countries have been absent since the signing. Let us say clearly that it is a policy that NATO has dictated to us and not national policy. Say it clearly! Now because you said a few states participated, a hundred and twenty-two countries supported the process, a hundred and twenty-two countries, Minister. I want to make it clear in this Chamber who dictate our policies now at UN level, who dictate, what they vote and what we do not vote on. If you want to be honest with the citizens, tell us the advisability of not signing this so important treaty that is now a treaty of the United Nations and has been ratified by fifty countries and has been implemented. All you said to us is: 'But since we signed the other for the disarmament signed by the major nuclear countries.' We did not sign the one that the nuclear powers do not sign because it does not interest them. We do 'plates' in the nuclear powers, as we as a country are fortified against a nuclear war. To what extent are we going to violate the interests of this country, of the citizens? To what extent, Minister? I call on you at the moment to change radically and to make it self-evident, to sign this UN Treaty prohibiting the development, testing, production, construction, acquisition, processing and storage of nuclear weapons. It's self-evident. If you ask a citizen in our society today, there will be no one who can imagine that his country and his government did not sign this treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u97	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u98	Mr Arsenis, obviously you did not hear me or want to hear me and certainly you did not mention what these fifty countries have ratified this treaty, and you are also not talking about the fact that almost all of it even our European family has not ratified this treaty. That is why I am saying it, and I stress it, without any footnotes and clear words: Greece is in favour of nuclear disarmament in a way that is rational and realistic. In this spirit, therefore, and in recent years, Mr Arsenis, has made the political choice to be drawn firmly with the Japanese inspiration to the first General Assembly of the United Nations General Assembly, which provides for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons with respect to the NPT standards, 'Non-Proliferation Treaty'. It also places particular emphasis on respect for all safety protocols on the part of States that hold weapons of mass destruction, and seeks to actively participate in the international dialogue. Only such a development would produce real and substantial results in the removal of nuclear energy for military purposes. We hope, therefore, that these states will show the necessary wisdom and move forward in the future, if not in their nuclear disarmament, at least in the significant restriction of nuclear weapons in their possession, thereby making progress in the process of further spreading them and, of course, always keeping the international community informed. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Finally, we should point out that our country is working - and you have not mentioned these previously - along with countries - on the full banning of nuclear weapons to slow down the dangerous peaceful use of nuclear energy in the context of, among others, the NPT, the International Atomic Energy Agency and the European Union. So I'm going to stay and emphasise once again that speaking big talk doesn't say anything. We are the government of substance and can look you in the eye and say that we are in favour of nuclear disarmament, but in a rational and realistic way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-11-04-S1-commons.u100	With the consent of this House at 10.42' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 5 November 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's legislative work, on the agenda that has been distributed.
