ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 20 January 2020: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 362/13-1-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on "To carry out the full implementation of the Transport Equivalent for Crete" programme. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 374/14-1-2020 is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Restoration of the Fortress Itzedin and its performance in the local society". 3. The Question No 355/9-1-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'An unjustified omission of the appointment of successful 3P/2008 competition'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: “Union treatment of teachers, successful in the written tender of the 2008 SAP.” 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "To implement the Presidential Decree 45 on the professional rights of the Departments of Science and Technology of Materials, of the University of Crete and Patras". I would also like to inform you that with his document - as always done - the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that eleven questions will be asked today. There is only one time-consuming question. This is the fourth question under number 353/7-1-2020 of the first cycle of the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group and MP Larissa Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “The operation of illegal NGOs in Greece”, which will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr Koumoutsakou, who is abroad. We will begin with the first under number 359/13-1-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy Athens Parliamentary Council Mr. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Statification of penalties for infringements in the Emergency Strips (LEA)". Mrs Pipilis' timely question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mrs. Pipili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the recent very bad image created in the entire Greek society on December 30th 2019 in the Malakasa region was the opportunity to make this topical question, given that public opinion was really mad at not only by the whole picture, by the balloting, in any case, of the situation for a evening where it had and mild snowfall, but mainly by the violating, provocative and antisocial behaviour of too many drivers, who, in a new Greek mentality, took over the Emergency Strip, so the picture became even worse. Of course, the reaction of the two relevant ministries, I have to say, was even retrospectively immediate. Mr. Chrysochoidis, the Minister for Civil Protection, literally took over by the responsible Police Director of Tropical Affairs, and you reacted instantly and called for apology or a check on what responsibilities the concessionaire "New Street" had. In any case, I am concerned, in echoing the opinion of the public - I do not want to take much time, I will say it in my dentistry - is it prepared to tighten up the Ministry - I am adding 'and exterminately still' - the administrative and criminal fines to our provocative fellow citizens who have taken no reason, just because they are the smartest, the Emergency Strips? And another thing that emerged and has to do with the climate change that we are experiencing, which will certainly worsen mild weather in Greece as well. On the basis of what happened in Malakasa, will the Ministry also discuss imposing on Greece, such as in many European countries, the mandatory application of winter tyres vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Pipilis, I would like to thank you for the question you are asking, because the issue is also topical, but also extremely important, and it concerns - I think - a large part of the Greek society. I think that those of us who are on the major motorways are, unfortunately, very often witnessing such phenomena. And I will confess to you that on the day that the incident you described in Malakasa took place, and we were trying to use the LA to go to the management center to see what happened and we couldn't go through many places. You are therefore quite right that the Road Traffic Code should be tightened. But here, I want to give a little parentheses. You will allow me to say that many times in the past the Road Traffic Code has been tightened up. You are an old Member, you have been elected a Member several times and you are following these issues and in the capacity of the journalist. I remember that every time there was a great communiqué, that we were making the Road Traffic Code more stringent. It is not just a question of becoming more stringent, which needs to be done for specific infringements, such as what you have pointed out about the LEADER. We are talking about the Extensive Marketing Strip, where it can even be lost a life if, for example, it cannot pass a vehicle, either a fire-fighting or an ambulance from that strip. Let me inform you - as you quite rightly said - that there is currently in the Road Traffic Code No 4530/2018 and is being punished on site by removing traffic data and driving licence for sixty days from twenty days. The question, however, again here is that the law does not apply. That is why we are in a very good cooperation with Trains and the Ministry of Civil Protection, because the problem is not just on the major motorways. The problem is on other highways, but in the center of Athens. And on the Attica Street we see this phenomenon. And it is a motorway, which - you will agree with me - is being watched very seriously. Therefore, the aim of the Transport Ministry for 2020 is to sit with all operators and make an adjustment to the Road Traffic Code with high fines for specific infringements, but not all. Because when you put too much fines, they're dissuasive. However, most important of all - and I think you will agree with me - is the application of the law. We recently had an example of the anti-smoking law with high fines, but which were first implemented. So this good example will be followed, fines specific infringements such as the one you mentioned. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm gonna need a second. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. We have also been in contact with the European Investment Bank, the EIB, which has been discussing - and with the previous government - a large package of road safety. That is what I think will help to train drivers and to change attitudes and to go to schools to talk to children about road safety, but also to make crucial contributions to secondary road networks so that we do not mourn victims. I would remind you that Greece is, unfortunately, in the 20th second place in traffic accidents in the European Union and that is something we need to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Pipilis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I fully agree with you that having high fines does not lead to the non-violence of rules on road traffic or other issues. Here, however, you will allow me to say that it is not possible in the 30-3-2018 Government Journal Leaflet, at the time of SYRIZA - ANEL, what is certified to drivers who in any way use the Emergency Strip, even for a minimum period of time, is the local removal of traffic and driving data for sixty days and there is not even the bogeyman, in any case, whoever Greeks pays, my child, even a fine. I found this in the FEK. It's incomprehensible. I've always known that there were also fines in the LAA or in the COK. I don't know what happened. Is social policy, like, of SYRIZA, which decriminating and noise pollution, which fortunately changed and became criminal again, a crime and can some people also report to the police and sleep in peace? I therefore agree with you on high fines, especially for the LEA, but I would ask you to be extremely high, because it is a deterrent. It's not just the control. It's a deterrent, too. To put it well in his mind "Greek" that if he enters LA, he will pay an exterior fine. You're right about the anti-smoking law. It was both the control. However, it has succeeded since the exterior fine entered both the client and especially the shopkeeper. And it worked at 99%, Mr. Karamanlis, because in the back of their minds they also have fear. And I would like you to answer the question of tyres, if you think about it, because it is being debated very strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Pipili, I said the application problem is one piece. And you're right. Unfortunately, we are living in a country - you will agree with me - legal formalism, where we are voting for strict legislative provisions, but which never apply or often do not apply. So the big bet on executive power, on ministries, is to do the laws that are being passed. I think we have all witnessed - we who are circulating and living in Athens - that at the moment there is an incomplete one, to say it politely...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u9	Unexistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u10	I'll say it's incomplete. So for years there has been an incomplete policing, especially in parking matters, because there has been a complete lack of competence. So all these issues will be put down with the municipalities and the relevant Ministry of Civil Protection to see how we deal with them. Because the image of Athens and Thessaloniki, the major cities of Greece, where everyone parks wherever they want, everyone does what they want and nobody is controlled, is not just about the stricting of the COK. I agree with some unacceptable defects like that of the LAF. And we will not just be strict, but we will also monitor the implementation of the law. On the question of tyres, I would like to inform you and Parliament that we are the only country in the European Union, I think, that we still have the system of anti-slip chains, the chains, that is, for a long time. This creates the following problem, which I think we all understand: When we go to a highway, we have to put chains on, we have to stop, we have to put them, we have to take them out, and often we cannot put them on and take them off. That was one of the reasons we had the problem in Malakasa. The question, therefore, is that other countries in Europe and other Balkan countries with a per capita income below Greece have legislated snow-savings for a certain period of time. So I am open to discuss this proposal with the relevant bodies, but I have the impression that we will be taking the initiative very soon. We have contacted the co-responsible ministries to make a general provision for blocking traffic on the major motorways so that we do not see these phenomena again. I mean, when Truck says the road closes, the road closes. When the Train says that you can't go to that highway without all the necessary tools and means that your vehicle has to have, there'll be a strict fine. Once we have to see and realize that road safety issues must be brought to the fore, because, as I have said to you in my prototype, we are mourning too many victims, unjustifiedly many victims. Unfortunately, we are in the 20th second place in fatal accidents in Europe, and that is what the state must face with one seriousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u11	We are now moving on to the first with number 364/13-1-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Don't worry and questions about the course of the construction of the new judiciary in Heraklion". Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know from the questions that have been asked lately, that the building of the new judiciary of Heraklion is a great necessity for the city of Heraklion - and not only for the whole of Crete - while taking the form of urgent intervention, due to the bad existing infrastructure in the other functions and building infrastructure of the courts. Mr President, let me say a few words, making an effort, let us understand that the sterile opposition tactic does not solve problems, but creates and ultimately is at the expense of Greek society. What do I mean? It mentions a fellow Member, addressing the Minister for Justice, during the question on the same subject a few days ago, that it took three years to move the dossier from one service to another and this 2018. It says, in fact, that this inertia - which is why I am talking about the sterile opposition tactic - of the previous SYRIZA government, which was clearly politically inertia, for the creation of the judiciary in Heraklion, must be brought to an end. Who is saying that, Mr President? For several years, Minister, it has been the cause of cancer that has been a very important project for the whole of Crete. Why am I saying that? I want to document what I'm saying. On 1-8-2002, there was a decision by the then Minister of Justice on the assignment of the work to a construction company. On 6-9-2006, four years later, the Interministerial Council decides to approve 100m euros for the project via PPP. On 25-9-2014, eight years later, again a decision of the Minister of Justice on a specific expropriated plot, which, Minister, had been expropriated since 2003. And not only this, but in 2008 the EGO of Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities points out with a written set of actions that are required by its side, as there was evidence of archaeological findings on the plot to be raised by the new judiciary. Why did I say that, Mr President? Why are we coming in 2017 - and by 2017 there was hardly anything that had been done - to recover the file from the Ministry of Infrastructure, where it was indeed. We, Minister, and then we asked questions - and this is evidenced by the questions we submitted - and we were pressing the then ministers, the Minister of Culture, the Minister of Infrastructure and the Minister of Finance. If you wish, I had asked to be informed on 6-12-2017, on 19-12-2017, with relevant questions, but also in 2018. And, of course, I came back on 13-11-2019 - and this is essential - and in the reply I received from you, the work that has been done - and obviously also by the Ministry of Culture - over the last four years, namely the conclusion of a contract for topographic studies, the Convention on Geographical Research and the study on the building of the judiciary, Heraklion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Vardakis, please be brief. We won't tell the story of the matter. The question is whether money will be given or not to be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, it is the work that has been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u15	Yeah, okay, but we have a bill later, and we can't show tolerance today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u16	I am going to overlook, Minister - after all, you know what work had been done. I would also like to tell you that, in a similar question to Mr Chiara, the Minister for Justice, Mr Tsiara responded - I say only once again - to 'we are at the final stage in building such a serious project'. I, Mr President, will not give a second answer if the Minister tells us today, as Mr Chiara has said, that we are in the final stage and that he will announce the timetable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u17	But that does not mean that I am making a setback on the protagonists. I understand your question. Minister, you have the floor. Hercules is this now. What can we do? We left twice the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u18	Mr Vardakis, I should like to make a general comment and say that I do not think we are helping when we are making controversy and going back to the past, who did what if this work belongs to one government or another. The question is this: You understand that, unfortunately, the procedures in Greece are the ones they are. This is a pathogen, which I think we should tackle at some point. But you will allow me to tell you that things are not exactly like that. In the reply I gave you in November, I told you in detail what steps we have taken in connection with the construction of the judiciary in Heraklion and what work will be done in the existing judiciary. You tell us that these actions were taken on SYRIZA. I won't confront you. But they did. I'm sorry, but I'll prove you're wrong. And I'm explaining: Firstly, the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, that is, the Department of Building Infrastructure, has proceeded with all the necessary steps to develop the project and to integrate it, Mr Vardakis, into the PPP, which was the subject of the matter, as I had developed in my reply in November. Secondly, on 5 September 2019, the Financial Adviser’s contract to assist the CCF was signed on issues relating to actions relating to the preparation of an international competition in both Heraklion’s new judiciary and Edessa’s. I put forward the relevant document for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Third, on September 30, 2019, support studies for the maturation of the project were completed, as well as the final receipt of the study of topographics for the building of the judiciary. I present the relevant document for your information in the minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Fourthly, on October 23, 2019, the provision of additional information and clarification to the Special Secretariat of the PPP, which is also the case, because from there, Mr Vardakis, we will take the money, following the document sent by the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. I put the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] For our part, therefore, we have given the clarification we need and we are moving very quickly to complete the examination of the case in order to promote the Interministerial Committee on PPPs and to sign and find funding for the project. From this point of view, I think it is clear that not only did we leave this semester - as you imply in your question - the work in its own luck, not only did we not act as an impediment, but we ran from the Ministry for the Procedures. And I will agree with you that the previous government had taken the initial steps to unleash this project. For projects such as these do not matter, Mr Vardakis, who starts them and who starts them. Projects such as these are important to be made and political consensus - which exists - to proceed with this work as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u19	Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u20	Minister, I am satisfied to some extent with the answer you have given, recognising what has been done by the previous government. I think you're honest. Since this is a stage before the interministerial government, we will be waiting. I will not take any more time, Mr President. Since we have you here, Minister, I would just like to ask you one question and if you wish, answer me. We've been waiting for you two and a half months now to get off for the BOAK announcements. Drop and pull carpets to get down. We don't see it. If you have an answer, you can give it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u21	Can't any of your fellow MP rugs turn? Just for the ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, you cannot complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u23	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u24	You will allow me, Mr. Bardakis, to tell you that the story with the BOAK is an old story. You who are from the area know it better. And you will allow me to tell you that what you did as a government - and I have said it on several occasions - was a smokescreen. You ashes in the eyes of your voters and you fooled them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u25	I asked another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u26	Not you. Previous political leadership of the Ministry. And I'm explaining very soon and I'll tell you what we're doing. You went out and did a rough competition without having made a road engraving and without any studying maturity. Any technician you ask will surely tell you, if he is objective, that we are at a stage right now very early. So we start from the very simple and say: if we do not guarantee funding for the project - but in the meantime, all studies run at the same time - it is absolutely time to say things that do not apply. Once I think we should stop announcing projects that are never done. So when we announce something, we should be able to implement it. And the government is considering - and I am given the opportunity to say it for the first time in public - two scenarios for the financing of the project. Scenario One: Get some revenue from another concession contract and fund the BOAK. This, however, needs the approval of creditors, because the money taken by the Greek State, the revenue it receives from such activities, goes largely to the service of the public debt. The other thing that the government is considering - and this is being dealt with at a higher government level - is to use the returns of the central banks to finance such development projects. We, therefore, and the Prime Minister himself, who has pledged that the northern axis of Crete will finally begin, will very soon be able to announce the first and most important, in other words, where he will find money. Because when we have the funding, we will be able to do the work. And I will remind you that since 2015, Mr Vardakis, even if we have studied maturity for a project, even if the public services have done their job properly and have matured the studies and received an environmental impact study and have auctioned in some cases, if we have not secured funding, it does not mean that the project will be done. Europe has now tightened up the data and the technical advisers of the European Commission. We are committed to two major motorways that we will take them out, Patras - Tower and the Northern Axis of Crete. I am at your disposal whenever you like - and any Member of Parliament - and in the process of topical questions, but also in private, I should like to inform you of what we are doing, so that these projects can once be unlocked and started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u27	We are moving on to the third with number 381/14-1-2020 appropriate question for a second question by MP B2' West Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Reinforcing the poor transport situation in Petroupolis over the last few months". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the situation in Petroupolis has really deteriorated with regard to transport lately, especially after September. We have delays that exceed forty-five minutes. And we are talking about a municipality, the Municipality of Petroupolis, which is an exception throughout the Greek territory for a very good reason: it has a shocking youth population that could compare only with Muslim countries, that is, the proportion of young people with the average population. This creates increased needs, because, as you can see, young people are entirely dependent on transport to go to their schools, in any of their activities, often in their schools. These people are currently experiencing problems that change and stop the rhythm of their lives. That is, they cannot reach their jobs in time, they cannot reach their schools in time, in their care and in whatever other activity they have. They don't take a bus vacation. They live their everyday lives. And late forty-five minutes at every meeting of you, every job of yours, it's very important. We are talking about the 700 line connecting Petroupoli to the metro of Anthuboli, the main line connecting Petroupoli to the nearest station, the B11 and A11 lines connecting it to the centre of Athens. I would like you to tell us what you will do to stop this in order to restore normality. This is a word your government likes. We want to restore normality to the lives of the people of Petroupoli. And we want you to tell us if you're committed to the date that has been announced for the Petropolis subway station in 2026, that is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr Arsenis, thank you very much for your question. The truth is that we have discussed here in Parliament even with you on the issue of urban transport, so I do not want to repeat the criticism I have made. But I would like to tell you a few figures to understand the potential of vehicles and the human potential of OSCE today. Right now, we have a collapse of income in the OSCE. We have under a thousand traffic routes and the average bus age exceeds 15 years. That is the situation we have received. Magic wand we don't have. Also, what we are doing in the first phase to help the passenger public is to make a rationalisation in the capital's urban transport network, with the aim of better service for the passenger. So what we are doing is gradually eliminating the problems you are talking about in urban transport and creating interoperability by means of fixed tracks. Now, in the current phase and the issue you have mentioned, the transport link between the municipality of Petroupoli and the centre of Athens is carried out with Line A11 and B11 connecting the municipality to Vathis Square, which is located in the wider center of Athens. OSCE and OSCE official data on telematics have reported that on these routes the so-called “time distances” are up to ten minutes. And another line, which connects the region to the centre of Athens, is the A13 Kippopolis - Omonia with a time distance of nine and ten minutes. Where, as you say, the delay touches 15 to twenty minutes - and that is the average, Mr Arsenis, because there may be delays forty-five minutes, but that is not the average, we take the average - it is in the lines linking Petersburg to regional stations, such as Lines 24 to St. Antony, 700 to Anthopolis. But where there is a long delay, not forty-five minutes, our goal is, in any case, with the existing fleet that we have today, that the OSCE will make the best possible improvement in urban transport, but we cannot do miracles. What we can do is quickly run the process for a major international competition, so that Athens and Thessaloniki have new buses within eighteen months. I shall conclude, Mr President. I would remind you that four and a half years ago the previous leadership of the Ministry of Transport had not done anything to launch a major international environmentally friendly new vehicles, which is financed by the European Investment Bank, and when it held this competition two months before the elections, this competition went down to the Independent Procurement Authority. In my denture, because I don't have time, I'll answer you on the subway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u31	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. It is better that we have discussed this in this Chamber and yesterday, if you and your colleagues can answer questions in your prototype so that we too can be placed in our own second language, otherwise - if you will - not the dialogue provided for by the Rules of Procedure for the current questions. Mr President, I would like you to understand that. I am pleased that you are announcing that the competition will proceed and that we will even have what I have understood and environmentally friendly buses. I'd like you to tell us exactly if it's going to be electrical, exactly what technology is. The delays, as you admitted, are huge. I would again point out the fact that we are talking about a very special municipality. Petroupoli has one out of three citizens under thirty years of age, is a population comparable to a Muslim country. It has a very young population which means disproportionate needs in public infrastructure, and that is why it needs a special support, and so the problems are much more acute than the delay. Obviously, you know that when we talk about a twenty-minute average delay on the main lines that connects to the nearby metro station, you know what the extreme delay is. Sometimes he won't be delayed at all, sometimes he'll be delayed over forty-five minutes. It's a huge delay, if it's the middle of fifteen to twenty minutes. I really want you to see how there can be a special care for Petroupoli, just the special circumstances and I expect its commitment to date 2026 for the metro of Petroupoli. It's very critical. We have a municipality with very different characteristics, if you like it with features that all municipalities in Greece would like. Let us show that when we really have demographic characteristics, which otherwise we are looking for in the period of the demographic crisis, we are responding to increased needs, we are responding to what is needed for this society and this municipality to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u33	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, the demographic figures you mention to me have not known them and are very interesting. But you will agree with me, Mr Arsenis, that public transport means young people want to use them more, we have them for all Greek citizens too. I will give a special emphasis to the question of Petroupoli. I'm at your disposal to discuss this with OSCE, if you want. I have explained in my prototype what the situation we have received is. The big bet, for which the government and I will be judged personally, is whether we will be able in 2020 to do what we say, to raise urban transport in Athens. That is why the competition I mentioned is a prerequisite for you. It is a tender with which we must buy at least seven hundred buses, because by 2023 seven hundred buses are withdrawn, unless we want to do what SYRIZA, Mr Arsenis, I am sure you will not agree, increase the legal age limit of buses in Greece, as SYRIZA has repeatedly done, because it could not make a serious tender and buy new buses. At least one third of these buses will be electric, but it wants very much attention, because I will remind you of the case of the municipality of San Francisco where he ordered three hundred electric cars and only received twenty. It wants a great deal of attention to the design on which routes will go, what the climate conditions of this city are, and that is what we need to consider, so that the auction issues and the technical features of the contest are specific. Line 4, Athens Metro Expansion to Petroupolis, this project is under auction, Mr Arseni. It comprises the first section of 15 stations from the Bekus to the Goudis with a planned completion period of eight years from the award of the relevant contract for the construction of the project. The further expansion to the west of Line 4, that is from the Beicu to Petroupoli, with six additional stations, is expected to follow after the completion of this first section, and at the moment, the "ATTIC METRO" is gradually extending the preliminary studies, so we are at a very early stage. I would like to inform you that the tender for the award of topographical works is already under tender. The implementation time, as you quite rightly said, is eight years. That is what the convention, which will be signed for Line 4, probably, I hope, in the first half of 2020. I am probably saying, because there are also objection procedures in such a big competition, which are out of control of the executive. If you want my personal view, the underground railway projects are usually delayed and, I think, no one can, at this time, commit with absolute confidence that this project will be ready in 2026. Experience in Thessaloniki and Athens, when Line 1 and Line 2 were constructed, showed that unfortunately for many reasons that escape the capabilities of executive power there are delays, because we have issues with Archaeology, because we have huge technical issues, when we go and start such a great project. Therefore, Mr Arsenis, what I can assure you is that we will continue and will not interrupt, as is written in the press, the competition for Line 4 and will reconcile this huge project, Line 4 in 2020, so that this great task of expanding Athens metro can be started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u35	The second question will be discussed under No 1510/24-10-2019 by SYRIZA MEP Mr. Theophyssis Perkas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The procedures for setting up a Trade Center in the former Gonnos Camp". Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u36	Minister, I will not be tempted to comment on some of your answers to the previous questions. We'll have a chance. I'm going straight to the point, because I think it's very serious. It is about the creation of a freight centre, that is, logistics, the former Gonnos Camp in Thessaloniki. I would remind you that the previous government, because it had precisely recognised the development dimension of the logistics chain, had drawn up the National Pollution Strategy, which is a vision with medium-term objectives, which was supported by an action plan, namely a work programme, with concrete measures and milestones throughout the course of their implementation. One of the essential actions of this national logistics strategy was the creation of freight centres, where the country's production and commercial power will be concentrated, to produce high-value services, to promote combined transport and, more generally, a very development measure. Thus, in the National Savings Strategy, but already in 2014, the Trinity Field, as well as the Gonos Camp in Thessaloniki, had been designated by Law.4302/2014 as national priority freight centres. At the same time, there is also mention in the transport strategy of these two freight centres, but of course also in the National Strategy for Sustainable and Fair Development 2030, which recognises that freight centres are critical infrastructures and developmental tools. With regard specifically to the Gonnos Camp, some precursor work has been done, such as clearing by mines, missiles, etc., since the Second World War. Of course, there has been the first phase of the competition. We should now move on to the second phase, which will be binding tenders. Let me note that there has been intense interest. Already, three companies, 'INTRAKAT', 'METKA' and 'NAKOR' have declared interest. And we waited now that Thessaloniki really will acquire this development tool. Instead, in the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, we heard the Prime Minister announce that this Gonu Camp will become a Free Economic Zone. So our question is: Firstly, if the government really intends to go ahead with the logistics center at Gonnos camp. And, if not, won't Thessaloniki have a freight centre? Secondly, in what design - why did you also say before a project was announced, there must be a design, a ripeness - the creation of a Free Economic Zone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u38	In fact, Mr President, I would like to say that I am extremely surprised by the policy you have chosen to follow as Opposition. Anything you neglected to do as a government, you're coming now and you're swinging our fingers. That is why we come here every Friday, which the other ministers did not do, to answer what you say and to prove how out of reality it is what you are saying. I'm explaining about the Gonna getaway camp. Writing incorrectly that the Gonnos camp has been announced and nothing has been done. You come here today and ask us why we don't go ahead with what you planned. Because, Mrs Perka, you planned it on your knees, and that's exactly why we don't go through with it. So let's say some evidence about the Gonnos Camp and the "good" work of the Ministry's previous leadership. How many times have you extended to the pre-selection stage? Four times. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its After you saw that no interest has occurred, you extended it for June 29th. No interest again. Again extended for 20 July and another extension for 20 September. And from 20 September 2018 until July 2019, which we took over, absolutely nothing. That's the reality. In fact, when you took over the projects, what we have seen is that the GEOSE had not even proceeded with the appointment of a consultant to get the issues of final offers. Such interest you had for the work. Take the'successful' model of Triasios, which is an unacceptable contract, for which the European Commission and the relevant Directorates-General move us, and we are now coming to apologise for these issues. We are therefore bailing out the frozen Gonu project. And the Prime Minister himself made a commitment to this project. What we are saying is that the camp site is not enough to meet the needs of Thessaloniki as a freight centre, and the Prime Minister said that we need to design, establish what you said, a free zone exclusively for export-oriented enterprises. The companies that will settle in this area will therefore be exempt from taxes and VAT. Other such areas, as you know, exist both in the area and in the port of Piraeus and in Heraklion. So, at this stage, what we are doing is that we are in open dialogue with the institutions of Thessaloniki and we record your views. What I can assure you is that we are not going to follow the failed, the unacceptable model you used in Trinity I, and the process of developing a large logistics center in Piraeus is now stuck. It is shameful for a country to constantly apologise to the European Commission, because we are doing things that are not done in any other country of the European Union, namely changing the conditions of the competition, while the competition has taken place. These things are unacceptable and those who follow them understand how much the previous government and the administration of GAIOSE you have chosen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u40	Mr Minister, of course, I did not get a reply to the question. However, I would like to say that it is shameful for a country in 2015 that it has no design for freight centres, that the Triumph has left a land useless, the Gonu Camp, also with missiles and mines. In any case, if a government has failed to do so, and a settlement has been cancelled, you are being judged today. The first phase of the competition took place, the plot was cleared and the consultant should be recruited properly to go to the second phase, where there is interest by three companies. We are therefore saying that the question is very clear. Will the government go on to make a freight centre in Thessaloniki, the Gonnos Camp, which has been planned since 2014 and is in all strategic plans? I want to say one more thing. I've seen statements from the Industrial Association saying we don't care what's planned, but what the city needs. And who will judge what the city needs and what does the country need? These policies have brought the crisis. Everyone was distracting, and with the eye here, he was centering there, putting a Free Economic Zone there. It's not like that. I mentioned three strategic plans, which provide for a freight centre. The freight centres must be networks, connections must be made. If you want to make criticisms of oligopoly in a government within memorandums how it was even so far gone, do it, but today you are being judged. And the answer the world of Thessaloniki expects is: Will the design of Supply and Action Plan for Supply proceed? Is this going to be the second phase of the competition? Or are we going to talk about the Triumph and anything else, which has, of course, been answered on several occasions for this competition - I will not waste time - or will we go to a Free Economic Zone, which is a system which, of course, I think only Poland has on such an extent? I do not think there will be a European country in such a form. Anyway, that's not the conversation. The debate is: We are following a design and a government continues to do the work or is "strengthening" and rescheduling the design and, in this case, by the SGP's cheques, without a fundamental study of how the mathematical centre and this collection of all the productive power of the region and of the country are rendered, so that combined transport can proceed? He's moved on. Do you think we're late? Let's take it. Do it fast, you guys. But we need to have an answer if it is to be done or whether it will change the design and become a free economic zone, so we will have another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u42	Let us return to the world of the right speech rather than the fantasy. You are so much cut off on combined transport that, at your time, ERGOSE has made new contracts of 70 million. Congratulations! When in the days of the oppressed Samara - Venizelos government the new contracts were 1.2 billion. These are numbers that expose your government. We have reconciled Tithorea - Domos and all important projects to make this railroad the one to be. I agree with you that, if we are talking about our country becoming a logistic hub in Southeast Europe, we need to link freight centres to railways and ports. But you have not just done nothing, but you have followed a model that was tragic. And you want us to follow the model of the Triasius camp, which you're causing me and I'm going to tell you it's a scandal smell? Does it have a scandal smell, because at the moment, apart from the problems we have with the European Commission, anyone who reads the terms of the contract wonders how it is possible for GAIAOSE to sign such a contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u43	What are you going to do, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u44	How can you sign a contract, give it to a contractor and then change the terms of construction and quadruple them? And when we told you this in committee - you were not a Member, Mrs Perkas, and we told Mr Schhiza, who was at GAIAOSE and Mr Spirtzi - and that we would have problems with the European Commission, you laughed. Now, unfortunately, we are right about the country. So we tell you something very simple. We're telling you that the model of the Triumph you want to do at Camp Gonnos, forget it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u45	What are you going to do, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u46	We, at this stage, are in dialogue with the actors, because what is important and what everyone knows about Thessaloniki is the Gonnos camp. Therefore, the Prime Minister said at the moment that he will create a Free Business Zone model. I know the Left has a huge problem with the Free Trade Zone, with the private economy. Anyway, it's good to understand that we're living in 2021 that these ideas have left them behind in 2015. And because I know that you are sensitive to these issues, I urge you not to confront them. Four and a half years, unfortunately or happily, the model of Triasius did not work. Let's leave the big talk about the grand strategic plans and let's see how we're going to do the vision of the 2008 Karamanli government, when the 'COSCO' came in and gave this country the opportunity to become a real hub for products from Southeast Asia, when the opposition was on the streets, and let's see how we can make Greece an example for combined transport. Our view is, and you can disagree, that the model of the Triasy and what you went to do in Triasy was unacceptable. That is not what the European Commission itself says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u47	In general, another freight centre will you do in Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u48	Of course we will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u49	That's the end of the question circle. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western gallery of the House forty-two students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 21st Kallithea Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on to the next question cycle. Four questions will be discussed, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. The second question will be discussed under number 363/13-1-2020 in the first cycle of the Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Financing the health needs of Evia”. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u50	Minister, I'm starting my position on a point of order. We submitted to you on October 21, 2019, eight members of the SYRIZA of the Regions of Thessaly and Central Greece a question about the underfunding of their general hospitals. It has been three months without giving a concrete answer and may have been covered in particular by hospitals that I ask you about today, Chalkida, Kymis and Karystis. You'll tell us in your answer. What I would like to stress, however, is that these regular decisions by the Central Board of Health, where on the one hand we have cuts, on the other hand we have transfers to other regions, are only rational management. What do we hand over to you to cover the financing of the emergency needs asked for by the hospitals? We delivered approvals of 7m euros, which you made after your receipt of 5m euros, and when October came, which requested specific applications, you had downloaded them to 1.8m. You understand what it means in terms of management, particularly problems with acute forms, this cut. In October, therefore, you finally asked them to submit to you - after the timely question - their needs, where they eventually submitted you about EUR 1.7 million and what had been given before was only EUR 100 000 for the Hospital of Chalkida. So given what we've received as information, you've given some money. However, at least EUR 700 000, which was absolutely necessary, until the latest information I have received, have not been given. We expect, therefore, that the needs are too many and that the malfunctioning of these hospitals is a major problem for Evia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Apostle, first of all, I would remind you that the government has received the country's governance in mid- 2019. Therefore, a budget for hospitals was running and we were called upon to keep the health system up and to enable the hospital and other units of the country to function adequately, of course and fully by the end of the year, and we did so. This was because we were able to make rational use of resources and, where necessary, provide additional resources, human and financial, so that the hospitals could function and close the financial year smoothly. With regard to the Hospitals of Chalkida, Karystos and Kymi, global increases were made in Chalkida 730 thousand euros - the ones you are referring to have been provided at the Hospital of Karystos and 115 thousand euros at the Hospital of Kymi. In addition, all requirements for ancillary staff requested in all Evia Hospitals were approved to meet the needs of human resources. In any case, I must say that we had to ensure the financing and operation of hospitals by the end of 2019, and that is what we did. Of course, a new year starts, and we need to see with rational planning how we meet the needs of the country's structures so that we do not get to the point every year in September - October to run to meet the needs and deficits presented by the hospital budgets. That is why there must be concrete planning and a budget that meets the real needs of each health unit. For this reason, in addition to the increased appropriations for health, I must tell you that we are regularly following the operation of the units of the country with economic, operational, qualitative and quantitative indicators so that we can intervene whenever necessary and not reach the end of the year in order to meet the needs to ensure that the year is running smoothly. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] At the same time, there are other actions under way, such as changing the supply system to hospitals and strengthening the hospitals with rapid procedures for the recruitment of medical and other staff, as well as - as I have said several times and I am ending, Mr President - we need a permanent coverage of the vacancies that exist in the health system, and that is why we are planning to convert the posts of assistant staff to permanent posts of caregivers in the hospitals of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Apostleus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u54	Minister, the year is closed, but problems have not been solved. I'd say you made a partial needs cover. And I'm going to particularly focus on what you said, that you will monitor the course of hospital operation every day. So, because I am given the opportunity, I will tell you some problems that come and are outstanding ones that need to be solved, such as, for example, the functioning of the EAW. You know that Evia is a difficult prefecture both in terms of road network and, of course, distances. That is where we have a problem, particularly in the area of Liberia. You must definitely solve these problems. And, of course, when the funding has already been guaranteed - this process has gone ahead as quickly as possible, this problem must be solved as quickly as possible by the inability to staff the EAW throughout Evia. We have a second topic, too. You know that in November 2019 radiological machines were installed in many hospitals. And what is at this moment as a problem is that they cannot function, because there is no possibility for the specialist regions to sign up to operations. Is it possible that so much money has been spent, that the installation - which is very necessary - has not been done, and because there is no such scientist at regional level, cannot be signed, cannot function? You also said about another staff issue. Already since the beginning of the year, we have ten specialists' seats and we cannot understand why since all these procedures have been completed, no recruitment is taking place. There is a huge staff problem and these positions are permanent. And what I wanted to tell you is that there's no UFO to sign. Someone needs to find out from another region, because it is not possible to buy machinery and wait. Because, Mr President, you know what is in the basement of many hospitals from old machinery! We must not experience such situations in an hour where there is a great need. So we expect you to go ahead with the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u55	The Foreign Minister, Mr Kontozamanis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u56	Mr Apostle, as far as medical staff are concerned, I said before that we have changed the procedure a little, so that we can speed up the procedures for judging new doctors to come to the system quickly. In the next few days, the ninety-five posts of medical staff will be opened, and there will be programming for other posts not only of medical staff but also other staff. As far as machinery is concerned, let me not know that detail. Of course, we'll look into it. However, one answer I could give is that, when a machine is installed, the necessary operating and safety checks must be carried out so that they are assigned to the public safely and fully functionally. And I don't think it can get stuck in a health region. There are other agencies that can control this. There are other problems in the Evia Prefecture. It's a big bet for us to be able to run the new Chalkida Hospital. Of course, as far as the issues of the EMRP are concerned, we will go on recruiting staff. And there is also an operational plan for the reallocation of ESDP staff and forces at country level. Where appropriate, we will set up new stations so that there is full operational function and preparedness of the National Direct Aid Centre. And there are other issues, such as the issue of nephews in the Evia Prefecture. They focus mainly on Karystos and Istia, where there are kidney patients and we try to give solutions so that there is no movement of these patients into other areas and there is no suffering and can do the thing in the place they live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Undersecretary, due to speciality, the theme of radiation physics must be solved immediately by contacting "DIMMOCRITOS" to send you an radiation physics to do the standard radiation protection control. However, what has to be solved definitively - I now say as a radiologist - is that they cannot function - and they are operating from what it looks like there, Mr Apostle - radio-diagnostic machines without periodic monitoring of possible - seldom having been observed - radiation leakage. It is therefore not only for them to start operating but must at least immediately be in the region to control the machinery in operation. And because I know you, I'm sure you'll solve this right away. It has to be solved. To begin with, however, the "DIMMORITO" must send a radiation physics to see them. Now we go to the third with number 373/14-1-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The dramatic lack of personnel of the Lassithi General Hospital based in Agios Nikolaos". Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The San Nikolaos Lassithi Hospital, Mr. Minister, remains the most subordinated in the 7th Health Region with a fullness of officials in relation to even the poor organisation, close to 55%. Lacks of medical, nursing and other personnel of all categories and levels in anesthesiology, radiology, pathology, surgery and other clinics are huge. The problem is exacerbated by the departure of personnel to other health units, movements, secondments, pensions. In addition, we have shortcomings in traumatists, chamber assistants, technical service, administrative staff, where new retirement departures are coming up. The hospital operates in the safety margins with occupational decontamination effects of personnel, which are also due to a long-term absence of leave and leave, and is often the phenomenon of patient referral to other health establishments outside Lassithi. However, staff are also added to the staff of various contracts, who are living under continuous work insecurity. Indicatively from the eleven nominated members of the 2016 notice remained only one. These deficiencies have led to the suspension of the operation of regular surgery and the problematic functioning of clinical trials, the marginal operating coverage of SPCs, and only with the help of other sanitary structures. And thirdly, in the radiological boundary, where the CT scanner does not operate ten days each month due to deficiencies in specialties. The artificial kidney unit is housed outside the hospital, in chronic diseases, with all the risks of delay in the introduction of a patient from the dialysis in the hospital and with doctors, of course, risking. While provision has been made for the transport of the kidney unit to the flank of old blood donation, the necessary transport work has not yet been completed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And finally, they are the building problems of hospital equipment. There is no room, no parking space. The old wing needs maintenance and repairs, while the plumbing facilities are obsolete. The causes, obviously, of all these problems and their exacerbation are in the anti-popular policy of the previous governments. This policy, however, continues today, Minister, with sub-financing, health trade, based on the guidelines of the European Union and supporting the profitability of business activity. We ask you, Minister, what measures you intend to take at last to make permanent recruitment of a sufficient number of staff of all specialties, with full work and insurance rights, so that the needs of the population in the region can be fully met, so that all workers in the hospital in which they work with flexible working relationships - subsidiary, OAED - are permanently permanently permanently permanently permanently permanentised, and that no one loses their jobs. And of course, brave funding to cover the entire needs of the hospital. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, let me once again say what the Ministry of Health's leadership repeatedly emphasizes, that 2020 will be the year of hospitals. I say this, with a full sense of responsibility for the citizens of the country, but also because of the difficulties we face. As I said in the previous question, we have received a given situation in the middle of the year, we now have a full and clear picture. We know the situation. We have planned and have already begun to implement actions. 2020 will be a year in which citizens understand the results of our health policy. As far as staff are concerned, I would remind you that we have the four thousand contract workers through the OAED programmes, which we have secured in cooperation with the OAED Ministry of Labour and the OAED administration their renewal for another year, and we are trying to find a solution so that these people remain in the health system, giving extra molecules to subsequent notices. We have the positions of medical staff, which are also covered in the hospital to which you refer, in Lassithi, from the thousands of three hundred other staff to whom the procedures have already begun, at the Lassithi Hospital thirty. As far as subsidiary medical and other staff are concerned, as we have repeatedly said, they cover needs that exist or arise exceptionally and, of course, both in 2019 and this year, there are the necessary appropriations to meet these needs, but once again, I stress that our aim is to have permanent staff positions in hospitals, because the subsidiary system is a temporary solution, and unfortunately we are losing people, who are gaining an experience in the health system and then cannot be integrated into the system. Therefore, it must be understood that the more permanent positions we have, the less the contractors will be reduced respectively and the gaps will be covered and we will be able to meet the needs that arise. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Finally, I want to say that there is planning to upgrade existing infrastructures. We all know that most buildings in the National Health System are obsolete, and it is certainly necessary to upgrade them not only to energy, but also to real estate, and there is a concrete plan in this direction. And, of course, we must redesign - we are ready to present our plan - in terms of upgrading biomedical equipment to the hospitals in the country, because in this area biomedical technology the equipment is even older. Biomedical technology is evolving and we must follow modern trends in biomedical technology. We need to renew the equipment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u61	Finish, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u62	Yes, Mr. President. We must also provide the necessary health services to every citizen in this country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Undersecretary, your answer honestly doesn't cover us. If anyone did not know your quality and your political position and put Mr. Blonde next to you, he would observe exactly the same things. And I can tell you honestly that in April 2018 we had submitted exactly the same time to the respective Minister at the time of the SYRIZA government and the answer was without any response. I understand that you're following the scorched one. Workers have often submitted these problems to both the 7th Health Region and to the Ministry yours and to the administration of the hospital. In fact, a month ago the workers' administration had a meeting with the commander of the 7th sanitary district. They have gained sympathy, understanding, and you have made these promises today, but they are not enough. Or to say otherwise, what you said does not cover all the acute needs that the Hospital of Saint Nicholas has. The timely question came, therefore, because it did not cover us with the answer you gave to the simple question that we tabled on 11-10-2019 and which we replied two months later, namely two months later, which was actually an answer to what he did - look out! - the previous government. But what does that prove? It proves that you do not have what to suggest. You do not have any very specific proposals to deal with the problems of the Saint Nicholas Hospital and, of course, the hospitals in the country as a whole. It is proof that with wishes and general promises, unfortunately, your government, the Government of New Democracy, will also go ahead with the policy of sub-financing and remuneration of public health. I will only tell you a few facts to see that what you said is inadequate. In all the Lassithi Hospitals, only 55% of the organic positions of P.T. and T.T. nurses are covered, based on the agency. At Saint Nicholas Hospital only 42%. The permanent nursing and auxiliary staff accounts for only 46.5% of organic posts. There is nothing to be done, that is to say the agency. Safety and quality of service are at stake with the possibility of a mistake that can be fatal for patients. The odds of intrasombotic infections and many others are increasing. So, instead of going into massive recruitment of permanent staff, you say to cover the needs of workers through the OAED by renewing contracts. Is it possible for hospitals to function like this? You try to fill some of the gaps with recycling staff with flexible forms of employment. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] 20% of all workers in public hospitals work with flexible labour relations. The hospitals can't work that way. Of course, this results in job insecurity, with many economic, social and psychological problems, with scientific mutilation in literality, untreated valuable experience, difficulties in the functioning of the departments, precarious invention programs and ultimately deterioration of health services. In our view - and it is also demonstrated by the current position - the real goal of the government is to gradually relieve the state of responsibility for health financing and extend public-private partnerships to hospitals. On the issue of health...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Synatiakis, you have to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are no discounts, no promises or backup patches. We've got to stop this humiliation right now. Neither subsidiary nor contractors nor OAED nor other flexible labour relations are the solution. Gently increase funding, permanentize staff and you will see how the hospital will really breathe and work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u67	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, the Greek people have judged the work of the previous government and I think that under no circumstances can they compare what the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Health has done with what we have announced and done. I said - because you probably did not understand what I said in relation to OAS contractors - that four thousand people work in the health system. They've acquired an experience and they need the system. We have ensured that they remain in the system for another year and we want to give them a premium in subsequent notices so that these people are not lost from the National Health System with the valuable experience they carry. I also said that we want permanent jobs in the National Health System and not temporary solutions, such as the subsidiary medical system, and that is why we will transform the positions of subsidiary doctors into positions of permanent caretakers and doctors in the health system. In any case, it is not enough to say that we will give more money or that we will make more recruitments. Such money should be given on the basis of a specific definition and on the basis of the real needs of each region and the recruitments should be carried out in such a way as to meet the real needs of each region. You said - and we all agree - on the major shortages in nursing staff. There are shortages in other sectors and in other specialities. The question is how we can speed up the recruitment procedures for this staff so that it is readily and promptly available to the National Health System and that is what we are doing and we have proved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, I would like to table the workers' documents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u70	We are now moving on to the first 1965/15-11-2019 question of the circle of petitions - questions from Members of Parliament B2' Western Sector of Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Athens Barbara General Hospital of Western Attica". Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, good morning. The theme of this hospital unit, West Attica General Hospital "Agia Barbara", has dealt with parliamentary control many times, at least since 2012 where I am here. It's another unanswered question from November. First of all, the importance of this health structure - a hospital unit for the sensitive area of western Athens and West Attica, but also a part of Piraeus - is very important. This is an area where many of our fellow citizens live, many of which are not registered, because they vote in their villages, to say it simply. It is an area that we can say would serve even a million and a half. The general hospital in West Attica and the need for public care for the area where mattresses are - let's say - low is very important. The general hospital, therefore, of "Agia Varvaras" is a historic hospital. I will not go into the procedures, what was served since 1903 and how it arrived today. We all remember the period 1930-1935 that was carried over by the useless patients. Now the specific structure of these - those who are - is a rehabilitation centre that no longer belongs to the hospital. However, I will say that since 1995, the term ‘Agia Barbara’ has been added for the area in which it is located, operated and served until 2012 all levels of public health care. Unfortunately, since 2012, and then by decision of the then government with the movements of staff and nursing staff, it has been in closure, but it has been avoided, precisely because both the local residents and the local government of the wider region and the workers' struggles there have kept it open. Today, it is only in the field of external medical services and not in everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here I would like to say that since 2015 where there has been a government change, the hospital was actually transferred to Nice. There are still considerable external medicine, dentistry, physiotherapy, microbiological, while supplying the excellent microbiological of the hospital with reagents, which is currently a problem in supply. What I would like to say - and the shortcomings I will mention below - is also for the very important part of the kidney that works even though it serves patients from all over the West Attica, particularly low income patients or even in the most deprived persons and needs some interventions, which I will then say in my dentistry. What I would like to ask, Minister, is what is your vision? What is your design for this health unit? Will this hospital return to secondary care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u72	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, in the introduction of your question you make a historical regression, describing the path of the West Attica hospital since its establishment to this day. The fact is that at different times and in different social and economic conditions the hospital adapted its operation, serving the needs of the local residents. In 2011, he was interconnected with the general hospital of Nice, Piraeus "Agios Panteleimon" and in the period 2012-2015 we tried and made significant progress with regard to the necessary rationalisation of resources, ensuring the uninterrupted access of citizens to health services and the hospital of Agia Varvara was not an exception to the rule. Its restructuring and reorganisation was considered necessary. Today, the organization of the internal structure of its services provides for the operation of the medical service in four areas, pathology, surgery, mental health and laboratory. This hospital serves both the trunk hospital of Nice in Agios Panteleimon and at primary level the needs of the local residents, and it is certainly something that we will strengthen and support. Peak services are both the artificial kidney unit and the microbiological laboratory and this is demonstrated by the nursing movement recorded in both sections above. Among other things, we look forward to the full development and modernisation of the artificial kidney unit for the care of the nephropaths in both the Western Attica and the wider region, as well as the creation of a time centre for sufferers to deal with specific circumstances, so as to stop the uninterrupted stay and postnatal rehabilitation of the sufferers in large structures of the country and to decongested the system in order to make available beds. Of course, another thing that we are planning is the establishment and operation of a relief unit to ensure the quality of life and dignity of patients with life-threatening illnesses and has already started. This will be done by making use of the pathological clinics at the hospital in Agia Barbara and has already begun insulation of the building where pathological clinics are housed. In addition, we will strengthen the functioning of the external medical services with doctors of various specialties, strengthen the hepato-medical hospital, which also operates as a centre for a molecular diagnosis of viral hepatitis, and strengthen the laboratory sector. Therefore, the redefinition of the role of the hospital "Agia Barbara" is within the immediate objectives of the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and the Second Health Region, in order to meet the needs of the inhabitants of these areas. It goes without saying that there is a political will to do so, and the necessary interventions are already under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u74	Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr Minister, allow me to make specific reference to the current situation in the hospital. In 2012-2015 you said that you supported this unit. I guess the opposite happened, which I said in my prototype. If there were no struggles, the mobilisation of residents, local government and the wider area, the hospital would have been permanently closed. But I come here now: an artificial kidney unit. There is guaranteed money from the previous Regional Authority of Attica specifically for the recycling of water. This is something very important and I would like to know how this will go forward. Secondly, we talked about building issues. With the money of the Second Ministry, guaranteed, legalised buildings and buildings within this large area and with Law 4495/2017 urban issues were dealt with. And right now, with a secured pod, the restoration of the Pathological Clinic is moving on. And from what I learned Monday, work starts. That's good. It's something that was under way. Now I'm gonna say two or three things. First of all, you say that you will ensure the function of microbiological, which, as you said, for viral hepatites is perhaps unique in Greece. There is currently a problem with the supply of reagents, Minister, you must know about the molecular diagnosis of hepatitis C and, as far as I have been informed before Christmas, about hepatitis B. That is why we need to go ahead and resolve this. There's no eye doctor in the primary school. There's no HORL. There's no gynecologist. There has recently been an ancillary cardiologist, as far as I know, and that is good. On the other hand, there are forty-five unresolved orders for reagent supplies, as I have said, repairs of equipment and other such issues. So the issue is, at this moment, first of all, to strengthen the primary with the respective recruitments, the placements of doctors to serve the region. Because we have said that public health especially in this area is very important. On the other hand, however, the question is whether this hospital will return to the secondary level of care. Minister, I'm going to ask another question. Should the Ministry also consider an EKAB station in this area for decongestion and service, in essence, of the wider region of Piraeus, West Attica and West Athens? I would therefore expect some concrete steps to be taken, and for what I mentioned in relation to the shortcomings, to show, in fact, whether you intend to reopen this health structure that is so important. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Kafantari, this unit has never stopped working. And in 2012-2015 some attempts were made, as I said in my protology, to rationalise this hospital structure. The hospital of West Attica "Agia Varvara" is interconnected with the hospital of Nice. It provides secondary health services and I told you that our aim is for the hospital to serve the local population at primary level. Besides, as you said, there's the health center in the area. And, of course, our aim is to be able to contribute to the smooth operation of the Nice Hospital in order to dismantle the great movement that exists in that hospital in Attica. In no case, therefore, was the operation of the unit suspended. What you said about artificial kidneys, building renovations and workshops are issues that we agree with. I told you we're on our way. Because we have a new financial year, I believe that there is no problem with the supply of the reagents and the smooth operation of the laboratories. Of course, we will further strengthen the services provided by this hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u78	We move to the third with No 2014/19-11-2019 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Integration of the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Saint Pavlos" into development programs or the ESDP or the Public Investment Program (PPP)". Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, thank you. Have a good year. Minister, as you know, the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "Saint Paul" was established as a single legal person under public law after the merger of the first IKA hospital and the IKA hospital "Saint Paul" with the Presidential Decree 322/1985. Its operation was based on four hundred beds which were divided where the building of the "Saint Paul" Hospital and the Annex "Panagia" is now located. In spite of the legislative provision that we had passed when Mr Lykourenzos was Minister, which provided - with a universal positive view to all the actors involved and the inhabitants of the region - for the Panagia Annex to function until what we are now debating - to continue - the 2013 Memorandum Policies imposed the closure of the Annex 'Panagia'. And with that given, while there are four hundred organic beds, the currently developed are two hundred and twenty-five. The area of responsibility of the hospital has the Municipality of Kalamaria, Pylia - Chortiatis and the Municipality of Thermi - Thermaikos and is the nearest hospital in Thessaloniki. What are his advantages? It is the hospital's reliability as to the quality of the services provided, as it is a numerical description of the functionality and efficiency indicators in the report made by the hospital administration of 2016-2019, the geographical location of the hospital and, of course, the specialized services it provides. The objectives, I believe, of all governments - of course and ours - are to improve the services provided. What did we do about it in particular? We solved the property regime. You know, red tape... [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'm closing with my question, Mr. President. We improved the building facilities. We strengthened and extended the range of services with the development of new units and modernised biomedical equipment. There was this problem, Minister. When the ownership status of the IKA went to the ESS, the hospital "Saint Paul" was excluded, it was not within the law, so that neither programs nor anything for its expansion can proceed. That's what we solved. With big obstacles, red tape, but we solved it. My question, Minister, is this: Do you intend to continue the procedures so that they can be integrated into a public investment programme or the ESDP - there are previous studies, an update would help - so that you can move forward with the development of the additional two hundred beds that eastern Thessaloniki needs and total Thessaloniki need? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Amanatidis, thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to say that of course our intention is correct and good things that we have received, that we can maintain them, strengthen them and move on. The fact is that you have proceeded with the settlement of the property status of the "Saint Paul" Hospital, which can only be described as positive action. From there on, of course, we all realise that we must go further in order to strengthen the operation of this hospital. There were reorders on the sanitary map of Thessaloniki, such as the closure of the hospital of IKA "Panagia", which were added to beds, where possible, for operational reasons, such as the kidney unit, the urology, the neurology at the hospital of "Saint Paul". Here you are giving me the opportunity to tell you that we need to move forward with modernising and completing hospital agencies so that we have a clear picture of the services that meet, the needs and the vacancy of staff to be covered. From there on, to continue the work from where you left it, I must say that we are looking very carefully at the livestock expansion of the hospital. I would like to inform you that in order to integrate the hospital into an operational programme for the construction of new buildings, a regulatory study and a veterinary programme should be preceded. There has already been, for many years, a preliminary regulatory study, as there have been problems with the hospital's ownership status and its implementation has not progressed. Therefore, a new study should be commissioned or an update of the old according to the design of the Ministry of Health and the current needs of the hospital. Yeah, well, we'll move on. Also, with regard to beds, where possible - I said it before - the former hospital beds were added to the "Saint Paul" beds in order to continue the uninterrupted service of patients. However, I have told you that it is very important to go ahead, to complete, to modernise the hospitals' organisations in order to clearly reflect the operational capacity of each hospital unit. In conclusion, I can assure you that it is our intention to upgrade the services of this hospital unit. We consider it unacceptable to house the hospital services in containers, as is the case with administrative and technical services. This issue will be resolved. We believe that we should invest in the comparative advantages of the hospital, such as, for example, the functioning of the cardiological clinic with the modern coroner serving a large number of patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Amanatidis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u83	Minister, I keep from your answer that yes, you will proceed. As I pointed out in my protology, there was the old study, which indeed needs to be updated. The obstacle was exactly what we solved. I'm glad you'll build on what we solved. I also believe that, for the agencies, you will bear in mind that this hospital will be developed, that you will not, in other words, reduce organic positions from that hospital, because there is a prospect, obviously, as you have said, for the development of the hospital. We therefore need concrete action. Minister, we'll wait. The next period will wait for Thessaloniki. We tried with everything I told you - what we did - to upgrade the quality of the health services provided. We'll check you again for this, because it's very specific now. This case is at least seven years old, Minister. We put our bite on it, and now you can and you have your hands free to move forward. So confirm it again, if you want, that yes, you will proceed to this design, with study updates, etc. So this will also be taken into account for the body. I would also like to say to you that Thessaloniki needs a more comprehensive design of the health map - we, as you know, also proceeded for the paediatric hospital, where you need to pay attention - but also to proceed with the recruitment of staff where this is missing. You need to see the primary health care units again, which are very important and I think they solve many health issues. Allow me at this point to say two general things about what we in health have done, Mr President. In a difficult financial environment we faced health poverty as reflected by ELSTAT in the 2019 report, where unsatisfactory needs from 14.4% of the population, Mr President, in 2016 they retreated to 10.4% in 2018. Strengthening the public health system, meeting the health needs of all citizens, reducing inequalities were our policy in the time of our governance. Our aim, namely, was to address health poverty, rationalise the administration and finances of the ESS, the policy of medicine and the pilot introduction of a primary health care system, which I think you should strengthen it in Thessaloniki. We are, Mr Secretary-General, against the shrinking and seconding of health services in favour of the insecure private sector. We are defending public health, therefore, care, care. As far as this is concerned, I consider your answer to be positive, and here we will check you in the next few months. We can, of course, and help, because we have all gained, Mr Minister, and the institutions - such experience of this, which you will not believe if you see the files we have from Mr Lykourenzo, after Mr Adonnis Georgiadis and, of course, now Mr Kikilia. So we will help you in this direction in whatever way you need us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u84	The percentages of unsatisfied people's needs are as you said, from 14% to 10%. But it is good to remember another period, in 2004-2006, which was 3.7%, of the vast government of Costa Karamanlis. I'm just telling you about the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u85	We were not the ones who raised it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u86	You guys are watching everything, Mr. Amanatidis. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Amanatidis, we're all judged by the result. We are at your disposal at regular intervals to monitor, through parliamentary control, the actions that we are announcing and implementing the projects. Now, with regard to the situation you have given us, let me once again disagree with you. Unfortunately, we have received a system in complete collapse. I think that the picture that the health system presents today does not look forward to anyone's honour. Therefore, because health is above colours and above political controversy, I hope that - as with your question today - there will be a common place in actions that benefit the citizen, because the aim is to serve the world which must have access to all kinds of health services, so that we can improve the daily life of citizens' contact with the health system and the efficiency of the National Health System. I should like to stress once again - because I am very afraid that the opposition officer has not cleared it up well in his mind - that the current government supports the public character of the health system. We support public free health, but under no circumstances should we confuse the public with the state. The National Health System also works in the private sector and, of course, any partnership with the private sector is being established in order to improve the health services provided, to offer new, without any cost to the public. They are financial tools, which are used throughout the world in order to improve the health services provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u88	So, for the hospital, we're moving in the way I'm placed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u90	Good. It's over, Mr. Contozamanis. Next time, Mr Contozamanis, I will happen to chair - I now charge this as I did not have to - to listen to the timetable for changing hospital agencies. Because all these upgrades that have been heard today cannot be made by any government unless the change in hospital agencies has taken precedence. Especially in "Saint Paul", which I know very well, if the organization does not change, it cannot be upgraded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u91	Here's the backwards. This is the organization that's upgraded, and it's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u92	However, the new role needs modernisation. It has been upgraded in relation to the old IKA that was "Saint Paul". He's looking for rehab. For example, if they want to put radiotherapy, is there in the body? Oh, no! But I am not talking about St Paul, which I fully agree with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u93	Can I have the floor for thirty seconds, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u94	Do you have any news about the timeframe?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u95	On what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u96	Good. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u97	You are aware, of course, of the state and functioning of the health system. Let me tell you - you are also aware of this because of your institutional role - that we have legislated in the past few months on the issuing of hospital agencies by ministerial decision, so that there are no delays in completion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u98	Well, that's what you say. But when will this process end? That's what I want to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u99	Okay, we'll have clear schedules...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u100	Okay, next time, Minister. Thank you very much for your presence. You're always there, though. I have to say it. We are now continuing with the fifth under the number 358/13-1-2020 topical question by H' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Civil Protection on the subject: "Police arbitrary of the DIA Group against persons treated at "18 ANO". Mr. Eleftherios Economou, the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, will answer, who is also always present in the House. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall confine myself, Minister, to just describing the fact. It's Thursday, January 9th, Acharnon Street. Eleven people participating in the drug rehab programme, accompanied by those responsible for the program “18 UNO”, return pedestrians from the gym to the Psychological Rehabilitation Department. As you all know, this is part of their therapeutic programme. For reasons which we would like to know - I do not know if you know them - they are stopped for inspection. Needless to stress that escorts, in compliance with the suggestions, demonstrate all legal documents, explaining to the institutions the particular sensitivity of the curative programme. However, police officers are zealously conducting the process of physical control and verification, of course, with their hands high, have them on the wall, in the eyes of all strange passers and residents, while at the same time prohibiting escorts from communicating with the programme's leaders. This whole set of twelve policemen, eight officers of the DIA Group and four officers of the ACF. I described, Minister, very coldly, the fact that we can imagine it. Look at it a little: Fifteen people with hands up on the wall, turned, controlled by fifteen policemen. In other words, we had a normal anti-terror operation. I will not extend to designations, Minister, and to conclusions. I'm just gonna ask you: Have you been informed of the incident even after my question was tabled? Do you consider the picture I described as normal in the context of the normality that the country has restored? Do you believe that this image is interpreted as a knowledge of the police officers in handling such special and sensitive situations and, on the other hand, do you think that it helps in the work of such structures? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. You're always time-consuming. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the State Secretary, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of nineteen students and students and three attendants of teachers from the Juanne d'Arc Primary School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 9 January and around 10 a.m., on Acharnon Street 258, the policemen of the DIA Group carried out checks on thirteen individuals. This was a preventive action within the framework of specific actions to prevent and combat crime, carried out daily by the Attica Direct Action Directorate. In particular, the police officers of the DIA Group, seeing the above individuals move massive pedestrians, carried out their checks during which one of them indicated to the police accompanying the Psychiatric Hospital of Attica. It emerged from the document that he was the head of a meeting of the rest of the people, but that it did not appear on them. That's why the cops continued police control, as no one had the Police ID card. At the end of the police check and despite the fact that, as I said, no one had the Police ID card, all those who were in custody left because there was nothing at their expense and obviously because the police have understood the particularity of the healed. As far as the so-called strict demand for police officers is concerned, this must be interpreted as part of the overall cooperation between the Greek police and the various agencies and institutions against dependency substances rather than in a form of extreme and humiliating control. In any case, I would like to remind you once again that the priorities of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police include, among other things, the control of all illegal, irregular or inappropriate police behaviour. This is the case, both in the performance of their duties and outside the service. Furthermore, the defence of the authority of the institutions, such as the Greek Police, primarily dictates the internal investigation of any suspicion of infringements by its staff under the guarantee of the provisions of administrative and disciplinary legislation. Each case shall be examined with particular care and shall be charged as quickly as possible to the fullest possible speed. In this context, I can assure you, therefore, that this incident will also be the subject of an administrative examination by the Attica Direct Action Directorate through a preliminary administrative examination to investigate the disciplinary case and to establish any disciplinary responsibility of the police involved. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Finally, I would also like to refer to the press release of the Association of Psychiatric Hospitals of Attica, whose proposal to cooperate with the Greek Police for a life without dependency is particularly important and is being studied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u104	Mrs Sakorafa has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you will allow me, the last thing you have said, to overlook it completely, because all that you have said and mentioned, and the Minister has mentioned it too many times, has to do with the personalities of the people who are insulted and, finally, they never have to be substituted. That's a given one. I described you, however, the fact and actually expected to hear something little different from what your Ministry's leadership in combating lawlessness, doctrine "law and order" etc. And what he says. The scary - I would say - for society is that the whole scene of savage repression that Mr Chrysochoidis is developing is of the opinion that he owes it and tries, as he says, to pay it back to society. So I'm going to go through my findings. Firstly, you have not mentioned at all whether the police are being trained to deal with such specific cases so that, on the one hand, they can do their job properly and, on the other hand, help with the good functioning and effectiveness of such structures, which are, in fact, part of the ERC. In fact, this structure, "18 ANO", a few days ago, Mr. Kikilias visited it and congratulated it on its operation. Secondly, I assume that you can understand the tragic effects that may have such behaviour in our fellow citizens who give their daily struggle of disobedience, psychologically in a very fragile balance. And I will point out, Minister, that it is a oxymoral and paradoxical part of the state, namely the police, to attack another part of the state, namely public rehab programmes. That's absurd. In other circumstances, I would confine myself, Minister, only to these two findings. Unfortunately, however, the generalized concept of suppression condensed in the government doctrine 'law and order', in fact, guarantees excesses and diversions on the part of the institutions of order that go beyond and the more flexible limits of the acceptable. The zeal, which is often mentioned, cannot be regarded as self-declared, when, in fact, it justifies behaviour which directly insults social and individual rights, as in this particular case, which in theory protects a favoured society. This overall concept is extremely dangerous to democracy and social cohesion, but - I would say - for peace too. The worrying thing is that with your policy, you are creating a climate and a culture in Police that exacerbates the controversy, creating an unblemished breach between civil society and the institutions of order, while the moral automobile is the government. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] At the same time, you are arousing a peculiar perception of the identity of police officers with extremely worrying results, with the final sample, Mr Minister, the use of intervention by police trade unions in justice. To stress that we will try to stand up to these policies, I think it is self-evident. But you, for serving the police, also bear the full responsibility, without refreshingly, for events such as what I described today, which we discussed the other day with the director, Mr. Indar, his family, but also a lot of other things that have happened. So I'll be waiting with interest for your dentistry. And frankly, I would be happy, really, if I could delete even one negative of what I pointed out through your answers. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you too, Mrs. Sacorafa. The Minister has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u107	You will allow me to believe that this incident has been dramatized in a political effort by a section of the Anti-Population Party to manifest incidents of police violence. I am not going to follow you in your mind, nor to monopolize the sensitivity of human rights and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u108	Please. I said another thing. I said more and you'll answer what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u109	I won't follow you on this. Basically, the check was standard. The normal procedures were followed. However, in view of the objections raised, this incident I mentioned will be the subject of an administrative examination by the Attica Direct Action Directorate, through a preliminary administrative examination for the investigation of the case. But at this point and on the occasion of your question, I sincerely want to make an appeal. The police, with all its powers, are trying to combat the crime of everyday life to the maximum extent. Our aim is to create again a sense of security for the citizens, to leave the fear and threat of the evildoer from the neighborhoods of Athens and the major cities throughout Greece. In addition, our aim is to achieve greater efficiency in dealing with drugs. On this basis we sincerely call for Parliament's confidence and assistance in dealing with crime, in ensuring peace, order and protection of the lives and property of citizens. The targeting of police operations to deal with crime in the neighbourhoods of Athens by a group of MPs does not help. Police operations shall provide for preventive controls and locally targeted actions. It is a reasonable reality for this deterrence. Under no circumstances are they targeted or incriminate by substances, much more there is no specific order for this category of individuals. Let things not be dramatic and let us not create impressions that no one has to do with the reality and perceptions of the body of the Greek Police and the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. We are aware that the drugs issue is a very serious social problem and it concerns us all. Such problems are dealt with in a society together. All of us are needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u110	You will allow me to tell you, Minister, that you have not answered any of my questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u111	We continue with our second question under number 380/14-1-2020 of the second cycle of MP B1' North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Declaration of the commander of the Police Department of Excavations that there is a command from above, the police forces to attack civil crime, not criminal." The State Secretary for Civil Protection will then answer Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for, as always, being here to answer us. I'm moving on to my question. Minister, on Saturday, January 12, 2020, a delegation of residents of the district of Exarchia, in the context of a protest outside the Police Department for the crime and the uncovered action of gangs and criminals in the Common Criminal Law, who run daily undisturbed, in particular at Kallidromi Street and around the streets, met with the commander of the Police Department of Exarches. According to what was said in front of television cameras - I note - one of the residents who spoke with him, his commander said that there is a plan to hit the political and social crime in Exarcheia first and then the criminal one, adding that he is unauthorized for a change of design. Security commander said he doesn't have enough personnel. At the same time, Minister, who on the streets of the Exarchates are permanently platoons of MATs, which guard the bricks of buildings, which have by force evacuated from the conquests, as part of the campaign by the Minister of Civil Protection, to break the lawlessness at the same time, at the same time, day, night, morning, and night, the determined gangs are robbing, threatening, trafficking drugs, smuggling, caring and terrorising the inhabitants. No one is there to prevent them from continuing their activities and nobody seems interested in normalising the situation in the region. I would ask you, first of all, how are the images that people of the Exarches have on a daily basis explained? I mentioned them. Drug dealers, knives robbers, knives, to act undisturbed, a breath from the police department in the area, and under the look of men of MAT, who protect empty buildings. How does the reluctance and inability of police forces to intervene? Secondly, how does political crime stand when MATs empty the occupations? In addition, in what sense is a conquest a political crime? Is the political fight against lawlessness finally an alibi and a pretext of an authoritarian right-wing government, which seeks to alter the key features of the Exarchates region, that is to say, the thought, the question, solidarity, collectiveness and mind, to devastate Exarches from the inhabitants and visitors and to hand them over to investors and the Airbnb? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u113	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u114	First of all, Mr Gregoryiadis, I would like to reply and to recall that the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, taking into account the current challenges, has drawn up a programme of anti-crime policy, which is a central point of reference for all police services. In fact, the implementation of this programme is planned and aims at the effective development of networks and cooperation between the Greek Police with public and private social actors. So, with parallel and coordinated actions, there is a need for substantial intervention in various forms of crime, as well as in the factors and causes of crimes and all kinds of criminal activities. In this way, the current anti-crime policy is the most modern form of cooperation between the police and social institutions themselves. A part of society is, moreover, the police themselves, which unfortunately some people are forgetting or ignoring. As part of the implementation of this programme, the Attica Directorate-General for Police has every day developed a grid of actions of obvious policing, focusing on the prevention, prevention and treatment of all forms of violation. Implementation of these actions takes place in the area of responsibility of the Directorate-General for Police, in addition to the parallel actions of the operational teams (DIA, OPCE, etc.).), on a daily basis and across 24 hours targeted and systematic checks, but also specialised actions, pedestrians and on-board patrols, excursions, construction of workshops and control groups and a number of others. The aim is, on the one hand, to deal effectively with all kinds of infraction and, on the other hand, to create adequate security conditions for citizens. This is how the revised operational policing plan of the wider centre of Athens, which includes both general and specific actions, focusing mainly on addressing specific and specific problems, such as drug trafficking, thefts and burglaries, robberies, street petty, parade and others. Furthermore, I would like to inform you that today and in the context of the new Attica policing plan, a thousand additional two hundred newly recruited special guards are placed in the DIA groups, and that means that patrols in Attica will increase by 50%. I would like to point out at this point that in all cases of unlawful behaviour by individuals or groups, which carry out the objective nature of a criminal offence, the services of the Greek Police are carrying out all intended service and procedural actions, while informing the competent prosecutor, under the direction and orders of which they are acting. As to the results of the above actions in the region of Exarchates, and for the economy of time, I will submit a document with figures for the period from 1-12019 to 31-12-2019, from which one can see reality. In short, let me just say that we have a reduction, at that time, by 33% in the robbery, by 7.8% in theft of vehicles, by 83.3% in the snatching of bags and by a number of other offences. With regard to the now protest of the Exarchists and the allegedly planning commander of the police department to strike the political and social crime in Exarchia first and then the criminal law, I would inform you that on 11-1-2020 some fifty people were marched in the area towards the Exarchs. A five-member committee met with the commander, who told her that every effort was being made by carrying out continuous actions to strengthen the level of policing and effectively address the intrusive problems of infraction. There was no talk of the priorities of the ELAS nor of the existing operational plan in the region of Excavations. Moreover, the position of the Ministry and the Headquarters of the Greek Police is well known, which is to fight crime in the context of constitutional cheques. This is not what I remind you of. It has also been a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy, and that is what the government is doing. This was commanded by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, Minister, if I understood correctly, you tell me that the man from the five-member delegation of the 50 people, who were obviously not anti-powered, were residents of the Exarchates - you recognized it - is lying. He came out after a meeting with the commander of the Division of Excavations and intended to lie and things that the commander of the Excavations did not say. It seems very paradoxical to me. These people are neither appointed nor partisanly positioned. They're residents who got tired of being in danger in their homes. He has no reason to distort the commander's words. I would also remind you that these words of the resident and committee have been recorded on television cameras. It's at everyone's disposal. This is my first comment on your answer. My second comment is this, Minister. If the incident described a few minutes ago just here with the psychiatrists and their escorts is as you say, that the police really didn't do anything wrong, just did their job, then why is there a police investigation on this case if she did her job right? A third thing I want to say is that I don't know that there's still a thousand men in the DIA group. What we indulge in you as the political leader is not that they are few, they are working in the wrong direction, is that they are trying to convince us that Greece is being plagued by political crime, when it is clear - everyone knows it, poor, rich, medium-sized - that our country is being beaten by criminal and civil crime. And the last thing I have to say as a years of actor - thirty-six years, let me say - and knowing Mr. Indare personally - the director I mean - and I must inform you that the entire artistic community of this country distinguishes him from the mildness of his character, his peaceful mood and his good habits. It is a light that something is wrong with some of the instructions you or the ones below you have in the police authorities. It's a light light. Let me not go to another issue. That's enough. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u117	Minister, you have the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, it really deserves on the basis of the text of Mr Gregorgiadis's question to trace the duplication of a portion of citizens and a number of Members of Parliament, and in this case what is happening in the region of Exarchy. We read from the text of the question the description of a nightmare landscape in Exarchia: "Day and night, morning and night, devastated gangs rob, threaten, trade drugs, share thieves, break cars and terrorize residents. No one is found to prevent them from continuing their activities and no one seems interested in normalising the situation in the region." And then, when you ask the other question: "Did the political fight against lawlessness be an alibi and a pretext of an authoritarian right-wing government that seeks to alter the key features of the Exarchates, thought, questioning, solidarity, collectiveity, questioning, intellectuality and devastate them from its inhabitants and delivering them to investors and Airbnb?" As you can see, this approach has a twin that ends up with a monument of mistrust, because if the presence of the police in the region is not strong, then the first nightmare picture will apply, and otherwise, which the police are attempting, it will serve the second malicious advisability. I would like to point out to Parliament that the Greek police and the Ministry of Civil Protection will continue without being affected by such mistrustworthy approaches to do their job. The only objective remains to restore fully the security and social peace conditions to the precedently unintentional lawlessness of the Exarchates, and at the same time I would like to call on the honourable Member, Mr Gregoriadis, and the party of Meragiadis, to study the evidence I have put into an attempt to return to reality in relation to the nightmareing world that he describes. I also wish to call on Mr Gregoriadis to show some patience. Preventing security problems are not solved by magic wand. The actions implemented within the framework of operational planning to prevent and deal with crime, not only for Exarches, but also for the other neighbourhoods of Athens, already produce better results. At the same time, I hope that your permanent question, Mr Gregoriadis, perhaps some other MPs for the Greek Police and the Ministry of Civil Protection, will take a calm and well-considered view of the results of the operational actions and be rationalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u120	If you're kind enough, in a minute, tell us what the staff are made of, see if there's any reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u121	Yes, Mr. President. The Minister just a minute ago described my question as ill-faithful, he called me bad faith. I remind you that I am here not as a natural person, but as a Parliamentary representative and I exercise parliamentary control, as I have a constitutional right to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u122	That's a designation. Article 68 shall not apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u123	Isn't it? Are you serious? Does a Minister say a parliamentary representative who asks a timely question bad faith and mistrust his question? He did not answer my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u124	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u125	He mentioned pieces of my question. It's not a way...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Gregoryde, may I answer you, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u127	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u128	Mr Gregoriadis, whether or not the answer is complete, you and the other Members are judged as well as the Greek people. That's how questions and answers are asked. But in accordance with Article 68, there are two cases where staff may be: when there is excitement or when the contents of the speech are altered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u129	I would therefore reply to you, Mr President, that I consider the behaviour that he calls me ill-faithful. If the evil-faithful thing about you is praise...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u130	He didn't say you were a bad guy. This is a crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u131	He said my question was a bad one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u132	All right, let's go with the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much for democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u134	We proceed with the fourth question under number 382/14-1-2020 of a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "HYTHY/KYTHTS Gender Expansion in Zone A protection of Mount A. Agaleo". The Secretary of State for Environment and Energy, Mr. Dimitrios Economou, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the subject is well-known, it is this great crime committed against the inhabitants of all Greece, but especially of Athens, and especially of the West Athens, called HYTY/HYPES of Florida. This uncontrolled practical landfill, year after year, management will always close and never close. And the argument always remains the same: “What are we going to do about the waste? What can we do? Shall we close the Tribe? And what is the solution?’ And that is the excuse to prolong and prolong this environmental crime, the crime against public health. And to always extend for a short time, for a semester, for a year, and finally this extension also lasts for the next term of office of the government and the next government and the next republic. Some small extensions are always carried out illegally, extensions to saturated cells, with a risk to workers, public health and the technical capabilities of the area, but also legal extensions, otherwise, to areas that are not allowed to be protected. The earlier extension took place in a protection zone which was declassified for reasons of public interest. Once again, the extension that the region is discussing and in practice has decided - and Mr Patoulis continues to make the decisions - is again in Zone A of absolute protection. Will we have her declassification again? How long are we going to break common sense? How much are we going to violate the concept of the environment and public health? I want your commitment that there will be no declassification, that there will be a date to end the Tribe, and that anyway, your term of office with the Tribe will not end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u136	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u137	The importance and the criticality of the Gender Cyber Cyber Problem is given, you don't question it. The Prime Minister has described HYTA as a big time bomb. The Minister, Mr Hatzidakis and the relevant Secretary-General have visited HYTA in their respective positions, so the seriousness of the problem is not questionable. But let us see what happens. These problems are not solved in one day. The question of what we can do is a real question, when you have to do something, you have to ask what it is you can do. In this case, the radical solution to the problem requires procedures and projects which require time. They can't be done in one day or six months or in one month. The former district minister had a design, which provided for four waste management sites in Attica. This planning, which requires a long-term process, during the previous period of Mrs Durou, has not made any progress, has stopped. So we received a situation in which a project that takes time to implement was completely inactive. So what do we do? We are moving on to a new design with modern data in full compliance with the provisions of European Union legislation and national legislation, but this cannot be implemented immediately. However, we also need to do something immediately, because the Ghost HYTA is finite and if he cannot accept new waste for some time, Athens and the rest of Attica will be filled with waste in the streets, so something must be done immediately. What has been requested by the Graduate Link to the Gender CYTA is not an extension. Capacity increase has been requested within the limits of the already approved area of KYTA. There is therefore no question of extending beyond the limits of the already approved area or extending within the protection zone A, that is to say, a new extension. Only demand has been made and environmentally approved to increase tonnage. The increase in capacity will cover the needs by about October. By October there is nothing else to be done, so we are necessarily doing this immediately and at the same time starting medium-term planning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u138	Here, Mr Arsenis, please, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Secretary, so you commit that neither now nor in future will the protection of Zone A be ceased in order to be extended. I understand you can commit to protecting Zone A. The second point is that Mrs Dourou, who has said in a public communication that the Race will be closed and the last action is these illegal extensions, but today's administration, Mr Patoulis, have said that they do not want the Race and that is why they will make an integrated recycling system, a reduction in waste and composting, so that the waste that needs to be buried and our proposal is to be buried locally in each area. But here, we have a problem. Since the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over the administration until now, the recycling system has collapsed. The wastewater treatment plants of West Athens with the anti-Maastrichts of cleanliness I'm talking to are waiting three hours outside the sorting centres and recycling centres. In Heraklion and all Eastern Crete there is no recycling anymore, it has collapsed completely, there is no recycling centre. The situation is dramatic and worsening. So, if we were to have a hope that we are going to resolve this issue, we should firstly have the development of recycling, source-sharing and composting, which is not happening. You haven't put a date on which the Tribe will be closed. Tell us you're gonna shut it down in a year, that you told us it was hard in three days, two months. Put the Gender close-up date, the target, announce the public in order for us to be able to then check whether the administrative measures will implement the objective and be helpful to that course. There is now an absolute suspicion, established on the basis of historian, justified that this government and that of the district government will simply end and that of the district ruler and tell us: "What to do with the Race, we have no other solution" and the perpetuation will continue to be this place in western Athens, the Half-Greece. This cannot go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Look, if we get to the end of the four-year period and are in the same situation, those who blame us will be absolutely justified, but at the moment we are at the beginning of the four-year period. In order to solve the problem, as I said, time really takes. The time shall not exceed four years but shall not exceed six months or twelve months. For this medium-term plan, therefore, the revision and the national waste management plan and the regional waste management plan have already been launched. This is progressing quickly and will soon have been adopted. A key choice of both national and regional is the great enhancement of recycling at source. That will be the case. Recycling has already improved at source in some areas, but in particular real actions can be implemented after the completion of these two waste management plans. In other cases, to which the earlier design had been implemented without the overthrow made in the case of Attica by Mrs Durou, we already have results. Let's say, in Ioannina it is known that a waste management unit is now operating with the PPP. In other areas, where designs had not been overthrown, after four years or three years, modern waste management sites were acquired. So, here too, we believe and are sure that within the four-year period we will have concrete results. Incidentally, however, I should like to tell you something else, because you have also asked another question about the protection of the Mount Aegleo, which you are now putting in the specific case of the Gender HITA. We're starting to update the n.e.c. I've said it before. I said it would happen. The money has already been found and we are starting to assign a study to it. I also said that this will be done with full transparency, with consultation as wide as possible and as closely as possible through cooperation between all forces and outside Parliament. In the context of updating the protection of Mount Aegleo, there will certainly be very specific measures, not for the non-expansion of the Gender, that is for granted, but for the relocation of the old HYTA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u142	I would like to inform the House that the fourth question under number 353/7-1-2020 of the first cycle of the President of the Greek Solution and MP Larissa Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The operation of illegal NGOs in Greece" will not be discussed in the light of the fact that the Minister, Mr Mitatakis, was sworn two days ago and is not ready, the Deputy Minister, Mr Koumoutsaskos, is absent abroad and Mr Chrysochoidis no longer has the competence once and is addressed to the Minister for the Public Order, so he will return. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before entering the legislative work, I would like to make the following comment: Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, by letter to the President of Parliament, dated 16-1-2020, states: ‘Governmental change’. Mr. President, We have the honour to beg as you tell this House that: First of all, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 5/15-1-2020 Presidential Decree published in FEK 5/2020, Issue I, accepted the resignation submitted by the a) George Koumoutsas of Spyridon from the position of Deputy Minister of Civil Protection and b) Panagiotis Mitakis of Antonios from the position of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and were relieved of their duties. Secondly, with the number one. 6/15-1-2020 Presidential Decree published in FEK 5/2020, Issue I, was appointed: a) Panagiotis Mitatakis of Antonios, at the place of Minister of Migration and Asylum, and b) George Koumotsakos of Spyridon, at the place of Deputy Minister of Migration and Asylum. The Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u143	In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a communication here. The Ministers of Culture and Sport, Education and Religion and Social Affairs submitted on 16-1-2020 a draft law: ‘Integration of Directive (EU) 2017/1564 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017 on certain permitted uses of certain protected works and other objects of protection under copyright and related rights for the benefit of the blind, the blunt persons with other problems of reading literature and amending Directive 2001/29/EC on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Furthermore, the President of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of the Change Movement and its party MPs tabled today, on 17-1-2020, a proposal for a law entitled 'Re-allocation of normal 13th pension'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being toured in the report 'The Parliament of the Greeks'. The one-way stations of almost two hundred-year-olds" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-nine students and students and two educational escorts from the 2nd General School of Sweet Water. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Regions on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 January 2020 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on principle and on articles. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u145	The House has agreed. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the electronic registration system will be opened by the end of the first two rapporteurs, with a derogation, of course, if necessary, for someone who will be delayed, as has been the customary prevalence. Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou has the floor for 15 minutes. Here, Mr. Dermenjopole, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union has created extensive uncertainty and major turbulence in the European political scene. The fact that in the last four years, continuous extensions have been made to achieve a definitive agreement for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union demonstrates in the clearest way the complexity of the project and the historical dimensions that it receives from the European Union for the first time in the history of a Member State. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom is a huge failure for Europe, as it loses the third largest economy on our continent, as well as a state with a huge cultural footprint internationally. At the same time, because of Brexit, favourable conditions are created for strengthening populist movements in a number of Member States that wish to further harm the cohesion of the European structure. This threat can only be tackled effectively by launching a comprehensive political dialogue between the European institutions, the governments of the Member States, but also civil society, to address the structural weaknesses of the European Union. It should be understood to all of us that if the Union cannot offer convincing solutions to a number of issues, such as dealing with illegal migratory flows, maintaining economic prosperity and cohesion, as well as defending the Member States from external risks, it will be faced with solvents which will be particularly difficult to manage in the future. As is quite natural, the evolution of this debate also concerns Greece directly, as our country's participation in the hard core of the European Union is a strategic option, acceptable to almost all of the political system. The existence of an effective and strong European Union could be a multiplier of power for Greece and a pillar of stability for our unstable region. Returning now to the core of the debate on the Brexit bill, our government has quickly shown reflexes. Already, since the first days of taking responsibility for the country's government from our resignation, the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intensified Greece's preparation, so as to minimise the impact of Brexit, both on the national economy and on the daily lives of Greek and British citizens living or visiting our country. In this light, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in finally operating to achieve better coordination of the state apparatus, submits to Parliament a draft law aimed at consolidating the relevant legislation, systeming the regulatory framework and lifting overall uncertainties as to what will apply until the UK exits from the European Union, either with or without a withdrawal agreement. Now that the bill is presented in the first two articles, Articles 1 and 2, the Government regulates the rules governing the entry and exit of British citizens from the country and the registration and residence of their own and members in the event of the UK leaving the European Union without a withdrawal agreement. In other words, the right to stay in our country is granted to the British citizens who are already resident or established until the date of departure, to the British citizens who will be established in Greece in the period from the date of departure until 31/12-20, and to those who will arrive in Greece after 1-1-2021. This is where the amendment - an addition to Article 1 proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, establishing the business invitation, business investment, a new visa policy, which has already been adopted by several members of the European Union and which facilitates the granting of Schengen visas in the event of an invitation to take part in meetings, conferences or events of a commercial and industrial nature. This initiative is fully in line with our basic pre-election proclamation for the immediate need to attract foreign investments, while at the same time significantly strengthening the extroversion of Greek businesses. I am convinced that this arrangement will have a positive impact on the Greek economy, and we can assure this House that all the necessary arrangements have been made, so that the entrepreneurial invitation will not be exploited by persons who can harm the public order and national security of the country. Moving on to Article 3 of the draft law, the Government regulates in the event of the United Kingdom's naughty exit key socio-security issues for British citizens and their family members legally resident in Greece. Thus, for a transitional phase of almost one year from now or more specifically from the date of departure of Britain from the European Union to 31/12-20, the Greek State applies for all branches the fundamental principles of equal treatment, the calculation of periods of insurance of an employed or self-employed person, from which benefits arise, the assimilation of income benefits, events or circumstances, and the export of benefits. Article 4 of the bill stipulates that, in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union without a withdrawal agreement, full nursing and medical care is provided for British citizens and their family members, as well as for those who have been subject to the legislation of the United Kingdom until 31/12-2020, provided that they are registered or are to be registered in the registers of the institution of their place of residence in Greece. Finally, access to public nursing and medical care facilities at the same cost for those citizens of the United Kingdom are temporarily moved and legally entered into Greece. Article 5 of the bill provides for the recognition of British driving licences held by either Greek citizens living in the United Kingdom or British citizens who do not have their usual residence in Greece. In particular, they are given the possibility of driving in Greece in the event of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union without the withdrawal agreement. There is also the possibility for British permit holders of usual residence in our country to make use of these up to 31-12-2020. In addition, British licences may be exchanged with Greeks until 31/12-2020, while certificates of professional competence and training permits issued by the United Kingdom after leaving the European Union and until 31/12-2020 are recognized. Article 6 of the bill takes particular care of issues relating to tourism, a sector of strategic importance for the Greek economy, which will be particularly affected in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom without a withdrawal agreement. That is why the Government regulates the business status of natural persons who are citizens of the United Kingdom or legal persons who have their registered office in that country and who may, for the period up to 31-12-2020, carry out business- tourist activities in Greece under the conditions and conditions laid down for natural and legal persons under the law of the European Union. Specific arrangements are laid down in Article 7 of the draft law to ensure the stability of the financial system and to protect investment. In particular, credit institutions are allowed to provide services to customers established or taxed in Greece until 31/12-20. For example, those institutions and organisations may offer investment services, settle and settle transactions on the basis of contracts with their clients, which, of course, have been concluded before the date of departure, participate in trading venues as a member or as a main negotiator, participate in joint ventures and auctions on the primary market, as well as act as direct or indirect members for payment and clearing systems. New services and activities, i.e. after 31/12-2020, to new or existing customers will be prohibited, unless the renovation and management of financial positions that have expired and it is considered necessary to renew them, in whole or in part, with the same counterparty. The time limit of 31 December 2020 also applies to insurance undertakings established in the United Kingdom which carry out direct insurance activities in Greece, either through an establishment or cross-border, before the date of departure. Such undertakings may not enter into new insurance contracts or the creation, renewal, extension or resumption of insurance cover provided for in contracts concluded before the date of departure. Reinsurance undertakings established in the United Kingdom which operate in Greece before the date of departure may continue these operations until 31/12-2020. Insurance intermediaries established in the United Kingdom that are active in Greece under the freedom of establishment or freedom to provide services before the date of departure, shall be undertakings established in a third country after that date. The period of 31 December 2020 provided for in Article 7(1) may be extended or shortened, as well as the scope of the Article limited or extended by a decision of the Minister of Finance, issued on a joint recommendation with the Bank of Greece and the Securities and Market Commission. Finally, all the undertakings mentioned above are obliged to provide sufficient information to the competent supervisory authority, customers and insured persons respectively on the scheme for the provision of services and for the insurance contracts after the date of departure. Article 8 of the Legislative Act allows for transfers of civil servants and recruitment to the services of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which will be entrusted with increased controls to combat the phenomenon of smuggling, protect the public interest and provide better services to both citizens and businesses. Article 9 of the draft law regulates specific issues, such as, for example, recognition of professional and academic qualifications, not covered by Union law, and which could create problems, if the United Kingdom leaves the European Union without a withdrawal agreement. These cases will be settled by common decision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the relevant Minister. Finally, Article 10 of the bill stipulates that if the revised withdrawal agreement enters into force, the rights of the citizens of the United Kingdom and of the members of their families are governed by the provisions of that agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative initiative, our country is shielded by the negative effects that will arise in the case of UK exit without the existence of a withdrawal agreement. At least in this case, the State showed predictability, organisationality and effectiveness. That is why we must not hesitate to give credit to the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has brought about an extremely difficult and demanding process. It is our wish, Minister, that pragmatism and pragmatism prevail, both in the UK government and in the representatives of the European institutions, so as to avoid a naughty Brexit, which will have negative consequences for both parties. It is also a given priority for our government's foreign policy that building with the United Kingdom is a mutually beneficial strategic relationship, worthy of the historical ties of our two countries. Ladies and gentlemen, giving consensus on foreign policy issues, as well as voting in favour of legislative initiatives which are commonly accepted problems, is a sign of the maturity of our political system. That is why I hope that this bill will benefit from your support and will be voted in favour of all Parliament's wings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u147	The rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Theodora Jack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, following Boris Johnson's prevalence in the last British elections, it is now obvious that, despite the recurring events in the House of Commons last period, the vast majority of the British people want Britain to be removed from the European Union. This attitude has deep roots in the dominant ideology, both in the British elite and in much of the public opinion, which perceives Great Britain as a great power, as a great empire, with colonies around the world, which always saw the other European countries as subordinate, economically, military and commercial. Indicative of this is the fact that the United Kingdom has never been a founding member of the precursor of the European Union, i.e. the European Coal and Steel Community, set up in 1950, in order to economically and politically unite European countries, with founding members then Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. At the same time, Great Britain is aware of its role in the geopolitical chess board as the link between the United States of America and the rest of Europe. In this sense, she has always considered that, in order to perform her role properly, it should be politically independent. That is why it has never shown a sincere interest in being attached to the vision of European integration, in the sense of federal Europe. On the other hand, it has always seen Europe as a large market in products and services, and for this reason it has joined the Community 1-1-1973 at the time, the European Economic Community, otherwise the common market, in its first enlargement since it was set up by the Treaty of Rome in 1957, along with Denmark and Ireland, bringing the number of Member States up to nine. It is true that the views on European integration have always been minority in both the British elite and the public. In this context, the path towards European integration followed by the European Union itself, which remained a neoliberal concept of free market and competition, and did not go ahead with matters of deepening democracy within it, so that the European people feel the European government, namely the Commission, as a foreign body, facilitated Britain's non-inclusion into European integration. In addition, the very poor and slow management of the Eurozone crisis, which has triggered high unemployment and low growth rates in all countries, has made the British economy with its particular features, most of which is non-participation in EMU, feeling and believing that it will achieve better at the level of economic performance and that it has no one, but no one at all to attach any more to EMU policies. It would be my omission not to point out that this fact has been exploited by populists, as well as by Eurosceptics in all the parties and not just by conservatives. And so the position for Brexit was consolidated. The Brexit for the European Union means, firstly, that it has lost the bet to have the size of both economic and geopolitical policies that gives it a large country, such as the United Kingdom, to its commercial and economic competitors, that is, to the United States and the Far East countries, China and India, with what this means to the ongoing trade wars and geostrategics. Great Britain is the first country to leave the European Union and this is an extreme situation, since its founding Treaty does not even provide for a withdrawal procedure for a Member State. This can encourage and open roads and appetites for separatist tendencies in other Member States on the difficult path of European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware that the political systems that give their members the right to express their disagreements and to incorporate them into them are resistant and superior as governance structures from systems without any flexibility, in which the possibility of exit is the first and last option. The European Union, if it wants to win its future in European integration, rather than move the handkerchief in the countries that want to leave, will have to find ways, processes - I would say - tormenting the different views within it, expanding participatory democracy and the institutions of representation and at the same time making its public policies more effective. I hope and hope that Brexit will operate exclusively in this direction, namely towards the enlargement of democracy within the Union and increasing the effectiveness of European policies and solving the problems. It is my opinion that the most decisive criterion for achieving this objective is that European policy should not be uniform for everyone, not 'one size fits all', but that it should be drawn up on the basis of the criterion of subsidiarity at the best level, that is, that level which is concerned with the problem and which will have the best effect on its resolution. For example, if the problem concerns two or three countries alone, the European Union's policy must be aimed only at them and not at the twenty-eight Member States. In this sense perhaps our country and other European Union countries would be better faced with the crisis in the euro area and the problems that have arisen because of it. Perhaps it is an opportunity, in fact, to leave Great Britain, for the European Union to proceed with the completion of the European vision and move on to fiscal union, that is, the economic union, with a Minister of Finance and the Eurocrat, at a time when Turkish provocation and international tensions have emerged, in the creation of which the United Kingdom has raised strong objections. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of Articles 121, 122 and 123 to 128 of Law 4604/2019, which the Greek Parliament had voted on with a view to the imminent agreement of 31-3-2019 and, as was seen at the time, with a view to the agreement of the European Union on the withdrawal of Britain from the United Kingdom. The provisions of the bill regulate the rights of British citizens and British legal persons for a number of issues, such as residence permits, socio-security issues, medical care, driving licences, tourist business in Greece by British natural or legal persons, banking activity and the others up to 31-12-2020, the date when the transitional period ends after the new departure date of Great Britain, which has been identified on 31-1-2020, during which Britain's relations with the other twenty-seven Member States will remain the same. If, until then, a withdrawal agreement between the European Union and Great Britain is reached, the more specific arrangements will apply, as expressly provided for in Article 10 of this Legislation. Otherwise, the relations between Great Britain and our country should be regulated by bilateral agreement, which will be signed with each other and which will apply from 1 to 2021, if there is no further extension of a transitional period. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece cannot but fully respect the United Kingdom's decision. However, as soon as possible, a number of important issues need to be dealt with bilaterally with the United Kingdom so that the relations between the two States will not be adversely affected after the forthcoming withdrawal. The United Kingdom is traditionally one of the most important economic partners in our country. Bilateral relations extend beyond trade, in areas such as tourism, shipping, investment and financial services. I will first talk about trade, about the impact of the upcoming Brexit on trade. There is a general estimate of the devaluation of the sterling against the euro, which will cause a number of revaluations mainly in the products imported into Great Britain and exported from our country. Let me say here that for the time being we do not see any underestimation. On the contrary, we see a strengthening of the sterling against the euro. Let me note here that 30% of Greek exports to the United Kingdom are food products, namely food and drink. 21% are medicinal products, chemicals, plastics. 13% are machinery. 10% are mineral products. 5% of textile products and 9% of them are in other categories. It is estimated that there will be an increase in customs duties and charges by at least 20%. There will be an impact on bilateral trade of around EUR 3.5 billion, with a reduction in exports, as well as bureaucratic, customs and new charges, depending on the type. The concern of all enterprises is to provide as little as possible for the cost of trading and to remove any bureaucratic obstacles to trade. Particular weight should also be given to the protection of products of designation of origin and geographical indication and to the non-implementation of additional duties, in particular feta. There must be provision for the operation of the Greek tourist market. In the tourism sector, our country is one of the British popular recreation destinations and accepts every year about two million tourists. The arrivals of tourists and visitors from the United Kingdom are estimated to be negative, mainly for two reasons: firstly, because of the fall in British income, as I said, due to the estimated devaluation of sterling and the parallel rise in inflation. Secondly, due to the possible changes in the relevant visa procedures. And in this case, from the Greek tourist business always in cooperation with the services of the EOT, advertising and public relations should be developed and with the services of the United Kingdom and Ireland, with the aim of consolidating the perception of the importance of the United Kingdom market for Greece, to how welcome British citizens are as tourists in our country, but also to maintain active interest in Greek destinations. The Greek-owned shipping in City - which is a major activity, since at least sixty Greek companies have representation offices in London, which are active in both the British and the international market - are one of the sectors that will be affected. There will be problems, as Brexit will reduce the profits of shipping companies by the estimated devaluation of sterling, the possible slowdown in international trade and the increase in fares, but also the benefits for Piraeus and maritime support professions of around 6.5 billion euros annually. There is also an opportunity for sea repatriation. In other words, new tax incentives should be provided for the installation of logistical offices in Piraeus and then other tax incentives for the operation of these logistical offices. As regards the investments now: The details of the Enterprise Greece for Greek investments in Britain indicate that their stock in 2015 amounted to EUR 623 million. More important are the productive investments of the ‘BIOHALCO’, ‘COCA-COLA’ and ‘Plastic Thrace’. Also, several Greek companies have established subsidiaries to import and wholesale their production from Greece and other countries. There is also a strong Greek presence in the retail sector, a trend linked to the increasing number of Greeks living in the United Kingdom. Finally, the presence of companies of Greek interests in the field of technology and services is also worthwhile. For example, I mention the 'UPSTREAM', 'TAXIBEAT' and the RES, with more important of them being 'BIOSAR', 'MITKA EGN'. On the British side, a significant number of British companies have invested in a variety of areas, such as telecommunications, retail trade, tourism, financial services, while the private investment sector in the real estate sector is also interesting. Changes will also arise for Greek students in British universities, for residence visas, for tuition fees, for work permits. And according to UK Higher Education Statistics Agency data, the academic year 2017-2018 studied in the UK for undergraduate and postgraduate studies ten thousand thousand thirty-five Greeks, occupying the fourth position among the countries of the European Union. Also, according to data from the service of seventeen thousand four hundred Greeks attended the same academic period of British universities in Greece, occupying the first place within the European Union. Greece's important objective should be to achieve the non-increase of tuition fees for Greek students at the University Institutes of Great Britain. Finally, following the legislative improvements made at the second reading of the bill in committee, and in particular the removal of the requirement of Brexit without an agreement, for the appointment of permanent staff to the subordinated customs services of the country, we consider that all of the two seventy-seven permanent staff recruitments within 2020 and the hundred and fifty recruitments of the participants of the 2017 CSCE notice, the procedures of which were already under way, will normally proceed. Positive is the fact that the report by the General Accounting Office of the State deleted the expenditure forecast of EUR 4.9 million for the establishment of personal positions and, in addition, the recruitment of up to a hundred persons under a fixed-term private law contract of up to eighteen months. In particular, it referred to the previous version of the report, which was accompanied by the report of the bill, as submitted to the House, that these recruitments could take place in order to address any exceptional staff needs, which may arise as a result of the forthcoming withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union, in the event of the procedures being non-inflationary, with regard to the transfer of staff. I believe that the data are quite well known and therefore the administrative needs are measurable and clear. Since the planned planning for permanent recruitment is finally implemented in practice and these recruitments proceed, any needs will be met. Finally, there is a positive attitude to the amendment you tabled on the new type of travel visa called 'Business Visa' for visitors for professional, scientific, etc. The aim of this new type of visa is for citizens of third countries to be able to participate in conferences, exhibitions, meetings, etc. without following the usual bureaucratic visa procedure. The process will pass through here and they will have to submit the printed invitation of Greek citizens, taking responsibility for their hospitality. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Greek Government should seek even more forcefully to satisfy all the Greek interests over the next period, whether there is a Britain's withdrawal agreement with the European Union or not. I would even say that the Qualified Opposition is willing to contribute with all its forces to the part of the demanding bilateral negotiations they will follow. I would like to end by pointing out that it is the interests of the European Union and, above all, of our country and the rest of the twenty-seven Member States to make the effort, so that in the transitional period, which ends on 31-12-2020, there will be an overall agreement on the withdrawal of Great Britain and the European Union, because otherwise we will experience the phenomenon of prevalence in the European Union, as regards the relationship between the Member States and the United Kingdom, twenty-seven meters and stations, as well as the other Member States - members of the European Union remaining there after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Municipal School of Lower Achaia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The special speaker from the Change Movement, George Arvanitidis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has many peculiarities. First of all, because it concerns the exit of a country from the umbrella of the European Union, and that is why the issue of Brexit's progress is, I believe, to be high on the agenda of both the Government and the new President of the Republic, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, following her election, which, as it turns out, will be on the agenda with a large majority of the Greek Parliament. Secondly, because negotiations are still under way and we cannot predict to the full all the dimensions and consequences of the management of this situation, this bill does not give answers to all the changes that are expected to take place. There is an attempt to have a programming process, but there will be a need for systematic monitoring of the course of the negotiations step by step. Greece, our country, has every reason and interest to monitor very closely how this new relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union will eventually be established, because possible parts of the trade agreement and the new ones, now, of economic and other ties, to be acquired in order to formulate similar relations with other countries, such as Turkey in the future. However, whether this withdrawal is by agreement or without agreement, we need to prepare properly and in good time. The third specificity of the bill has to do with the United Kingdom itself. The United Kingdom was and will be a sui generis case of commonwealth. A special category of state organization on its own, which always wanted and wants to define itself in the world charter and its alliances on the basis of its own, special features. This in itself has always caused a discomfort to friends and partners. On the other hand, this self-confidenced attitude showed deep devotion and trust in its own institutions and powers. And that is reasonable, since the United Kingdom had developed solid administrative structures since 1988, which have lasted for three hundred years. On the other hand, however, it lost all developments and seemed unable to adapt to the modern data and responses of the new era, and so it had already lost the glow of the empire, the industrial leadership of new technologies and, of course, the gloriousness of the past of mighty sea power. In this historical light, the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union should be universally respected and not to give more dramatic tone than necessary, but not to underestimate this development at all and what that means to the European Union. We need to see it under the well-known dimensions that are formed, bearing in mind the three peculiarities that I mentioned about the post-Brexit era. All stakeholders and officials speak with reservations about the situation tomorrow and how it will be formed. However, it will be certain that nothing will be the same at economic level for the whole of the European Union. It is therefore very clear that we will be faced with questions in many areas, such as financial insurance, tourism, exports and imports, shipping, trade and many other issues. We're dealing with an interstate divorce. The state that leaves the common European home has many issues to deal with with with those who remain behind, but there is still no clear framework for resolving disputes and regulating their relations. And it is not just this difficulty, that is, the issues to be regulated, but we also have the individual issues of each state, which must be dealt with in bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom. We should also manage serious security issues that will emerge from Europe's new architecture. This is because no one disputes the role and usefulness of the United Kingdom in European security, when multiple conflicts are under way and affect our country, Cyprus and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that this bill is necessary to regulate the Greek-British daily life in the next period. I therefore believe that the diplomatic relations between the two countries need to be strengthened so that, at the same time as the regulation of our economic and socio-political issues, we can also demarcate a new era of Greek-British friendship, cooperation and security of peace and stability in our wider region. Ladies and gentlemen, we must show strategic readiness, political and diplomatic courage, so that we can get out of this change. Appropriate assistance should be provided to staff, where necessary, at the relevant directorates and customs offices. A number of issues need to be regulated and emphasised in areas of Greek interest. Topics such as students and the recognition of professional and academic qualifications, the presence in Greece of English businesses and investment schemes, as well as in general of ensuring a smooth and operational transition for citizens, services, goods, commercial and business life. Clearly we will face problems in our daily transactions, which we will certainly be called upon to settle. Obviously, we will have issues in exports, in tourism, in currency exchange rates and in the possible economic imbalances that will arise because of the difference in the euro with the sterling. The Government, in cooperation with the European Union and the internal stakeholders, must ensure that in the final assessment there are no additional costs and technical barriers to trade. This concerns mainly the world of business and tourism, as the Scientific Counsellor of the General Confederation of Professionals and Trades in Greece, Mr Vaticiotis, pointed out in committee, since one of the points of contact of small and medium-sized enterprises with the United Kingdom was, in principle, tourism. We have as a country about two billion euros in tourist inputs from British tourists in Greece. Our country is among the three largest tourist destinations for the British. So we all realise that any reduction in the rate of tourist interest by the United Kingdom in our country will obviously dismantle public revenues and tourist enterprises in our country. The issue of tourism therefore poses major risks and opportunities. The risks relate to the fact that flows may be adversely affected due to the possibility of depreciating the exchange rate of the sterling against the euro. Of course, the difficulties that will arise from this for the British themselves may ultimately reduce their purchasing capacity and availability for travel and recreation. Here, then, we must prepare ourselves in time as a country and give tempting proposals to the British public so that we do not just lose tourist flows, but increase them. The relevant Ministry should create the conditions to keep and increase the number of approximately three million British tourists visiting Greece every year. So, before the gates, we have the tourism bet, and that bet should be won. We also have a serious issue concerning the insurance intermediaries. If they do not specify the framework they are concerned with, it can cause discoordination in the Greek market, as the President of the Hellenic Chamber of Deputies pointed out to the committee and the President of the Hellenic-British Chamber of Commerce, Mrs Kalliani. Perhaps the issue of the list of financial instruments and activities, by which financial sector companies can continue to provide up to 31-12-2020 to existing customers, to clarify and clarify now to prevent misunderstandings on the part of financial institutions. This, Minister, obviously needs clarification. I think that you can see it because other countries, such as Germany, have done so, which have been more specialised in certain issues relating to financial matters and have not left them for the future in the adoption of ministerial decisions. In any case, as I said, we should be vigilant and look at taking advantage of us, Greece, as early as this Brexit transition, give incentives to install, attract to Piraeus, to our country, companies looking for a base within the European Union. Obviously, we can make our country a pole of attraction for the post-Brexit era. To this end, the amendment establishing the business invitation and establishing a specific procedure for the invitation to participate in meetings, conferences or events of a commercial and industrial nature shall be put in place. Ladies and gentlemen, since the whole debate on Brexit, we are sure that we are at the beginning of a new reality: a new reality for the United Kingdom, a new reality for the European Union. I believe that sooner or later, the illusory perception that has prevailed in the United Kingdom, that, with their departure from the European Union and with isolationism, all problems, inequalities, refugee, unemployment and the problems that the citizens of the United Kingdom have considered due to their participation in the European Union will be solved. Sooner or later, costs will be paid more by ordinary citizens, as would Greece if Grexit had been caused. And here is the bet of the real progressive forces, away from populism and short-sighted tactics: to work and propose measures and policies to reduce inequalities within a redesigned Europe, not by building up walls and returning to barren nationalism. Europe needs to redesign the roadmap of unification, improving its effectiveness. It also needs to see the mixture of free economy and social cohesion of its policies, overcoming the incomplete trade union, integrate the black holes in its geography, such as the western Balkans, into the European family, in so far as these countries are ready and able to respond, and finally, redefinite its relationship with the difficult neighbours to the east, such as Russia and Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen, the decade that we just left behind, between 2010 and 2020, began with the debate on Grexit. Grexit thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people, but also the constant European orientation and the reforms that our prolongation has made and we have supported from whatever seat we have passed, it has not been a reality. On the reverse is a reality that the new decade starts with Brexit. History certainly does not end here, as it did not end in 1989 or 1990. Britain always has two Janus faces, but it will at least be half-devoted to Europe, notes writer Simon Jenkins in his book 'A short story for Europe'. Europe's future history remains to reveal the path that this relationship will take between the United Kingdom and the European Union. I close, Mr President, by saying that we are voting in favour of this bill and hope that we will receive regular information from the Government about the results of the Brexit course, but also about the overall impact on the Greek economy and the uncertainties arising from Brexit in many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u151	The Special Buyer from the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Another expression of the major contradictions that occur both within the European Union and between the European Union and other imperialist centres is Brexit. These unscrupulous objections, which have over time been expressed in such organizations, which have, of course, been established in order to serve the interests of the multinationals, have deteriorated in recent years and are even more acute as a result of the difficulties in the reproduction of capital, the overcompensation of capital, which are looking for new areas of profitability and which are objectively in conflict with each other. The deterioration of the position of a number of states in the imperialist chain as a result of unequal economic growth and within the European Union has also strengthened the centrifugal trends that have led to the selection of Brexit. Of course, that was an option serving the interests of a strong share of the capital of Great Britain. At the same time, it also serves more general plans for weakening the European Union. This is why, with so much warmth, Brexit Trump and other expressionors of competitive imperialist forces were in favour of Brexit. This option, of course, is not a way out for the people's interests, because it does not at the same time overthrow the basis of the economy, which remains capitalist and therefore hostile to satisfy the people's needs. The debate that was triggered around Brexit was characterized by a great effort to save ideologies in which the European Union's promotion as a one-way path for the country was dressed in previous years. They break down everything that was passionately supported by both the maintenance forces, social democracy and, of course, by the so-called 'European Left' for our common European home, for the Europe of the peoples, who, of course, have nothing to do with the true nature of the European Union and the very purpose of establishing it. The aim is to facilitate monopolistic groups through the well-known freedoms of movement of capital, services, goods and workers. Its character is that it also imposes the cracking of the rights of workers, of the peoples in general and does not change with any management mix that is followed. That is why you are seeking to safeguard the European Union's honour, by putting responsibility on the policy of austerity implemented during the period of the international capitalist crisis since 2008, which, you say, has been annulled - the so-called 'European acquired' and the European structure itself. You are presenting these options as a wrong policy of the European Union, a mix of management that did not come out of them. This reinforces - you say - Euroscepticism and centrifugal tendencies. Why do you say that? Do you not know the character of the European Union? You know him, of course, but you want to hide him, to cultivate deceit in the world that at some point the European Union can change, become more progressive, more philosophical. Forever! You are conscious of the fact that wage smash, the dissolution of labour and insurance rights and all the anti-grassroots measures taken in previous years, were aimed at shielding capital in crisis situations. That is why they have been supportively supported by all the civil governments of the Member States, conservative or so-called progressive. It was not an exception to this confession. You see 90% of the European Parliament's decisions are voted on almost unanimously by conservatives, liberals, social democrats, greens and by Euroleaf, of course, the Left. So the European Union, not only is it not going to be more prologue, it has not been nor can it become a Europe of the peoples, but the more competition is intensified, the more reactionary it is. More and more it turns against workers' rights, gains more aggressive, imperialistic features, becomes even more in a fortress, in a prison for the peoples of the European Union themselves, but also in total for the peoples of the wider region. And these intentions of the European Union, for which, of course, the JRC had no doubt, were recorded in the most emphatic way in the reports on the common foreign and security policy discussed in the European Parliament yesterday. What did these reports include for the interests of the Union? People's protests. I have been uncovered to include in the dangers for which both military and other preparatory measures are being taken, popular demonstrations. The enemy of the people is at the highest risk. And underneath this disgrace the MEPs of the New Democracy and the Change Movement have signed their signatures. Even in this he did not dare SYRIZA to vote clearly and he preferred to vote white. Of course, this report does not come as lightning in hunger. The ground has been set for many years with the many references to the fight against radicalisation and to various covert descriptions in documentaries of the European Union and NATO. However, it has already been translated into concrete measures of repression, plagiarisation and other, such as those included in the terrorist and in similar European or non-original legislation. So you are trying, and on the basis of the developments that Brexit has sparked, to accept, the popular consciousness of reactionary changes that have been taking place for years within the European Union. In relation to the bill under discussion, we do of course consider it reasonable to have some preparation measures for any consequences that will follow the exit of Great Britain from the European Union. It is necessary to regulate a number of issues mainly related to the residence of British citizens living and working in our country. In this sense, we agree that there must be care on the part of the Greek state for the protection of workers, students or those of British citizens who live in Greece. After all, as a JRC we claim this care not only to be for the citizens of the European Union, but also to extend to the citizens of third countries who live and work in our country or want to work in it. On this basis, of course, we agree with the provisions on these specific issues, namely accommodation, health care and insurance, with regard to the people of Great Britain in our country. A lot more, of course, there must be, with the government's responsibility, specific commitments to protect the rights of Greek workers and students living in Great Britain respectively. There is already great uncertainty about matters relating to both their work relations and their rights, as well as issues relating to the teaching and the conditions of study of Greek students. So we need to take care to ensure that at collective level basic issues are ensured for the Greeks who live in Great Britain, such as the following: No change in working conditions on the occasion of Brexit. It remains, of course, a request to stop the categorisation of workers according to their country of origin. It must be ensured further, that there will be no change in the teachings and conditions of Greek students in the British universities, that public health safety continues and that no private safety is imposed for access to health structures. We say that Greek immigrants and students should not be allowed to be registered by the British police, that insurance contributions to pension funds already granted should be established, that there should not be a visa for Greek immigrants and students in Great Britain. Nor should there be any additional financial burden for procedures for identifying or reaffirming their status or study. There are similar issues that already arise and need to be regulated in relation to the certifications that workers in the building sector have to take, for which, as a JRC, we have also tabled a memorandum on the particular demands that have already been made by these workers. There is a problem for workers in building professions who do not know English in relation to the certifications they have to receive in Great Britain, because there is neither a translation into their preparation material nor a examination of them. In the case of the worker's green card, which is translated into 10 languages, the Greek is not included. Even for this service there is a significant financial burden for those workers in need of interpretation. We therefore believe that there should be care to ensure free translation and interpretation services, but also to teach English to all immigrants without conditions. We cannot, of course, say that we share your own concerns about the armoring of business groups from the consequences that will arise from Britain's exit from the European Union. In fact, they did not hesitate to take the opportunity of SYRIZA and the Change Movement to propose measures to attract shipowners with new tax exemptions, as you say. But there's nothing left for the shipowners to pay so far. The prerogative of taxation keeps it only for the populace. It is really a challenge for such proposals to be formulated in the face of the heavy tax burden which the populace has so far had to bear. Finally, I would like to make a point about Article 8 in relation to the regulations on customs services which have already been and independently of Brexit in recent years. We believe that their support is imperative. However, this aid must be made with permanent staff and stable employment relationships. There was already a forecast for 2020 for a competition for two hundred sixty-four posts of customs officers. However, we believe that the measure of the transfers introduced by the Government in this bill cannot meet the additional needs that will arise from Brexit, because it requires workers to have specific characteristics so that they can fulfil this role. In this respect, we also agree with the points made by the Customs Office Federation, that there is a need for permanent staff, but that must be covered by workers with a permanent and stable employment relationship. Direct needs may in the first phase be met by the participants in the competition concerned, a new competition may be opened on the basis of the vacant posts available, while the transfers should only be used in addition, where necessary, on the basis of the needs already created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos, is now called in Stepma. You have the floor, Mr. Villardo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen - those who are here - importingly we would like as a party to welcome General Hufftar. It is something that the President of the Greek Solution asked for many months ago, without unfortunately being heard, as was the case with the EOZ. It is, of course, a pretext today, because Greece was not invited to the Berlin Conference, again substantiating that Germany considers us to be its protector, but certainly better than nothing. We only hope that the Prime Minister will handle the matter properly and not with a so-called veto as in the case of Skopje. In today's bill, now, on the exit of Britain from the European Union, I have to say that it is only rough and focuses on a part of the issues that will arise after leaving the European Union, as far as Greece is concerned, as well as the consequences for its economy, and unfortunately it does not quantify it. Furthermore, it seems to be an interim arrangement since it does not mention the measures that will be taken after the end of the transitional period at 31/12-2020, especially in the event of non-agreement. We will analyse the consequences for Greece, we will only refer to articles where we object, and in the end we will give a more general picture of Brexit, noting that we have submitted sources in the Minutes to the committees that preceded it. Starting by the citizens, according to the UN, in 2019 there were fourteen thousand two hundred sixteen Greeks in Britain, while in Greece twenty-three thousand five hundred three British. However, despite UN figures, applications for residence in Britain from Greeks amounted to fifty-seven percent at the end of November 2019, while on the same source in August 2019 there were only twenty-nine thousand nine-sixteen applications. In only three months, therefore, the number of Greeks who applied for a stay in Britain has doubled, which means that they either had not submitted applications waiting for developments or increased those who want to leave Greece, substantiating that our economy is still not going well at all. In any case, it seems that no one believes that Britain will be destroyed by its exit, but on the contrary it attracts even more Europeans. However, according to a study by the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, between 2010 and 2016, 50 thousand Greeks migrated to Great Britain, most of whom appear not to want to return. The first issue we have to deal with now is Community funding, since Britain's exit will affect the social budget, because Britain is making a net contribution. Based on a study by the European Parliament since 2017, its consequences have been estimated at EUR 10 billion, while only in the Common Agricultural Policy budget at EUR 3 billion, with Greece losing EUR 500 million in a total of EUR 2 billion of agricultural subsidies. It is therefore about 25% of our agricultural subsidies, so we must ask ourselves how the amount will be compensated. Next important issue is tourism, where according to data from SETE in 2018, 2.9 million tourists visited Greece with an average cost of EUR 658 and a total of EUR 1.9 billion plus indirect revenues. This was about 9% of our tourist arrivals or 11.9% of the direct revenues of EUR 16.1 billion, arrivals that may be affected by Brexit and a solution needs to be found. Perhaps it is an opportunity, however, in the negotiations between our country and Great Britain to promote the idea of health tourism, medical tourism, welfare tourism and seasonal tourism, which, according to a study by the 'DIANEOSS', can only be achieved from well-being tourism with the creation of a hundred and seventy thousand jobs, in five years' time. The third issue is trade in products, but trade between Greece and Britain accounts for only 1% of our GDP, 3% of our exports and 2% of our imports as a whole, with a small deficit at the expense of our country. There will therefore be no major consequences, although the issue of customs duties must be investigated, which, at the end of the day, will be significant, particularly in vehicles 9%, in footwear 10%, in clothing 12%, in processed foods 20% to 35%, in cereals and meat from 45% to 50%. The European Union has, of course, appreciated GDP losses as a result of changes in trade and the output scenario, which are estimated for Greece below 0.5% of GDP. At service level, however, trade between Greece and Britain is important: EUR 4.9 billion or 2.8% of our GDP in 2015 with a deficit for Greece, so we need to be very careful. Next theme is the capital flows, which are estimated to have fled 10 to 15 billion euros from Greece to Britain in 2014. Here it needs to be explored how they could return to support our economy. As far as investment is concerned, Britain does not seem to have as many in Greece as Greece in Britain, mainly concerning residential markets, since it is estimated that between 2010 and 2012 they were invested in the London real estate market of 300 to 340m euros, while they have three thousand two hundred Greek homes there. Of course there will also be investment in securities, such as bonds or shares, while Greek shipping has a significant presence in Britain, which also means that the impact of Brexit in this sector should be analysed. On the other hand, a significant number of British companies have invested in our country, such as VODAFONE, DIXONS KOTSVOLOS, GLAXOSMITHKLINE, BC PARTNERS and others, who do not know exactly how they are recorded. It should therefore be investigated what will happen in the future as well with these businesses. Last thing we need to deal with is the control of the refugee flows, which seems to be more stringent in the framework of Great Britain, and which means that refugees will be caught in Greece. Furthermore, there may be risks from British jihadists who want to leave Britain either because of Brexit or because of their involvement in the battles of the Middle East or in the conduct of terrorist acts. Let us not forget that in Greece there are now many American bases - we have given everything - which are aimed at these people. In the individual articles, now I object to saying: Article 1 extends a transitional system of free entry to and exit from work, ensures security in the movement of the population to and from Great Britain. Our question here was what will happen in the case of criminals or illegal immigrants. Is there going to be a passport check? Has there been an intensity of the flows, as recently observed in Calais? We didn't get any answers. In Article 3, in our view, the application of this article is unfair to the Greek insured. In particular, the provision invokes the principle of equal treatment. But how can we talk about the equal treatment of two citizens who have worked in different countries, with different regimes, different circumstances, etc., but who, for example, claim the same pension from a State without having worked in it and for this? It is therefore unfair and abusive to pay the Greek insured for the pension of a third-country citizen who did not work in Greece. In Article 4, it is paradoxical: ordinary British citizens who will enter Greece legally after Brexit will have to cover their health at their own expense. On the other hand, the stateless, refugees, migrants, etc. which at some point had been subject to UK law and are now in Greece will be entitled to free medical treatment. We obviously disagree with the special protection provided by this article to the stateless, refugees and immigrants, since the bill should only concern British citizens, not cases of people who have been legally designated as stateless or refugees by non-Greek authorities. In Article 8, we do not understand and do not understand the relationship between the ADI and the Brexit arrangements. Ultimately, we do not support a foreign service that is not controlled by our state, such as the AIA, how much more so in terms of grants from operating expenses by recruitment and transfers. We recall that AIA was established in 2016 as an independent authority, just as in 2016 we were obliged to establish the excess and transfer all our assets there. In Article 9, in particular with regard to students, as referred to in paragraph 3, recognition of qualifications or diplomas shall be regulated by a joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Education. However, there is no precise answer about the Greeks who are studying in the British universities, such as, for example, the question of tuition fees, which we do not know whether they will remain as they are or whether they will change. However, according to information from Britain's Higher Education Statistics Agency, the academic year 2017-2018 studied ten thousand thirty-five Greeks, occupying the fourth position among the countries of the European Union. Also, according to the same source, seventeen thousand four hundred Greek students attended the academic period 2017-2018 parts of British universities in Greece, occupying the first place within the European Union. You are not giving a specific answer here as to what will happen in the future. Finally, the greatest concern for Greece arises from the disruption of monetary exchange rates and the stronging of the euro against the sterling, which means that Greek products currently exported to Britain, including tourism, will automatically become more expensive, losing to competitiveness. At the same time, imports of British products into Greece will become cheaper, so they will increase, worsening our trade deficit. Therefore, Greece needs a detailed plan to deal with the turbulence, especially in the case of a tough Brexit, because in the bad economic situation that is found as the most bankrupt country on the planet there is absolutely no mistake. In the third and final part of our report, we shall refer to the very fact, considering it top of the historical and political perspective, after having decided, both by the citizens and by their representatives, that they should leave the European Union, to which Great Britain entered in 1973. One of the main reasons now for which the citizens voted for Brexit is that they want to have greater control of migration flows. The second cause is the conversion of Europe into German, which should concern all Europeans and especially us Greeks. The third cause is the policy of Mercantism in Germany, which it imposes outside the euro area at the low euro exchange rate due to the debt crisis in countries such as Greece, while in the eurozone it maintains the wages of its employees under their productivity. Thus, it increases its exports, reduces its imports and produces beastly surpluses. We note that the surpluses of one another are deficits, which means that Germany lives against us. So Europe certainly has no future, which the United Kingdom seems to have seen first. Now, according to statistics, in a population of fifty-two million people in Britain in 1992, the migratory influx was very large, especially from the Eastern European countries, following the enlargement of the European Union and then from the others after the outburst of the debt crisis. In particular, its population in 2015 reached 65,1 million, i.e. increased by 13 million in twenty-three years. As far as its position is concerned, on the basis of which the migration flows in Britain have significantly strengthened the supply of labour and caused the reduction of wages, particularly low wages, has been confirmed by a number of economic studies - we have already tabled them in the Minutes - while competition on the property market has increased, resulting in the rise of rents. Immigration therefore contributed significantly to the vertical decline in the standard of living of the British, especially in the middle and under-income classes, while it imposed the use of public infrastructure, such as transport, hospitals and schools, with the latter showing a large proportion of students with an immigrant background. If anyone were now studying what has been written in recent years, especially by the German media, it would give him the impression that the British will even be at risk after Brexit. Something similar, of course, had also been mentioned by the British Treasury before the referendum, where he warned of the disastrous consequences of Brexit, stressing then that immediately after its positive outcome British citizens should count the worst. However, despite the fact that in 2017 more than two years had already elapsed, this scenario was not even confirmed to the minimum. In any case, in order to predict the consequences of a Brexit, one should know, firstly, precisely the exit agreement and, secondly, the real economic relations between Britain and the European Union, as well as their importance. Even if there is no agreement, however, the transactions in Britain and the European Union will not be uncontrolled, since they will then be determined by the rules of the WTO, although in particular the products and services are much less, which is for the benefit of the European Union in particular. According now to an investigation, the analyses carried out in fourteen countries, which are dealing with the European Union with WTO regulations, prove that not signing an agreement with the European Union is better than a bad agreement. So the WTO rules are a real alternative to Great Britain. In conclusion, it is clear that the European Union, Germany better, which is behind it and completely controls it, has tried in every way to make the lives of the British, especially the exporters, in order to force the country to sign an agreement, which could completely destroy it, such as the PSI Greece. The aim was to set up an example to avoid again, as in the case of Greece, so that Germany would not risk its empire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u155	The special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Logiadis, is called in Stepma. After Mr. Logiadis, the floor will be given to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr. Velopoulos. Immediately afterwards, the Minister will speak, Mr. Varvitsiotis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 January, in a few days' time, the UK's exit from the European Union is confirmed by the European Parliament. On 31 January the Brexit is due to take place and a transitional period is provided for until 31 December 2020. For the first time in the history of the European Union, after half a century of membership of a Member State of the United Kingdom, this leaves the European Union. It is indeed an unprecedented, difficult, dangerous, with too many uncertain abrasion factors. What image does the European Union give to the world community with this? He's giving the image of the crisis? Does it give the image of centrifugal forces or dissolution? This is a situation that is essentially of no benefit to anyone. The Eurosceptic attitude of the United Kingdom towards the European Union has always come to light. The Maastricht Treaty and the disastrous management of the euro crisis by the European Union have led the United Kingdom to decide to leave the European Union. Let us recall that, when the 2008 crisis broke out, the global crisis, the Bank of England immediately began to print quid mountains to cope with the growing recession. Before it ended in 2009, the recession had ended there. In contrast to the European Union, the European Central Bank started doing so in 2015, with so much delay. So this year's first bill concerns the regulations in the legislative framework concerning Brexit. The legislative draft shall consist of twelve articles. The latter two relate to the abolition of provisions. It regulates the transitional period until Brexit is completed for British citizens and their family members, taking the case of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom without an agreement with the European Union, with only Article 10 referring to Brexit by agreement. In this draft legal text, which the twenty-seven parliaments have recently been called upon to ratify, standardised, translated into google translate, the European Union follows the hard line of the Brussels bureaucratic hierarchy and the Berlin line, which serves short-sighted interests of the core. For example, Paris dreams of becoming City in the place of City, with the multinational supposedly rushing to settle there, while in the medium term it supplies anti-European populism and centrifuges. Today we do not know whether Brexit is done with or without agreement. However, the situation of the post Brexit of Britain is many. For example, there is the possibility that the United Kingdom will pass into the sphere of influence of America, the American continent, to complete, as Wall Street already does, an endless stock market game, and, due to a difference in time, the stock markets will always remain open. That is where the European Union's cruel punishment against the political and economic segregation of Europe might lead. The European Union will be faded by populism and the centrifugal disastrous tendencies that weaken it. One more thing: If it turns out that the UK's exit is profitable, it is beneficial to UK residents, then we will have further developments of this kind. We in Mera25 propose, firstly, that the national line should be on the one hand absolute respect for the will of the British people, which was expressed twice, both three and a half years ago, in 2016 and a month ago. Brexit is the democratically expressed will of the absolute majority of the British. Secondly, on the other hand, the objective of not alienating Britain from the European Union. That is why we are basically proposing a mild model, a model which will preserve Britain with the customs union of Europe and the participation of Britain in the single market of the European Union, like about Norway. We must stress that it is not possible for the United Kingdom to have a worse situation than Bulgaria, for example, when compared with Bulgaria, which will be a member of the European Union, or for the United Kingdom itself to have the same status as Serbia, which is currently in the European Union, as a third country, Great Britain, which will no longer be a member of the European Union. This is the tough position of Brussels and Berlin, President of the European Union, German Ursula von der Leyen. The European Union must find a new modus vivendi, a new way forward. As I said, we as a PART25 prefer, among all the possible scenarios, what will cause the least possible shocks and the lowest costs for small and medium-sized enterprises and households. It's the scenario of the so-called “mild Brexit”. The thorny issues in the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union are, in particular, issues relating to environmental protection, security, labour matters and tax policy. From the United Kingdom we need to know that Scotland wishes to remain in the European Union, as it is today. Wales and Northern Ireland are split. There is therefore the possibility that the United Kingdom will be divided because of Brexit. Boris Johnson won the elections, but the United Kingdom, which will no longer be a union. I think we will see too much by then. If the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union is successful, profitable, as I said, for the United Kingdom, then it can further be opened for greater centrifuges from the European Union. On 31-1-2020 Boris Johnson is planning to hit Big Ben cheerfully on leaving the European Union. Germany will chair the European Union in the second half of 2020. Question: What attitude will Chancellor Merkel then take against the United Kingdom? The relations between Greece and the United Kingdom concern mainly tourism. The United Kingdom is the second largest country of origin of tourists for Greece and should therefore not be treated by us as a third country. Also, Greek students and workers who are over there play an important role, as do the financial sector. The European Union has many issues and challenges to solve for the benefit of all the peoples of Europe. This is also the goal, the effort, the purpose of Diem25, the first and only pan-European movement, and Mera25 as its Greek arm. With full respect for the British people's democratic expressed verdict, we are voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u157	The President of the Parliamentary Group Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u158	I would like once again, starting with my speech, to welcome the presence of General Haftar in the Greek Parliament, in the semi-official - because this visit by the general is not a formal one - which should have taken place since September. And I say this because I imagine that you have understood in the New Democracy, Minister, that you are being scandalously delayed in almost all matters. Even the bill you bring here today ends in 2020 and something, in that it is a temporary situation, a patch in a process. You know, a few minutes ago, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a statement and told us, Mr Varvitsiotis, within two - three proposals - I would like you to listen to me, because I am interested in your view - that we are 'we are waiting from Germany, we are waiting for the European Union, we are waiting from the allied countries, we are waiting' etc. And I'm wondering, can a country with foreign policy expect other countries to save it? A country with a foreign policy serious and firm expects Germany to save it? Does it expect European solidarity, which is nonexistent and appears from Berlin, Minister, to be saved by Germany? You know, when you say "I expect a third person", Minister, it means I can't, it means I'm weak to do it. This statement, therefore, concerns me. Of course, he also said the famous veto that if something happened with which Greece, Mr Minister, does not agree, that the New Democracy - and the Prime Minister said it yesterday to AlPHA - would veto it. You mean like Skopje? You mean like in Albania? Because in my village, Minister, you know what they say? You're from Arcadia, if I'm not mistaken, to the origin. We don't believe you. You know what they say in my village? "One time a liar, always a liar." You can't tell us in an election that you will veto Skopje, their entrance and their sums, and then you will blame the McCron who vetoed instead of us. So how can the Greeks even believe you in this matter, which is of major importance for the exclusive economic zone? And because we're both older in here, you remember 2008-2009. When I yelled down there saying: "We do EOZ, we do EOZ, there are oil and natural gas", many of your party ridiculed my views and said "There is nothing, these are fairy tales, in your fantasy, etc., the New Democracy party. Today, too, our country is at risk with a generalized war in the wider region from the existence of gas and oil in the wider Mediterranean basin. You will tell me: 'He voted for us 40% of the Greeks'. Well, it's not my fault if some of them don't see who's lying to them and who's telling them the truth. It's not my fault. I'm trying to talk to the Greek people with the self-evident. Listen, Minister. The worst part of all is that while you meet in Berlin on Sunday, you know what Germany told us? Listen to the Germans' answer from the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I read the German press: 'You are represented by the European Union'. The Germans' answer to Greece is that Greece is represented by the European Union. And I wonder, do I have common interests with Germany in the wider area? Oh, no. Do I have common interests with Italy? Oh, no. We have a completely different interest, and I'll prove it to you in a little while. And I'll tell you one more thing. Do you not find it inappropriate to put your own resources, "SKAY" and the other means of information that have become all neo-democratic in one night after the elections - while it was SYRIZA all, all of a sudden, because most of them have bondages, you know what I mean by those who are looking for the story, all of a sudden they have become a New Democracy, and if tomorrow the CC is now in power or the PASOK, will be a KK or a PASOK - and say: "Would we send as our representative, following the great meeting with Mr Mitsotakis and the Treasury to represent Greece in Berlin"? Why don't we make foreign policy for representatives? And let me tell you differently. Today Huffttar is with us. Who guarantees that after a few months he will not be with others? I say that, I repeat, I am in favour of the choices made by Höftar in this case. Who guarantees me that Huffar will not turn our backs on us after a few months if we are unable to help them? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] You know, our German friends a long time ago, when SYRIZA ruled, they said - and your MPs later said - that we had to accept the Ambassadors' agreement, Mr Minister - that is what the Syrians said - to be close to the sphere of influence of Germany, so that we could strengthen our alliances, because our enemy is Turkey, because we have to listen to the voice of the allies and say 'yes' in 'North Macedonia'. That's what SYRIZA said. I saw how powerful our alliances are now. The Germans are empty again. So the given ally called Greece, according to the Prime Minister's statement, is that it will always be "emptied". I told a television channel, Minister, that given this world there is no one, nor is our wife at all, so that we do not deceive ourselves. I say this because you are 'emptied' every day. Every day they 'empty' our country. They do not "empty" you as a New Democracy. That's what you don't understand. You are not New Democracy the government that governs Greece. You are the government of all Greeks. And when our homeland is "emptied", Mr. Minister, it is like "empty" to all Greeks. Where are the allies? I'm asking. Where are our allies? Where are the Americans? Where are the Germans with their cannons? Where are all these, Minister, our allies? Where the hell did they disappear? And because I want to "swirl" some people's memory, if I'm not mistaken, I asked you the timely question on 23 September. You were up there and I was down there telling you that if you didn't do EOZ soon - September 19 the question, a few months ago - we'd lose the Haftar case in Libya. If Haftar is lost, we've lost AOZ. From the Minutes of the House, I read them. I'm telling you, because I know this very well. You need to call Huffar to Greece. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its You took six months to hear the voice of reason, our voice, which we told you to be self-evident. You are working with a time delay. You're operating according to the old, if you want, watch system. Listen to us and if you hear us, you'll succeed. As long as you do not listen to us, you will make criminal mistakes, as will the migration with uninhabited islands, the NGOs you are not closing down. Listen to the voice of reason. It took six months, then. I'll tell you what Huffar will tell you today. There are two teams. One is Saraj's and the other is Huffar's. Sarage is funded directly by Erdogan. You know that? Listen, my Minister, so that the Greek people and those who listen to us here can understand what Saraj and Haftar means. Libya is one of the world's richest countries. Don't be fooled. It has huge deposits of natural gas and oil, as has Greece, but Greece is poor, has been bankrupt. You and the rest of you have been bankrupt. Let's actually go. So Erdogan gives weapons systems, drones and other weapons and is paid for in oil. That's the transaction relationship beyond geopolitical. So, Hufftar, what does he ask of Greece? I attempted to put it to the Prime Minister. He asks that Greece take oil from there, since with Persia, Iran, that is, we have problems - you know what I mean, because of Trump - and give or give arms or money or help them find markets. Will New Democracy do that? Here's the question. Because when you have Huffar next to you, my dear Minister, this group that is philosophical, I'd say you're donating it. Do you know what that's called? Internationally called proxy war. What does proxy war mean? War of Representatives. I will not fight Turkey. After Turkey opened up to the south, I will help the opposing groups to damage Turkey's external geostrategic policy in an indirect way. I don't have to fight. We fight by the side road, for our children, our grandchildren, the next children to come to the place. And I wanted to go to the bill, too, just to say what doesn't answer us. What doesn't answer us, you know? The big question is this. We understand all this terrorism of the memorials as to whether Greece will come out, what harm will we suffer, what damage will we suffer? The British are coming out of the European Union and winners are coming out. Because the first economic indicators show that they also have an input of funds, while you were telling us the opposite while you were in favour of the memorials, that if Greece leaves, the funds will be gone. It's like we're filled with foreign funds. Greece is filled with coarse investments! The investments are here! Casino is here, of course, not to forget, in Maroussi, the Greek, now in Larissa, tomorrow in Trikala, the day after tomorrow. Pick up a casino in Greece. Is that an investment? Is that investment? Investment means investment. And I'll tell you what investment means. You don't understand that the world is becoming multipolar? I'll give you a story now. Here's what the New Democracy does. He went to the United States, to Trump, to the Prime Minister, and it seems, seeing that Germany does not support us very much, is forced to pull behind the United States as a given allied country. You're making the wrong choice again. Wrong horse again, you choose. Because America has never helped us either. And to tell you raw, because Mr. Hatzidakis didn't believe me in the past, Mr. Hatzidakis, I told you that Germany is the most corrupt country in the world. The proof is that this year's pilot program has been coming out so the Germans can cut evidence. I know what I'm telling you. The most tax-free citizens in the world and the most corrupt state is Germany. Don't be fooled. It's corrupted to the medal, Mr. Varvichiotis. I live there, have a home, live my relatives, my friends, and I know Germany better. But I'm going to say that. The world is multipolar. Why do I have to be given a given to the United States? Pax Americana's over. Understood. There is emerging China, emerging India, Orthodox Russia and other countries. Why should these countries consider Greece to be data with the United States? Tell me why. We were told by the Americans, Minister, something I might not know and you know? That if anything happens, would they send cannons to Greece? Will their plane ships be sent here? No, I haven't heard such a statement. All I've heard right away is that he's a friend of Trump's, and that he has to pay money. It's all business, Minister. Everything is based on interest. Nothing more and nothing less. So Britain is trying to become a big one. This is Brexit, Minister. The British did not wake up one morning and said 'I want to leave the European Union'. He didn't mind. He wants to be great again, because he sees the multipolarity of the world. He sees the planet is reactivated in many poles. And the United Kingdom wants, because it has in its DNA colonialism, the great empire, the Commonwealth, to emerge from where it is - satellite from the Germans and the European Union over the last few years - and to become large again. It's all the substance. See, then, what Greece has to do so that it is not the satellite saving well and given a country with the United States. There is also a contradiction. You cannot be with the United States while the United States is confronting Germany because of Nord Stream and at the same time listening to Germany. You will either listen to Germany or listen to the United States at this time. That's the truth. Because if you are in the European Union, you have to understand one thing. The German cannot forbid you and impose the embargo on Russia so that I do not sell my peaches, my agricultural products, I do not export, and Nord Stream 2 from the Baltic Sea, in violation of the embargo which she has imposed on me to put to the Russians. So I tell you that there are things that we need to take seriously in this place. Unfortunately, we are not seeing them, and what is most disturbing about me is the reply of the Prime Minister when Mr Schroyter asked him to 'ALPHA' yesterday. He asked him: "What will you do if Turkey send a research vessel into the Greek continental shelf?" Mitsotakis: "What is needed". Schrotter: 'The question is what is needed'. Mitsotakis: "What is needed and we will do and what is needed not to get to the point of doing what is needed." Now that's Pythia? Your forgiveness is in the battle. You're going, you're coming back, I don't know if you're coming back? What's he saying? "We'll do whatever it takes." So, what do you mean? We'll do whatever it takes to do whatever it takes not to do whatever it takes. Now if this statement, ladies and gentlemen, is a Prime Minister's statement, I honestly say this, or it is an unfortunate statement, or rather he did not understand what he said or does Pythia at the Delphi Mansion, saying things after the chewing of the laurel or the fumes below, something happened, he did not say so well. Well, let's be careful. Also, what upset me most is what Mr Hatzidakis said. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament had to be dormant today with the Hatzidakis Declaration. Do you know what Mr. Hatzidakis said? Turkey - and I do not know if this statement by your Minister is valid - could be accepted to EastMed Gas Forum if it respects international law. In EastMed, ladies and gentlemen, countries which have a border link with the pipeline that passes or have gas and oil. Does Turkey have gas and oil to enter this forum? Does Turkey or anything else have Hatzidakis here, that we're going to a gathering? Does Turkey have oil and natural gas to enter EastMed? Is Turkey bordering where the pipeline passes, with Libya, Egypt or Cyprus? It passes under Crete. So how does he make that statement? What door did the Minister open with this statement? Be careful what you say. One of Mitsotakis, one of Hatzidakis, will finally get Greece to be outside Sounio. What are these things? And because time is pushing, I'll tell you this. The Prime Minister told us that Greece has interests. I've learned in my life to give evidence. You will see now, because Greece, Minister, cannot be treated equally with Turkey. I am honest, honest, upright and most of all in here will say what really happens and not what everyone imagines. Germany: Turkey's trade balance, Germany $36.4 billion. A huge sum, 36.4 billion is her commercial balance. Germany's investment in Turkey: $9.1 billion in three years. Now I do not put the VOLKSWAGEN, you have a new investment. Eighty thousand Turkish-German companies in Germany. More than three and a half million Germans. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] Let's go to other countries. Our friend Germany cancels the advantage that our country has with the submarines "Papanikolis", which the New Democracy has struggled to receive in the past - so that I don't blame your party - and enables her to take six submarines in the Aegean Sea. Our German friends! Do you remember the old lada in the movie? They're our friends, the Germans, for the sake of good they came here. Nobody's coming for anybody's good here. Our German friends, then, give six submarines and make up our own advantage. Our friends, not our friends, your friends, because my friends aren't anyway. Italy, the allied country: trade balance of 20 billion euros. What friends of ours, guys? What friends? Let's go to other countries. I'm telling you this is the evidence I got from the Turkish Chamber of Commerce, it's not mine. Here, I'm tabling them for the Minutes of the House. They are all European countries. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Listen here. Another country, England. Since we are talking about England here, $17 billion for Turkey - England trade. Who are you mocking in here? What allies are you telling me? We're going to another country. France: trade balance of 15 billion. Our friends are investing in this country, Turkey. We're going to another country. Spain: EUR 12.5 billion Turkey-Spain trade balance. There are other countries I have in front of here. If you believe even now that these billion-dollar countries that invest there will help my home country in Berlin or Nuremberg or Paris or London, you are wrong. You live in another world! It's all in good interest. Thucydides taught them two and a half thousand years ago. It's all a matter of interest. There are no friendships between states. Even in our interpersonal relationships when our friend doesn't bring us any good, we turn his back. It can't be done, don't we? And there is Greece, friends and friends, the poor other than honest Greece, Mr. Minister, who, with regard to the host country of Turkey, on the metro of Athens uses devices from the Turkish company "ASIS CT". Listen, Minister, Mr Karamanlis lowered his abortion poster - another stupid option to inform someone that abortion is bad, it must come down, it is realpolitik, rational tactics - but there are Turkish machines on the Athens subway. Do you know that, Minister? I also call you the name of the company 'ASIS CT'. So what does that say? He says that we suckers give the Turks money beyond the currency we give them to buy guns. This company, Minister, do you know what he's building? Please note, Minister, 'ASIS CT'. This company builds weapons in Turkey and Greece on the Athens subway has also put its own machinery. This is Greece! And to close today's speech, because many people have said things, I will tell them something very simple, one of the reasons why we disagreed with Mrs Sakellariou. Minister, do you see this here? Look at it, ladies and gentlemen. Sahara! Do you know what this is? The Squirrels! You want pictures? I'll testify for the Minutes all. Look at this! This lady approved the environmental study. Otherwise, she's a friend with the environment. Go to Skouries to see that people have the highest rates of nephropathies! And you made her President of the Republic! Respectable, otherwise! Honestly, otherwise! He made a merciful mistake for an entire area. And I won't say the rest. I told the rest of the reporters. So I'm hanging up with the simplest. The problem of Greek foreign policy is that you are fearful. You're scared. I won't say stereophobics, I said it yesterday. You're terrific, Minister. If you were to call Haftar in September, you would have made all the advances. If you did EEZ from September and just before, the Germans would have to call us in Berlin. They couldn't do differently, because Greece is bordering Libya. You make little mistakes, I don't know if they're involuntary or voluntary, but your own mistakes get them the next generation, the new kids up there. Do you see them? They will receive your mistakes or ours if at some point the Greek Solution governs. If the Greek gets reasonable, it will understand that because we have a programme, we have a plan, we have a point of view and what we say comes out after a few months or years, I am sure we will be the next government, or we will be terrifyingly uploaded, so that you can hear us better. For as long as you do not listen to us and do the deaf things - in introductory words, so that some do not get the wrong - while you represent the deaf ones, we will have a problem in our country. Haftar will be coming today and tomorrow in Berlin, Greece will be absent. We're going to the United States and we're going to say that we're on our way to the Americans. No, Greece is not given for anyone! Greece is given for Greece, it is a friend with all countries, when its national interest is served and when we all serve together the national interest of our children coming from above! Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one student and three educational attendants from the 2nd General School of Sweet Waters. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Xinoyannakopoulou. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure that this year's parliamentary work begins with this bill, which regulates the issues of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. It is clear that this decision is not a decision that delights us, it is not a decision that strengthens the European Union, it is not a decision that gives Europe wings to fly. I'd say the opposite. It shows precisely that the European Union has not been able to meet the challenge of integrating the remarks, the concerns of the citizens of the United Kingdom, and today Europe is becoming poorer because it leaves 13% of its population, 16% of its GDP, the oldest parliamentary democracy, an imperial force with the presence and knowledge of all parts of the world, a nuclear power, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. For these reasons, we think that Europe is becoming poorer and should at some point discuss and discuss how this illusion was created, namely the illusion that the European Union did not make Britain stronger, but on the contrary it put weight on its feet, so that its citizens would decide to leave. The arguments in favour of Brexit are not far from the arguments we hear in other European countries, what we call 'net contributions' to the Community budget. Although it is systematically proven that their participation in the procedures of the common market adds too much and the strengthening of the European budget actually gives these countries much more financial resources, at the same time they say that we are 'paying a lot for Europe, and we could use this money in schools, our universities and our social structures'. The dialogue that is taking place in these countries is, in fact, overlooking one thing, that those countries which are net contributions to the Community budget are the countries that benefit greatly more from European funds than those which accept and ultimately accept Community funds. The Commission has calculated that for each euro which each net contributor country contributes to cohesion policies, it actually collects another EUR 5 in trade. Today, in discussing the United Kingdom, we need to make it clear what the framework is for the relations that we want to have with the United Kingdom. And for us these relations after Brexit must be stronger, they must be better. Because we are an important trading partner. For us the United Kingdom is a key trading partner. We export an important part of our exports. It is our fifth most important trading partner. We have a huge tourist stream from the United Kingdom. Also, about a hundred and fifteen thousand Greeks live today in Great Britain, while some fifty thousand British live in Greece. Already one hundred and fifteen thousand Greeks who live in Great Britain, the sixty-two, sixty-three thousand so far have applied for this scheme, that is to say, to retain their right to remain and their insurance interests and employment rights, as described by the United Kingdom. Of course, Great Britain has never been a member of the Economic and Monetary Union, it did not enter the hard core of Europe, it did not participate in the Schengen process, and therefore any withdrawal does not affect these two policies, which are the common borders policy and the common currency policy. But it certainly remains a strong financial centre, which through the fluctuations in the price of the pound will also significantly affect Greek exports. Our aim, therefore, is not to lose and win this departure, even though it has been estimated that the withdrawal alone will cost about 1% of European GDP. We don't want to be part of this mess. On the contrary, we want to get out of here. And that is why we are moving forward with these regulations, in fact, satisfying all the concerns of British citizens who live in Greece, but also all the companies that are dealing with Britain. That is why we have already launched an information campaign in September. We have already made information seminars both in Thessaloniki and Athens with the participation of hundreds of businesses that are regularly traded with Great Britain. We have proceeded with a national operational plan of a hundred and twenty-eight actions, which is a road map in the event of an unscathed Brexit in order to regulate all individual issues, so that there is no gap. We have set up a website at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the brexit.gov.gr, through which we are giving answers to both citizens and to traders and to businesses about what arrangements will be in the next day of Britain's exit from the European Union and, of course, if we do not agree on how to proceed with practical problems posed to us by the citizens and the trade unions. I really want to thank all the members of the public administration who participated in the preparation of these actions, because they have been extremely prepared for this entire period and have contributed with expertise in the legislative, administrative and organisational shielding of the Greek state apparatus. I believe that the United Kingdom will eventually not withdraw without an agreement. We will start these negotiations, which we hope will end up with. I am not sure that the absolute binding deadline set for 31-12-2020 will be a deadline which will ultimately be met. At least, the assessments of the European Commission and European negotiator Michel Barnier are that it will take much more time and much more powers to address these challenges. The bill we are debating today covers a wide range of rights that need to be regulated, including the issues of the accommodation of British citizens, social security, health care, and it also contains arrangements on issues such as financial, transport, insurance and tourism. I think there has already been a very long debate in both the committee and the first reading and the second reading. Our rapporteur, I think, has fully presented the challenges facing the bill. I am sure that the dialogue that has developed within the committee - and I would also like to thank the rapporteurs from the other parties for their key observations - has led to the formation of a large majority supporting this legislative initiative. The fact is that some issues are not dealt with by this bill. They are first of all issues which were not intended to cover this bill, because they fall within the competence of other ministries and will be dealt with within the framework of bilateral conventions, which we wish to draw up with the United Kingdom. For example, the educational agreement that the Ministry of Education has to conclude with the respective authorities of the United Kingdom on the issues of students, postgraduate students, teachers in the British universities, which is an important part of the British educational system, but also an important part of our country's scientific potential. At the same time, with regard to other issues, such as what the Communist Party of Greece raised on the issues of workers in the construction sector - and after the note it gave me - we are prepared to put them in our negotiating package and discuss with the competent British authorities how to deal with these problems. At the same time, we are moving towards strengthening the services and, in particular, the customs services, with an inspiring potential, moving towards the immediate implementation of recruitment and transfers, so that our customs services are sufficiently staffed when they have to deal with the increased volume of trade, which should now go through the status of the third country, because that is what the citizens of the United Kingdom have decided on. They decided to become citizens of a third country in relation to the European Union and not to participate in it, either with the status of the applicant country or with the status of the Member State. Since Great Britain is our seventh export trading partner, and the eleventh importing country, we decided to strengthen customs services by doing something that other Member States have already done. I would like to mention to you the example of France, which has already made some seven hundred additional customs duties available to meet the needs that will be created after the withdrawal of the United Kingdom. As I have had the opportunity to point out to the committee - and I am pleased with the remarks made by the Civilian Opposition Party - there is no disruption in strategic planning of recruitment to the public through these recruitments. I guess the opposite. They will meet standing needs, which will multiply, as I said before. We are also moving towards innovation in establishing a business visa, namely the possibility of an invitation and by issuing the visa within a very short period of time citizens of third countries from Greek enterprises, for trade, for participation in conferences, seminars, for participation in trade fairs or for direct consultations. This will make it easier for the business community, which, too often, carries us away from anxiety and concern about how our services operate in relation to business and that we often do not recognise the need for a short visa decision and for the responsibility of the person inviting us to take responsibility for the caller and his behaviour, namely the failure to violate the status of the guest in the framework of the Schengen Agreement. I would like to say to you that we believe that all this challenge, Brexit's challenge, requires us all to show diligence and flexibility and preparedness, because we believe that diplomatic and trade ties with Britain have not only a long history but also have serious significance. That is why we believe that, on the basis of this history and of economic and political policy, we should also make it easier for these transactions to be extended, of course, while respecting two basic principles. The first principle is the principle of reciprocity. That is why, within the framework of any bilateral agreements which are then drawn up, we should have our minds completely. Today, in the regulations that we are introducing, the need for reciprocity is fully covered, since the United Kingdom has offered the possibility of staying, without other formalities, only by registering them in a similar table. We offer the same to the British citizens who live in Greece who, in addition to the rights we grant them, also have the right to vote in municipal elections. There is, in fact, a particular community in Crete, in Chania, in which almost a majority of those voting in a community apartment are British citizens. We could not give them that, of course, because they are not provided for by our constitutional order, since they are citizens of a third country and are not citizens of a Member State of the European Union. However, I would also like to make two comments on what President Velopoulos said a moment ago. It is true that the Greek Government is facing with due seriousness and with an extremely intense diplomatic mobility the challenges which we have in the Mediterranean area from Turkey's provocative behaviour. This provocative behaviour at European level has already been condemned in many ways. It has been condemned with regard to Cyprus and condemned by the European Council, but also by sanctions, which came to the European Council in October and were adopted by the European Council. Then the European Council itself condemned the signing of the two Memorandums between Turkey and Libya and clearly adopted a position on their illegal nature. And, of course, he clearly took a stand on the fact that they do not produce results in relation to third countries. This statement was made again by the President of the European Council a few days ago in Brussels when he had the opportunity to meet the Libyan leadership and is repeated at every opportunity by all the Member States of the European Union at the request of them. The fact is that at the moment - today - that we are discussing here, in the next room, the Prime Minister meets with Libyan general, through whom he sends a clear message: Greece is present in the developments in Libya. He has asked, in his speech and to German Chancellor, for our country's participation in the Berlin process. It is a process that has started several years ago, from which Greece has been constantly excluded. And for the first time today Greece claims to be involved in terms of ensuring peace in the region, a sustainable solution to the Libyan problem and the restoration of international order and legitimacy. We always defend international order and legitimacy. We don't do it a card. As a country we are dominated in the international round by creating and developing relationships of trust and friendship with all states, but always serving the rules and principles of international law. At all times, the Prime Minister and also the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are clearly expressing our positions towards all the interlocutors, either beyond the Atlantic or in Europe's central capitals, or in our partners in the East such as China, we express our willingness to peaceful coexist and peaceful settlement of disputes, but we also express our determination to defend our sovereign rights by every possible means. I would ask any political leader, any political opponents in this Chamber, not to degrade it. Because it is not a position which is expressed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who is a Prime Minister today, but over time by the Greek state, the Greek state. Our political leadership has always had one goal: defending our sovereign rights. The voice that has to come out of Parliament must be resentful and unanimous that, like Greeks, we are determined to defend our sovereign rights in every possible way. We will always look at our international relations with respect for international law and, of course, with respect for the rights and interests of our country, which we are in no way ignoring, instead we are strengthening at every opportunity. I would like to make a comment. In recent years we have tried to broaden these interests by drawing up important energy agreements, such as EastMed, which are just expanding the network of our allies, through which we have common claims, but also making the society of interests, which we are creating, as a key lever for common positions in the common foreign policy. I would therefore like to ask all the parties to support this national effort and, of course, to monitor with the greatest degree of restraint, seriousness, responsibleness, which we should always be on the same side of the river. We defend national interests and national sovereignty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u161	Let me make two announcements. The Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religion "National Authority for Higher Education, Special Accounts for Research in Higher Education Institutions, Research and Technology and other provisions". It is also known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and five educational attendants from the 8th Graduate School of Agrinio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister of Finance, Mr Skulakakis, has asked for the floor to be set for an amendment concerning the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, may I have the floor? I want to ask Mr Varvitsiotis a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u164	And you want to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u165	I would like to reply, Mr President, to something that has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u166	Answer something the Minister said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u168	But let's set a row.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u169	I, too, have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u170	Yes, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, I know you've asked for the floor. We're not depriving you. Mr. Loverdos wants to ask a question. Let's give Mr. Loverdos the floor and then immediately after Mr. Heta. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, I ask the Foreign Ministry for clarification. It was just a moment ago that the Foreign Minister made some statements, after his meeting with General Huffar, and it was said that we would send troops to Libya as a country. Please, because I understand the context and what I read from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that it is not the statement that should not be the case, please give clarification to the National Representation. He can't have said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. You, Mr. Heta, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u173	Minister, because you referred to the speech made by our President and to what he said, I would like to say that you are constantly asking - and that is good - consensus from all parties, from all sides. Consent in one way or another, you have it. But at some point you must understand that you must also listen to those from whom you are calling for consensus. He was telling you a while ago, on 23 September - we were here shouting about Hufftar. You're not listening. You must listen. I would like to tell you that Turkey's behaviour, Minister, is not challenging. And we've been telling it lately, constantly, on every opportunity. Unfortunately, Turkey's behaviour is claiming, it is not challenging. It's been in the next stage. Also, Minister, since the Europeans - as you said - support us and love us and are our friends too, I ask - why they are being given weapons. Thirdly, neither the United States of America, Mr Minister, nor the European Union - they may have described Turkey's behaviour and the agreement in any way - as illegally characterised the agreement with Libya. And that should be taken into account. And fourthly - as I also told you - it is the important issue with Hufftar. It's a very important energy. He's here right now and he has a meeting with the Prime Minister of the country. We are, unfortunately, running behind developments. You haven't learned to listen. We are here, in particular, on important issues relating to our national issues, so that you can hear from us. And you see that we are right or wrong. That's what I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u174	Minister, do you want now or after the speech? Because the positions of the parliamentary representatives will also be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u175	I would like a minute, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u176	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u177	As far as Mr Loverdou's remark is concerned, the Prime Minister's meeting with General Hufftar is currently taking place. I think they will follow some statements. I, as you know, have been here since morning. I haven't followed all the statements. I think that the necessary clarifications will be made. But I want to say one thing. Don't get ahead of us on all the issues. He needs a temper. And temper is helping us. The fact that the European Union does not recognise that the memos between Turkey and Libya produce no legal effect to third countries and recognise the fact that they are insulting for the national sovereignty of Greece, precisely describes the context of their illegality. Now if we want to express it in other words, you know that the world language of diplomacy has thousands of expressions. The result remains the same. Something which does not produce legal effects is something that is not based on any legal basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u178	Good. To give the floor to Mr. Sklaakakis, the Deputy Minister of Finance, to put him on the Ministry's amendment. You've got three minutes, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Ministry of Finance is on behalf of the Ministry of Finance for the amendment that attempts to address market problems in relation to real estate transfers, particularly because of threatened fines to notaries on issues of the use of an inaccurate ENVA certificate. This amendment seeks to streamline the fines imposed by providing that no fine is imposed if the use of the incorrect HPAI certificate does not result in a loss of tax on the public. The concept of ‘inaccurate certificate’ is also now laid down in the law and it is explicitly provided that incorrect certificates are the certificate which does not correctly reflect the tax identity of the property or the right to the property. At the same time, the concept of the tax identity of the property, which is now defined as all the information contained in the E9, is redefined and influenced by the correct calculation of the tax. Finally, the proposed amendment suspends until 30 June 2020 the application of the provisions of Articles 47, 48 and 49 of Law 646/2019, i.e. the law by which a package of measures for the substantial reform of the tax system has recently been adopted, mainly to supplement the declarations of transfer of real estate, inheritance, donations, parental benefits and property from notaries. In this way, the entry into force of these Articles is now linked to the forthcoming remodelling of the framework for determining the objective values of the real estate. Finally, a reasonable period of time is provided for the market and, in particular, for the professionals involved in transfers, such as notaries, in order to prepare themselves, but also for the industry concerned to go smoothly to the new regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xinoyannakopoulou, has the floor. He asked for the floor to speak immediately after Mr. Loverdos, the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL. If there are no objections, because four speakers have been signed, we should take the procedure a parliamentarian, a speaker, so that the speakers are also discussed among the Members of Parliament. [[At this point, the Libyan Marshal, Mr. Kalifa Haffar, enters the Chamber.]] Here you go, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would just like to wait a minute, because how am I supposed to talk after the Minister's up?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u182	Start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, the first bill we are discussing at the National Representation with the new year, we are discussing it in a very difficult and unfavourable international geopolitical environment, both globally and in particular with regard to our country. The truth is that we have a constant escalation in the tension, aggression and provocativeness of Turkey. At the same time, this week, this environment was even more burdened with our national interests because of the blockade of our country by the Berlin Conference, which is going to take place in the next few days. It is true that Greece must and must - and it is something that we, Minister - have pointed out this - constantly develop initiatives, seek channels of communication, alliances, information and promotion with regard to both our national issues and the overall developments in our region that affect us. In this sense, the visit of General Hufftar, who was previously in this Chamber with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, certainly forms part of a process that we consider to be positive, that is to say, that there should be contact, that Greece should be present and with active diplomacy. However, all of this, Minister, cannot be fragmentary or deeds, which are retrospective to chase unfavourable developments, such as the one we have seen this week with the exclusion of our country, and certainly cannot be spasmist actions that are not in place and which are not part of a comprehensive national strategy, of course taking into account all these developments. We have already heard how you closed your speech and it is clear that a foreign policy strategy to be effective must have two elements: first of all it must be worked out and feels and perceptions of overall developments, but it must also be based on truth and real events. To catch, then, the real facts up there and see how things can turn out. The facts, Minister and Minister of Government, are that the New Democracy Government in the seven months since the July elections has slipped, inactivated, underestimated events and developments. We do not commit a trial of intent, because you mentioned it, and of course we have no reason to say that a Greek government does not intend to defend the country's sovereign rights. But where we are criticising and exercising it in a responsible way, not with cries and accusations - as unfortunately we, when we were in the government in the previous period, had suffered from New Democracy as opposition - but with a sense of patriotic duty to help deal with the problems and with an effective, modern foreign policy. So what is the reality of the frugality and devaluation of developments, Minister? First of all, let's start with developments in Libya. Yesterday Mr. Mitsotakis implied in an interview he gave, in response to Mr. Srotter, saying, "What can we do? That is what we have received," which is not the reality. The process to which you referred, with regard to Libya that had started since Berlin in 2015, was then completed after a few months. Then there was the initiative in Palermo, where Greece participated at the highest level, with the then Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras. And, of course, the invitation then to Greece, where the Prime Minister went, was not a general invitation. It was because the Greek diplomacy and the Greek government then, of SYRIZA, claimed its participation. [[Noise on the ministerial benches]] Minister, I answer you if you have the kindness at least to monitor the opposition and you may have a different opinion. We'll hear you. It therefore reclaimed its participation and I respond to what you have said, namely that the process has not been continuing since 2015. Subsequently, as there was an escalation of tension and conflict within Libya in April 2019, the UN appointed a special envoy, Mr Gasan Salame, who took the initiative on the part of the United Nations for Libya on 29 July. Let me remind you that we had elections in this country on 7 July. He made a series of visits to capitals at the time. On 4 September 2019, he presented his conclusion to the United Nations and then the September preparatory meeting for the Berlin conference we have in a few days. Then, Minister, as our opposition - and you can refer to the Minutes - to a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House, at which Mr Dendias was here, we had raised the matter and urged you - and then it was before the agreement was reached on the Turkish memorandum with Libya - our country in time, when it was undeniable that time still had to claim its participation. Putting things on the right basis if we want to have an effective strategy at this stage. Unfortunately, this has not been done. Unfortunately, there was frugality. Unfortunately, all these results are the result of this today. The result is that Turkey should be involved for the first time, that this initiative should have been extended with other countries that have entered the last minute and that Greece should be absent. So, even now on 'and five', you are welcome to take initiatives. These initiatives, however, cannot be spasmist. You must finally put forward a comprehensive strategy on these issues. And because Mr. Loverdes said earlier, we would also like to have some clarifications and to understand exactly what Mr. Dendias said. We understand that a meeting with the Prime Minister was under way, so we also expect the final statements to be put forward. We would also like to have a clear picture of these issues from you, because issues have been raised in this statement, which have many interpretations, and we did not want to rush and accuse ourselves that we are going to do a trial of intent before we have a full picture. But Mr. Mitsotakis said something else yesterday. He talked about veto. Minister, we would like clarification here. The veto that Mr. Mitsotakis said, where will it be exactly? You said before - and rightly so - that in the conclusions of the December European Council there is a reference that does not recognise the existence of these memoranda with Turkey and Libya and the effects on third countries. But you said half the truth again. The other half of the truth was that we and the President of SYRIZA, Mr Tsipras, and overall SYRIZA, had then urged the government in time to put a question of sanctions preventive for Turkey, when this escalation had begun and after these two unscrupulous memorials with Libya. Then what did we hear, ladies and gentlemen, from this Step? Because it's okay, Mr. Mitsotakis is talking about veto now. It matters what it has done before the Greek diplomacy, so that we do not get to the point now comes to say about veto and make it clear. What does he mean by the veto? Does it mean that it will be exercised if there is to be an agreement that makes a reference or acknowledgs Turkey's memoirs with Libya? Is it referring to decisions by the European Union as a whole for the region? We would like a clarification. In any case, above all, we would like to know whether your attitude to the proposal we have made to you on the sanctions that were necessary. So let me remind you that Mr. Dendias from this Step said, before Christmas, that it was their choice not to raise the issue of preventive sanctions against Turkey in relation to the memoranda with Libya and that it was something they would handle. We have seen the manipulations and where we have been driven right now, Turkey being in Berlin and not being Greece. You yourself, Minister, once again from this Step and from the Committee on European and Foreign Affairs, said that it is your choice to seek such sanctions only if there is a violation of the Greek EEZ. So, in conclusion, things are very serious and we are not making a pointless opposition here. We are deeply concerned, we are concerned about developments and are concerned when we see fragmentary actions taking place below the weight of developments that seem to exceed the government, as was the case in the past, in one day with the refugee, with the exclusion of Greece from Berlin, by speeding up the election with regard to the candidate President of the Republic. I will close this issue, saying that this is the time now, even where things have arrived, finally there is an integrated strategy, to have an integrated discussion with the parties. The President of SYRIZA has asked for a Council of Political Heads to be held. Nor can there be any fragmentary action, nor on such serious issues, to hear various statements, which are not visible exactly in what context they are part of. And I will end, Minister, by saying, as far as the bill we are talking about is concerned, that we support it. We believe that, unfortunately, as things have evolved in connection with Brexit too, it is a full finding and confirmation of the weakness of Europe's institutional, political and economic crisis. And here, although we consider your legislative initiative to be positive, I would like to close by pointing out what we have said to the committee, because it also has a number of consequences which our rapporteur and you have raised in detail. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll just hang up. We will expect from you, as the Ministry you are right to take the coordination of Brexit issues, to bring to the Foreign Affairs Committee, as you are committed, a comprehensive strategic analysis of the consequences, but also of the bilateral, as well as of the European context, initiatives that Greece will take as regards the workers, students and in general the economic interests that our country has in Britain, but of course also how our bilateral relations with Britain will move from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. Minister, have you asked to intervene on any legislative improvements that you would like to present?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, I would like to table an addition - a recast in relation to paragraph 8 of Article 11. The recast reads as follows: ‘The invitation concerns citizens of third countries who wish to enter the country in order to participate in meetings, conferences, training seminars, exhibitions, conferences or events of a commercial and industrial nature and is submitted in case the citizens of third countries cannot certify the conditions themselves’. Secondly, I would like to say that in the title of the draft bill: 'Constitutions for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union' we add 'and other provisions', of course, after acceptance of the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance on matters relating to notaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Minister. Please share the changes that have taken place. Let us now see the rest of the sitting with regard to speakers and the order. We shall now give the floor to the first speaker on the list, Mr Anastasiades. As you know, they are four speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u187	After I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u188	Mr Loverdo, when I said it, I asked for a consultation with this House, there was a disturbance at that time. And I said, asking this House, among the parliamentary representatives, to intervene as well as one of the speakers. They are four Members of Parliament. We will give the floor to Mr Anastasiades. Then you'll take the floor, Mr. Loverdos. Then there is Mrs. Macrey, Mr. Güulekas and the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis. Then there's Mr. Hetas and last of all Mr. Mellas from New Democracy. There's been a series, I think. Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for the arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen, since the citizens of the United Kingdom decided and voted, in June 2016, to leave the European Union and the day that, a few months later, Article 50 on departure was activated, developments were legislatively outdated. A few days ago the United Kingdom House of Representatives passed a law allowing the European Union to withdraw by agreement. This resolution, of course, erased and prevented all fears and anguish for naughty Brexit, which would have very difficult issues and would create enormous problems in relations and trade between the two countries. Of course, the withdrawal of Britain from the European Union is a clear and great failure of the European Union, and that must concern us. But this must also be a challenge for study and planning and the way in which the European Union should go in the future. None of us, of course, can imagine in this Chamber is satisfied or rejoices with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. But this is a decision by the British people and, of course, it is absolutely respected by all of us. The European Union and our country should continue to maintain good relations, but also to prepare together for how to deal with the next day that has already come. We must ensure that we have as few problems as possible in our trade and in our cooperation from leaving, which will bring too many changes in tourism, in trade, in the movement of persons, in students, in workers and in many other procedures that we cannot yet anticipate. Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, I'm talking to you. There are too many procedures that we cannot anticipate today, so that there is an integrated approach. And, of course, after the departure of 31-1-2020 and the intermediate period until 31-12-2020, it will be very complex or more complicated than it is today. Even with any preferential customs regime, the impact on our country and the European Union will be inevitable and relevant to all sectors of the economy. This is also the conclusion of the statement made by the British Prime Minister a few days ago that Europe's new relationship with the United Kingdom should not be based on and will not be based on maintaining the same rules. Our country must prepare itself, and that is what we are discussing today. It requires very good information from society and also from economic operators, to know what is waiting for them the other day. The preparation of tourist, business, economic operators, in cooperation and with the support of the state authorities, is considered necessary so that they can meet the challenges that will arise from the new data. Of course, it is self-evident - and I think no one disagrees in this Chamber - that the greatest burden on the new data will be called upon to raise the customs service. This is why the strengthening of staff with new staff is a priority, with new colleagues, and that is what is being done. And I am glad that it was accepted by all sides and we did not insist at the outset that recruitment should be planned only if the departure was naughty, that is, without an agreement. With or without agreement, customs procedures will increase and additional staff will be required to deal with the situation. Withdrawal will affect the already burdensome situation, in terms of staff, of the customs service, as the procedures required will be multiple and relate to the entire movement of goods and persons. We must strengthen staff, Minister, and start immediately. You said, too, in your speech that other countries in Europe, France, as you quite rightly said, currently having seven and a half thousand customs officers, has strengthened its staff with an additional seven hundred. Belgium, which has three and a half thousand customs officers, has strengthened its staff with an additional three hundred eighty. The Netherlands, which has four and a half thousand customs officers, has strengthened its staff - and these recruitments have already been carried out - with a further seven hundred employees. So our country, which has quite a different geographical morphology from these countries and a greater need, must fill this gap. And you were right to accept, Mr Ministers, and the whole House also accepted that these procedures should go ahead. You have brought today's bill very well and quickly, so that the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from our country and prepared and shielded by the challenges that will be faced by the new data that departure will bring, which will now be a third country, and which will be treated as a third country like its citizens, and our citizens respectively as citizens of a third country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. Congressman Antonis Samaras sent a letter requesting a short-day absence from 20 to 25 January 2020 in order to go abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u191	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying, as I have done in the media in the past few days, our very positive attitude to the candidate President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou, who has had a decades' drive in the field of justice with dignity and validity and a remarkable presence in the decade of the trial that Greece has passed because of the economic crisis as a member of the leadership of the Council of State - because there was also Vice-President - but also as President of the Council of State. The vast majority declared by the three largest parties in the House will accompany it in the exercise of its presidential duties. It is a weapon, a weapon that will help it to exercise effectively and seriously the regulatory powers that the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic gives. Wednesday we'll have her election here. As colleagues know, the election is not in words, it is an election without words, because the Constitution requires that the President of the Republic does not interfere in the political life of the country. He is politically irresponsible, so the political speech of the candidates would not make sense, because he cannot do so and the House is voting because the Members are expressing their positive or unfavourable opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, as a parliamentary representative, I take the opportunity given to me by the House with today's draft law, to express what I would say if the procedure for the election of the President of the Republic was a process that was accompanied by words. The second thing I would like to stress for today is the latest developments relating to the problems created by the void, the irresponsible and illegal agreement between a non-existent Libyan government and Turkey. Today we are hosting General Huffar in Athens, and on this occasion I would like to say two things. First of all, Minister, our country is a Parliamentary Republic. We are not confronted, the government is not confronted with opposition. The government governs and Opposition opposes. Therefore, it does not create breaches in national unity, the fact that our party's emphasis on the fact that your attempt to participate in the Berlin Conference, because it has not been successful, creates the condition of your negative criticism. If you'd made it, we'd call you good. Since you have not succeeded, we are critical and serious, as much as the previous Prime Minister is responsible, who in 2015 did what you say. The result counts in politics. You're six months in government. We were alerted as a political system, otherwise if the previous government underestimated the issue. We were warned that the signing of such an agreement is imminent. I have personally raised this issue twice at the National Foreign Policy Council in Katorugalos, as well as your own representative, the Ambassador, the Ambassador, Mr Savvaidis. It wasn't lightning. So, from the moment you took over, you knew that this threatens the country, obviously - and if you did not know it, diplomacy would have informed you - that this conference is on the table and our country had to be there. One of the reasons why our country is not there - the German press today mentions it - is Turkey's demand that we should not be there. This makes the negative criticism we are making you even more serious. Of course, to be fair in this Chamber and to know what situation we are talking about, Russia's intervention could be a catalyst for our participation, but it is not your fault, of course. Mr. Kotzias is responsible for what he has experienced, with the expulsions of Russians from Greece, but also with an action that does not concern politics but the Church. With the recognition of the Ukrainian Church, our relationship with Russia has deteriorated. We never fooled the Russians. Your interlocutor must always know very well what your position is. Greece's position is in the Eurozone, in the European Union, in NATO, and Russia knows that well. But you're not allowed to play alley games, give the impression that you're a friend to someone, beyond those who are immoral and established, and in fact prove you're not. The previous ones have ruined the balance of our relations with Russia and we are now paying for it in a way, because Russia could have played a catalyst in our participation there. The previous ones are responsible for this, and I want to be fair. However, now you are government six months and the criticism of non-participation is directed at you. I consider the visit of Marshal Khalifa Haftar to Athens right now. Positive move! I think you should give a clarification, not because there is a problem with the statements by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - whoever goes to the Ministry's site sees exactly what Mr Dendias has said - but because there were misunderstandings during reproduction, Greece does not say that it will send troops, as the Turks say in Libya, but if there is a decision of the European Union on the truce, then we will be participating in efforts to regulate the truce and with the participation of our Armed Forces. Of course, the Prime Minister's statement that it will not allow the decisions of the European Union to be implemented and vetoed will give rise to a reflection. Is she gonna veto her, too, if there's any? Here, there is a contradiction in the statements and because statements are sometimes made in order to avoid criticism, we stress that, with declarations of a communication nature, there is no foreign policy. I repeat, in order to understand each and every one of us: his statement yesterday - which was well heard - that, since we are not going there, what is a derivative of this Berlin Conference is about the Union and if the Union is called to decide to implement it, we will block it. Will we also block the participation of a peacekeeping force, with our own participation in Libya? This is a contradiction, and I must stress it. Now I would like to make another speech, ladies and gentlemen, because from the site I am being informed - a website American - about writing from Syria that two bishops of the Patriarchate of Antiquity who have been missing their luck for many years - one of them has been my personal friend, a gift I have in my office and I look at it, and I am moved, because I remember him - not only have been murdered, but they have both found a martyrial death. I hope it's not true, and his brother...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u193	Where is this information from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u194	Syrian graph in the United States. His brother, now the Patriarch of Antiquity, lives in hope, does not want to admit that death. We all had that hope. But also with this information - and particularly with regard to a death testimonial - I am also indignant about this indignation from the step of the House. As far as the draft law, as a parliamentary representative, is concerned, I will confine myself to reminding some of the points that our rapporteur, George Arvanitidis, and the committee have stressed. I'll appreciate your intervention for business visa 15 days. The fifteen days, as I read, I do not know whether fewer could be done. If something needs to be done faster, why can't we? However, this solution is a very good solution and will help the economy. People have often protested from foreign business that they want to come and visa extradition is a bureaucraticly difficult process, so they don't come. This intervention is therefore a good one. I cannot assess the other amendment. Our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, will be present in this respect. Giorgos Arvanitis is right to say what he says about the United Kingdom as a peculiar, a sui generis case of commonwealth, a commonwealth which is peculiar, but also the pragmatic content of its citizens and policies is special in relation to the rest of Europe. The particular characteristics of its citizens, as well as the characteristics of that country that makes it, must respect them so as to be able to understand what its choices were within the European Union and how its choice was made to leave the European Union, which was a majority of its citizens' choice. Whether by agreement or by agreement, Greece must prepare itself for issues that, as George Arvanitides said well, make up Greek-British everyday life and we must look at as they will be shaped in the next period of time. It is also very good for his intervention as to whether we could motivatedly attract companies to settle in our country who want to leave City and be here. Especially in Piraeus, I think the possibility is too great. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If, Mr President, I have your tolerance, since there is no broad list of speakers, I would like to say a few words about Brexit in itself. The decision by the citizens of that country, although information from documentaries, even from films we have seen, is respected, and this majority in some way has and is undercutting by austerity methods which have escaped the classical methods of communication policy. But respected, it is their decision. Besides, they had the opportunity in the elections to prevent this and not only did they not prevent it, but they strengthened Boris Johnson, who as a demagogue, as one of these new constructions of the policy of the second decade of the 21st century - in Europe, we have many examples and in Greece they ruled this place a few months ago - it was strengthened. So what can one say? It's their decision. Respectful, however, and because of this particular feature that the citizens of the country and that country have - and we are well-known - but also because Cameron's criminal error did not correct it by the opposition, because, although there were forces in the Conservative Party as well as the Labour Party as such, it was against Brexit, the leader of the Labour Party said half of them. No one knew what he was saying. That's why he crashed in the election. No one stood up to stay the country in the European Union. With half-white and proposals which, after the main proposal, are forty-four references, are not made. So a country - the body of power and power of a global empire, which landed on other levels after World War II and has always been hesitant in European developments - has never been a Member State - decided to leave. Ladies and gentlemen, from the causes of the attitude of the citizens, beyond the attitude of the political parties, no one can remove the issue of fear on the top theme of Europe today, which is immigration. In order to deal with immigration in terms of unity, as they say, Vice-Presidents I hear them in the media, we must have agreed that immigration is the main problem. If we do not agree on that, then what unity will we have in dealing with it? We ask for solidarity from others and we have not agreed within us whether this is a top issue and what measures are they to be dealt with effectively? The British had not received a single immigrant from the developments in Syria. But the problems they already have in hearing a possible risk in 2016 set their attitude. They must understand all members of the National Representation that, whatever party, any government decides to leave its people, it is absolutely certain that the people will leave the government, leave the party. I do not agree at all with the words of some Europeans addressing the British people. Oh, no. This decision is not good for the European Union, but we need to deal with things realistically - it is a fact now - and we need to prepare, as we prepare - and that is why we are voting on the draft law - with this legislative initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece has avoided becoming Venezuela because, as I like to say, at the last moment, there have been serious decisions that we also supported as a party at the time, despite the fact that we were the smaller party in this House, a party that had been crushed, because only in the beginning and with other parties then lifted the burden of the crisis. The demagogers, the liars, the "all Boris Johnson" politicians, who have thanked Greece for a few months or years, with great comfort, were taking her to the rocks. The country avoided this calamity and we, as a political organization, also set back in the summer of 2015, in danger and disappear from the political scene. Not only did we disappear, but we are the third party of the Greek Parliament, and we believe that we have a perspective and we will fight for that prospect. We are here, here we are present and present as a parliamentary group to accept, in addition to this legislative initiative, Minister, and to inform you of the implementation. After all, like the draft law itself admits you and all the parties, this is a draft law on a major reason why there is no agreement. Whether there is - as it may appear - or there is not, the implementation of this draft law must be subject to constant observation and acceptance on your part for continuous revision, because we will live the facts, we will live the life of the Greeks and the British who live there, their own here, we will live their daily lives in business, social and economic life and we must face the problems of life itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u195	The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, whom we call on the Step. Mrs McCrey, Mr Güulekas and Mr Theocharis will be followed. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult and sad moment for us at Mera25, as for our partners, our companions, our friends, our partners, the members of the Diem25 pan-European. I want to inform you - because I am sure you will not know - that our movement has more than fifteen thousand British as members as a pan-European movement. All of them are saddened by Britain's withdrawal from the European Union, not because we do not know the vulnerabilities of the European Union, not because we stand out against it very much, but because we believe that the withdrawal from the European Union only of intolerance, racism and centrifuges, which harm many, serves. Allow me, Mr President, before I refer to the bill, to say a little about the causes and significance of Brexit. In 1949-I was taking you to a university in Switzerland - Winston Churchill had made a very well-known reason for not being properly attributed. It's a piece of it. He spoke in favour of the 'United States of Europe'. What is usually hidden is its next phrase, which was: 'Since Britain is not a member of it'. And his thinking, very soon, was that Britain is with Europe, but it is not Europe. Winston Churchill in that speech was a substantial contradiction between British capitalism and mainland capitalism. Very soon British capitalism spontaneously emerged through non-nuclear processes, it was not upward. On the contrary, to remind you, German capitalism - the Bismarck Government - was sometime designed at the cartel base and not competition. In other words, you have a competitive British, Anglo-Saxon capitalism conflicting with a Bismarck-type capitalism that starts with the idea of a cartel. And let us not forget that this idea has been transformed into the European Union. The first form of the European Union was a coal and steel cartel. There has always been Euroscepticism and a British tendency not to be part of the European Union. This has been the case since the beginning, but our crisis and my personal crisis are that it was the euro crisis that pushed Britain out of the European Union. And I will be very specific: take the issue of immigration. Three million European citizens migrated during the crisis - and many of our children, as we know - from mainland Europe to Britain, at a time when the Bank of England, through quantitative relaxation, very possible quantitative relaxation, practically rescued City and the banking sector and created a sense of recovery, but on the other hand, the austerity of the government's fiscal policy Cameron - Osborne sent a very large percentage of the working class, particularly in the north, but not just in the north, and in the coastal cities, on the back of despair. If we combine these two moves, the fact that you have a European Central Bank which from 2008 until 2015 substantially reduces the amount of money in the midst of the worst crisis of European capitalism, while the Bank of England through quantitative relaxation increases the amount of money and you have these migratory flows, in combination with austerity, created, in a large part of British society, the conditions that gave birth to Brexit. And here is worth a mention, because there are very easily comparisons between the concept of Brexit and the concept of Grexit. I would remind you that Grexit was not a Greek movement, there was no real movement in Greece for Grexit. Grexit was a threat that came to us from Brussels, first to the PASOK government and then to all the other governments, that if you don't take this money to give the French German banks on terms, which effectively recycle the bankruptcy of Greek banks and the Greek state and of course the Greek people, then we will throw you out. Brexit was something that was spontaneously born through Britain's society and prevailed because of the foolish management of the euro crisis by the authorities of the European Union. I want to share with you an experience. Before June 2016, when the referendum on Brexit took place, I travelled to Britain, England, Ireland, Wales, Scotland. I did more than thirteen speeches against Brexit, because despite the critical attitude towards the European Union, our movement considers that Brexit is bad for the majority of the British and is bad for the majority of Europeans. Do you know what a reaction I found from people from my audience who came to hear our speeches? We like you, we love you, but we won't do what you tell us. Because after the way the Troika acted in Greece, the way the Greek Parliament was trampled, the Greek referendum, we do not want to be in such a club. Our attitude as a DiEM25, as a Mera25, since the next day of the referendum after our defeat, because we considered the referendum that adopted Brexit and our defeat, our attitude is at least to minimize the cost of Brexit, both for British citizens and for European citizens, Greeks, Germans, French and Portuguese. We have tried to promote the position that, yes, as democrats, we must accept our defeat in the referendum and respect the British people's decision on Brexit. But it was a two-tier decision: yes or no to Brexit. The British people had not taken a decision on what kind of Brexit they wanted, so we worked very systematically with many of us so that we could promote the solution of the so-called 'Norway Plus', Norway Plus. In other words, Britain should stay after Brexit both within the Customs Union, the Customs Union and the single market, to leave types such as Norway is not in the European Union, but to minimise vibrations, both economic and social. To our great regret, the most systemic fans of the European Union in Britain, what we call 'Euroleaves', people who were together against Brexit, but who had no desire to criticise the policies of the European Union, chose something that led to the most impressive self-government in the history of European policy. They have chosen to ignore the June 2016 referendum and since then to put all their eggs into the roll-out basket of the first referendum through a second referendum, with a hindrance to the British Parliament. This was disastrous for all of us who have been struggling and should be struggling and we will continue to strive to keep Britain as close as possible to the institutions of the European Union for the good of the peoples of Europe. The British people ultimately preferred the risk of a hard Brexit, a naughty Brexit, from fearlessness and did not tolerate the cancellation of the popular mandate of the referendum. This marks the choice of Boris Johnson by people who have never voted Conservative Party in the north of England. Our aim is to state this as a PART25, as a Diem25, that Britain's return to a democratised and rationalised European Union and we will work Europe-wide for this. Coming now to your bill, Minister, I would like to say that we note that this is a standard legal text which reminds us of a translation of google translate, which the twenty-seven parliaments were asked to ratify. It goes through the hard line of Brussels against the British decision to leave and is governed by an arrogant attitude and a line that I will say once again - finally strengthened Brexit, strengthened the British' s tendency to leave the European Union. It is possible that such a attitude, which Brussels and Michel Barnier are currently showing, will further strengthen the chances of a new 'deal Brexit' at the end of the year. MARA25 will vote 'yes' at the beginning of your bill and we will vote 'yes' at the outset, because we agree and enhance the freedom of movement of British citizens after the end of the month, when the United Kingdom is effectively leaving the European Union, as well as all other rights which have so far as European Union citizens, i.e. rights to employment, business activity, insurance, social security, health care, driving licences and all of this. But, Minister, we will be negative on the articles, but I stress the reason for our disagreement. Our disagreement with your articles is essentially that these extend the rights of British citizens, but only until the end of the year. You are essentially benefiting from a non-agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. We propose that there should be no expiry date for the extension of the rights of British citizens. Beyond our own approach, as Mera25 and as the pan-European Diem25, to maintaining freedom of movement and beyond our abstention for borders and mantle of people, especially those who are today moving between us with the same rights and obligations, we must not forget the hundreds of thousands of Greeks who live in Britain. A move like this, in other words, extending and maintaining the rights of British citizens in Greece without a time limit, would be an excellent move of goodwill towards London if we were to negotiate a special status for the Greeks who live in the United Kingdom in the near future. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this point you will allow me to turn, while remaining in our country's external relations, on the major issue of topicality, on geopolitical developments in the wider region, namely Libya. Ladies and gentlemen of the Memorandum of Understanding - New Democracy, KINAL, SYRIZA - I fear that you do not feel that your involvement with Libya is progressing in the biggest possible fiasco of recent years, in a fiasco larger than the one which has affected the credibility of our country and the interests of our people, with the attitude of Government and Officer of Opposition earlier during the civil war in Yugoslavia. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, today you accepted General Hufftar here in Athens. It's a modern Karadzic. As in the 1990s, the ultrapatriots embraced Karad Karadzic, alienating the progressive humanist Europeans, Umanist in the world, affecting both the image and the influence of Greece in the 1990s, so today, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, paying tribute to the Libyan warlord, you are also affecting the image of the country and our geostrategic position. How did we get here? In principle, the unholy alliance between Greece and Israel - EXHON - TOTAL of the SYRIZA government. Do you remember when Mr. Tsipras told us that through this agreement for pipelines, natural gas, oil, mining, Greece will become an energy hub and we will be given grounds with the great powers? We, as Mera25, have been warning from the first moment that the Greek people have received no economic benefit from this unholy alliance, only damage, ecological or not. Not only would we have to gain groundwork with the great powers - we were warning - but we would have a huge gift to President Erdogan, as such an agreement, such a lycophilicity, if you would like, with multinational oil companies and with Mr Netanyahu's government is a huge gift in Erdogan's hands, after he solves his hands to strengthen his internal dominance and, at the same time, display his authority with aggressive hegemony in the region. Thirdly, we have warned that you are being caught in procedures that you are not in control. So you release forces you can't manipulate. And if - the unborn - there is a conflict in the Aegean or Libyan, you can be sure that the great powers will not move their little finger in favour of our country, but, on the contrary, they will find them with Erdogan by downgrading Greek interests. Before you chant three, we're sadly confirmed. The unholy alliance of Greece - Israel - EXXON - TOTAL strengthened Erdogan, giving him inside Turkey and the Middle East the alibi to expand his influence in Libya, reaching agreement with the weak false government of Tripoli. The Mitsotakis Government, you ladies and gentlemen, have fallen into the trap, betting everything in the alliance with Warlord Hufftar. You bet when Huffar would overthrow the Tripolis government. You didn't think about it well, as it turns out. You didn't show a trace of soundness. Even Turkey, ladies and gentlemen, who supported and supported the Government of Tripoli and military, had the insight to maintain bridges with the other side. At a press conference on January 11, the Foreign Minister Cavusoglu said: "There is no reason to ignore Haftar. He also has a role to play in Libya," the Turkish Foreign Minister said. In other words, Turkey, while strengthening its enemy and militarily, recognised Haftar's presence in future Libya. What did you do? You have staked everything in a warlord, in Haftar, so when on 8 January Putin and Erdogan jointly called for a truce and a political resolution proposal for the resolution of the crisis, which both sides accepted, Greece entered with its personal responsibility Mr Mitsotakis, the Greek Prime Minister, on the margin of the peace process and developments in the region, a peace process that began in Moscow and is going to take place in Berlin, from which Mr Mitsotakis will obviously be missing because he was excluded from this alliance with Mr Haftar. The only way to serve the interests of Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is to free our country from the unholy alliance of Greece - Israel - EXXON - TOTAL. Stop dreaming of greatness and riches of hydrocarbons in hug with Netanyahu, Cece, Trump and Haftar. We have to say that the bottom of the Eastern Mediterranean will remain intact from drilling holes, that together with the European Union which is already moving at the pace of the Green Agreement we will make Greece a center of burdens on an international renewable energy network that embraces the whole of the Mediterranean and will give us real opportunities to play a peace role and to marginalise those who are following our peace and sovereign rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u199	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u200	I ask for the floor for something that is not personal - I do not want to be out of the Rules of Procedure - but it is insulting to my party. Something the Chief of Mera25 said, and I ask you to speak if you do not give it to me, I will ask for the floor on the Rules of Procedure and I have raised two signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u201	All right, all right, Mr. Loverdo. Let's not get there. Here, you have the floor for a minute. I think that time is enough to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u202	When the party leader talks about a fiasco of three political forces, including the Change Movement, with regard to the policies that we have supported in tackling the crisis arising from the invalid, irresponsible and illegal Turkish and Libyan agreement, it is not only wrong, but extremely insulting. What he said is extremely insulting. I have one argument, I don't need any more. Irrespective of what each party has - which is entitled to have it - on whether or not we have to do research on mineral wealth, if we have to use it or not, in agreement with companies from other countries, regardless of what you say about it, since every party can have its opinion - respecter, we hear it and we are discussing it, we are in favour of making use of these and as PASOK government, and we have taken the relevant initiatives in 2011 - you cannot say that you are denying your sovereign rights, which are, in other words, giving you the opportunity to do these investigations. You can't deny them. What if they offend them with unscrupulous deals, don't you have to defend them? I think that what he said is absolutely insulting. I do not ask for it to be withdrawn, because I imagine that it will not, but at the National Representation, Mr President, anyone from here who has spoken with such an insulting tone, will also inform the President of Parliament. From our side at least we won't accept insults. We shall be asking for the floor, even if we are within the limits of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u203	Good. Mr. Varoufakis, you must answer. Well, please from the Bureau for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u204	I'll be very brief. Mr. Loverdo, you really misunderstood me. Can I give you an example?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u205	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u206	We have no doubt and no objection that we must not only secure our sovereign rights, but also demand them. We, as Mera25, do not disagree, for example, that we should perhaps preach EEZ south of Crete, but not to pierce this EEZ with EXXON, with TOTAL in cooperation with Israel. I've never done this uncomfortable thing for which you blamed me. We are talking about ensuring sovereign rights, but not about puncing, within the framework of a green energy network.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u207	Explanations were given, Mr. Loverdos by Mr. Varoufakis. I think it's over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u208	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u209	The New Democracy MP, Mrs Zetta Makri, has the floor. The Minister of Tourism Mr. Theocharis will then be followed by Mr. Giulekas, as we said before, and we will continue to do so. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Before going to the bill under discussion, I would like to praise Mr Loverdos for the very philanthropic words he has said for reasons of justice for the choice of our President for the Presidency of the Republic, which, of course, are of particular value from an experienced political and distinguished legal value and to say that I, as a Member of the New Democracy, am pleased and enthusiasm for this right choice of our President. However, I would like to praise you, Mr Loverdos, and also for another reason: for the soberingness and firmness with which you have voiced your objections for our foreign policy. I do not endorse your concern about the adequacy of diplomacy or your objection to the fact that the Prime Minister's statements are clear. Diplomacy is present, the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is firm and the Prime Minister is clear. But you are offering the quality of parliamentary dialogue in the way you object and I regret that praise is limited to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the new year begins with the need to legislate to shield the country in the event of a retreat of the United Kingdom by the European Union. It was also mentioned by the State Secretary responsible in his place. It's our first bill. Unfortunately, it is the first Member State to come out of Europe of the twenty-eight and, therefore, such a development not only has caused major turbulence on the European political scene, but has also absorbed significant political, diplomatic and economic capital in all the Member States. In the last three years, we have been following the constant developments, but also the fierce and agonizing negotiations of the United Kingdom's governments with Brussels, in order to ensure the agreement of withdrawal. Let's not be fooled. The steps towards Brexit are steps in uncharted waters and Brexit will cost us all no matter how well we are prepared. At this point we should congratulate the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the State Secretary responsible, Mr Varvitsiotis, who coordinated and intensified the preparation of this legislative initiative. This initiative regulates a number of many and varied issues, but uncertainties are also being resolved to deal with a naughty Brexit. But bet on this effort remains not only the management and maintenance of the excellent relations between Greece and the United Kingdom, but also the strengthening and improvement of them, even though they are still a sudden scenario of not reaching an agreement. The two countries have been associated for many decades with close economic, commercial and human ties, and relations are now at risk of being tested in the process. So what are the consequences of a non-agreement for Greece? Obviously, he'll create new data. Many important companies of Greek interest invest and operate in the UK, while the Greek retail sector, which is also associated with the increased number of Greeks living there, is being found. Similarly, a significant number of British companies in our country have invested in sectors such as telecommunications, retail trade, health, tourism, financial services and primary production. It is also interesting that the private investment sector in the property sector, in fact in the summer housing sector, is also interesting. London is, moreover, a key source of capital for bond issues, but also searches for investors, financial or non-financial, since around 44% of Greek bonds are being moved through London. In the tourism sector, our country is one of the most popular recreation destinations of the British, which are traditionally among the three most important customers for the Greek tourism product. Approximately 10% of tourist arrivals come from the United Kingdom, while 2017 was a landmark year, as the three million British tourist dam broke. Of course, the collapse of "THOMAS COOK" a few months ago gives a foretaste of what can be done in the event of a naughty Brexit. In the maritime sector, some sixty Greek companies have representation offices in London, which are active in both the British and the international market. In recent years we have achieved a partial repatriation of shipping companies through incentives, but also due to adverse changes in the British tax system. The maritime sector is at the top of the British interest, as the City offers a wide range of financial, insurance and legal services to shipping, which it reasonably wishes to continue to provide as easily as possible. In the financial sector, although there is a limited direct report of the Greek financial system in the United Kingdom, the indirect consequences of hard exiting from the European Union may lead to a deterioration in the financing conditions of banks in stricter economic conditions and a negative growth prospects. What, however, are the prospects for further developing bilateral trade in goods and services between Greece and the United Kingdom after Brexit? It is the support of our traditional Greek products, which is very important. We should therefore seek to expand products, to use new innovative and innovative packaging and to differentiate them qualitatively. We should also present investment opportunities and opportunities for our country in both the public sector and private investment projects, because these are of key importance. The financial services sector, the insurance sector and the support services sector to businesses also offer many opportunities for cooperation and development of foreign investments. Of course, any debate on our relationship with Great Britain following its exit from the European Union does not stop by voting on this initiative. Obviously, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also arranged for a large number of bilateral agreements to deal with safety, health and education problems. In the context of education in particular, many issues of reciprocity will be raised, because we are interested in Greeks staying unreservedly in Britain, teachers studying or serving in the British educational system. Already the Ministry of Education has made a number of arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, with the departure of a large country, such as the United Kingdom, Europe, as the great European leaders have envisioned in the 1960s, as we European citizens have built it up and lived in the last decade, there will no longer be. Let us hope that the other Member States will take care and act actively, wisely so that Brexit's move does not affect the structure of a united Europe in the long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u211	Mr Gülekas Konstantinos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago the country's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, met with the leader of the National Libyan Army, General Hafftar, and there was another meeting with the Foreign Minister, Mr. Dendia. We are going through a period of particular tension in our neighbourhood, in our area, in the Eastern Mediterranean and, of course, we are facing the provocation that we are facing from the neighbour's side of Turkey. So, because I feel the Presidency's responsibility in Parliament's Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs, I should like to respond to what has been heard with real anxiety - and I do not doubt the sincere intentions of all Members - what we are doing, what we are doing, where our allies are, in relation to the forthcoming meeting in Berlin, I would like to say: Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced, after all these years and in the political life of the country, that what Greece is doing today is what Greece is doing and how Greece can be ready to face every challenge, every risk. I say this because of course we are relying on our alliances, of course we honour our alliances, but in any case we must be ready. And we're working in that direction. Greece, in fact, ensures its peace by trying to maintain the integrity of the country's Armed Forces, which is, in fact, the most important deterrent factor, for anyone who would like to applaud our national sovereignty. I say this because while we - and quite rightly so - are insisting on the application of international law, we see that some other countries, like the eastern neighbours, are counting on power. So it is not enough to keep the principles of international law, of good neighbourliness, but you must also have the power. That's what we do. We are increasing our strength to respect our own positions in people and states who want to cause problems in the region. So what do we, what we do in our region, what we do in the European Union now that this United Kingdom decision actually creates a very bad precedent in the European family, in the European Union and, of course, it can have some consequences, which perhaps not all of us, all of us European citizens, can predict throughout their lives. So what we are doing today is what we are doing, what Europe really is being shaken up by the United Kingdom's decision. Do not forget that this also enables extremist circles to create an anti-European debate trying to convince that the European structure is falling. Here we must, the people we believe in united Europe and the need to have a united Europe, firstly - firstly to remember how this structure began by the great visionaries who, after the end of World War II, decided with political solutions to move on with what European communities once were and today moved into the European Union. We are sincerely pleased - for us it is an honour and a pleasure - that we belong to a party, the party founded by the great Macedonian politician, Constantine Karamanlis, who, against all those who once told us that we should not move on to the European structure, Karamanlis insisted on joining Greece as an equal member of the European family. Think today where we would be if we were running to search for only bilateral alliances without being an equal member and one of the oldest and hard core of the European Union. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need an answer to what we are doing, and in the case of this British project coming out of Europe, a project which we must admit has upset us all, because the British themselves have shown that they did not know what they want. And so far, no one can be absolutely sure what Britain will do. Hopefully. The scenario of a naughty Brexit has been minimized, but we must of course prevent everything. I am sincerely pleased, Minister, at this point I would really like to congratulate you, the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the government that we support and support has really taken care of since the first days of its taking up its duties to prevent all such potential. And it was very important that you proceeded to anticipate situations that would be absolutely unpleasant, not only for our national economy, but would be absolutely unpleasant in general for our progress in the European Union, since the United Kingdom was, and still remains, a very large country with a very strong economy, a country with which Greece has very traditional friendly relations and which we want to maintain with the new regime they choose - and, of course, this is absolutely respected on our part - British citizens. It is something that is their inalienable right. So from the very beginning it has been important that the conditions under which we can operate, whether in the case of the naughty Brexit - which I repeat now seems to be a distant scenario, but it cannot be ruled out - or in the case of Britain's agreed exit. Of course, after the last elections and the triumph that Boris Johnson came out of Britain, the United Kingdom, it does seem that this scenario is moving further and further away. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We, therefore, shield our country with this bill. I do not want to speak in detail about the articles, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteurs have done so. All this has been adequately covered, the predictions and the forecasts, but in any case it is important to move coordinates, predicting what could bring home, but also to the great European family, the possibility of a Brexit in whatever form the British agree to first of all. We are also prepared to deal with Brexit under favourable, normal conditions, namely an agreed exit, but also a naughty Brexit. In this sense, I think - and I am glad that the country's political world, almost in its entirety - will always be different - has found a common place of understanding to deal with this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u213	The Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis, has the floor. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u214	Just a little time, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u215	Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u216	That's enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill in which none of us, I want to believe, is happy that there is a need to discuss it. The European Union, our European home, cannot be happy when we follow a process, after the referendum, at the end of which the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. As you know, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the so-called Brexit, is the most important natural issue for united Europe, not necessarily given the geostrategic developments in our region and the most important thing in the current news. The Prime Minister had the meeting today with Marshal Hufftar and we see that despite criticism the Greek diplomacy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is constantly active, constantly moving to bring the maximum and best possible results for our country. In order to return to our issue of the United Kingdom, therefore, the exit affects united Europe as an act, but also as an idea. The United Kingdom will no longer be a member of the European Union formally, at least in a few days' time, on 31 January. This date is, however, the beginning rather than the end of the withdrawal process, which is due to be completed by 31 December 2020 at the latest. The required processes are highly complex and sensitive. The European Parliament has already expressed its concern about the rights of citizens of the European Union, who are established in the United Kingdom. At the same time, there is a large number of issues for the British to move to the countries of the United Europe. As far as the Greek Government and especially our Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Tourism is concerned, it should be stressed that since the first day we have taken office, we have been studying intensively and working out ways for the smoothest possible transition to the new situation. The treatment of possible side effects of Brexit in Greek tourism has been high above the priority of the British market. And, because Mr KINAL has also referred to it - it is not here - the issues of the British market, let me say a few words about that too. Let me remind you that the current of visitors from the United Kingdom alone in 2018 produced almost EUR 2 billion and a little more this year. This is more than 1% of our country's GDP. It is therefore quite clear that the British market is one of the largest tourist resources for our country. The British are generally in the first three places among the foreign visitors who come to Greece. The United Kingdom is still the second most profitable source of tourism income for Greece. Over the last three years the British have been strengthening our economy with about EUR 2 billion each year. At the same time, Britain is a country particularly developed in the air services sector. With the bill which is currently being introduced into the Greek Parliament to vote, the laws are adapted to the new situation for the post-Brexit period. In particular, Article 6, which deals with tourist enterprises, regulates the business status of British citizens or legal persons based in Britain. Persons and undertakings are granted the right under the law for the period up to 31/12-2020 to engage in business tourist activities provided for as cases (c), (d) and (e) in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of Law No 4276/2014. In simple terms, in British businesses, tourist agencies, rental offices, rental companies for motorcycles, three-wheeled vehicles and four-wheeled vehicles in Greece, a reasonable timeframe is available for adapting them to Brexit. However, by the end of the departure deadline, the European Union may have found a way to solve the issue of British companies in Greece and across Europe. With regard to Article 5 of the draft law on the recognition and exchange of driving licences, every British person can continue to drive to Greece with the permission he had obtained in his home country. This measure is considered particularly positive in relation to the rental of vehicles in our country by rental agencies, leasing companies, etc., by British tourists. More generally - and I shall end, Mr President - we would say that the bill that we are discussing today in this House is very positive because it gives time for the European Union, on its part, to take the appropriate steps towards a bilateral solution. The bill also gives time to plan the necessary actions for the least possible losses in both the airlines sector and the tourism sector in general. Finally, it is of course good to hear about a revision of the European Union visa regulation, which enables British citizens to visit for tourist purposes for ninety days within an eighty-eight days completely free period, without a visa, visa or other formalities. This is crucial and very important to us since 2021 that the regulation is changing and requires much more time-consuming procedures for third countries and of course we also have an adjustment procedure that is in full progress. For all this, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you, too, to vote in favour of this positive bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u217	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, thank you very much. To start with from the speech by President of the Parliamentary Group we have heard him call Karadzic General Haffar, he has spoken of unholy alliances, ecological damage. I don't know, but I heard the most philosopherous presidential party of the Greek Parliament with what he said. ‘Not in oil’, ‘not in mineral wealth’, accused Israel, ‘Karajic Hafftar’. Obviously, this President of the Parliamentary Group thinks he is chairing a party in Switzerland and not in Greece. He probably doesn't know exactly where he is. I should like to say to my colleague, Mr Loverdos, who is not here, but we have heard that he suddenly remembered the Change Movement and Andrew Loverdos as a parliamentary representative of Russia. So we heard him say that Russia could play a role in favour of us, said Mr Lovers. But he began his speech and said that we have imposed an embargo on Russia. These two little can't be combined. Decide. And a third thing I have heard - because I have been here since this morning - and it concerns Mr Varvitsiotis and the debate we had earlier. The Minister's not here, but I'm sure his partners will take it to him. I would just like to keep in mind your colleagues and, in the light of Mr Varvitsiotis, there is also a statement from your own Member. He is a prominent member of the Government of New Democracy, a MP and one of the most prestigious inter-ethnicists, Mr Angelos Syrigos, and I hope that you will agree with that. On 15 January he said that it would be difficult to get rid of the Turkey- Libya agreement. Mr. Angelos Syrigos said so. I hope it doesn't come true. Our special speaker, Mr Villardos, analysed Brexit, and our President made a report. I will go to a very important subject to which the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement has referred, the top theme of Europe that is currently working and is nothing more than the illegal immigration that we have been living in recent years. And I would like to say to the New Democracy and the New Democracy Government that as much as you make up your mind, and if you try to change your agenda as much as you give the rhythms to your friends who are facing you channels and the media, reality doesn't change, the problem remains, it's there, it's the same and even bigger. The reality is, unfortunately, that you are, gentlemen, in panic. You've been in panic since the first day you took over until today. And if you want to hide the truth from the Greeks, we with as much power as the ten MPs that we are in here will call it what the situation is. I will not go into the details of what is happening on the Greek islands, but also on the mainland. We've been through it a dozen times. I will say, however, that within six months you have achieved the impossible. You managed to get worse on this very important issue than SYRIZA did. That's a world record. You've come to see me that you're going to solve the problem and you've done worse. So if there were any, Oscar failure, we'd have given it to you today. Nor were you deported, nor did you deport the NGOs, nor did you, nor did you, nor did you, a closed border in Evros, anything. Our borders are'rebette ascer'. You didn't do anything at all. Turkish porters harass and take weapons to Greek fishermen, and of course at the same time those who illegally enter our country eat and drink in the health of the suckers with free houses and free of charge. Mrs. Domnas Michailidou's FEK is here. At 31-12-2019 in the time Greeks opened their champagne, the lady was passing VEK to spend the children under the age of eighteen, sixteen, seventeen, seventeen, seventeen - may be twenty and twenty one because they enter without passports in these children - to have all the privileges, such as computers, psychological support, toasters, coffee makers, etc. Here's to suckers. It took you six months to understand what reality is out on the ground and how difficult our country is going through. We called it from the first day here. So, what will change now that you're recommending the Ministry of Immigration again? What's it gonna change? Will the flow stop? Will illegal immigrants suddenly stop in? What will change in relation to what you've done so long? You changed your plan every week. A plan, second plan, third plan, fourth plan, you change Ministers, make them Undersecretaries, take the army, put others in, take ships from your shipowners' friends, more intensive patrols, and, and.. Mr. Stephanie's gone, put in some wires. I would like to say to you a little bit and reply to Mr Lebanese, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, who is not here today, but we were yesterday on a television show and he challenged me and said, 'Mr. Heta, I would like you to bring me photos'. I want to present them to the Minutes and get Mr. Lebanese to them. Here are photos of Ennatia Street Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis investors four - four, five - five walk. And here are today's photos, Macedonian Tempes today. They're boobs all over the place. I would ask that Mr Lebanese be given because I have my word. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why don't they report on the channels for the new diseases that we thought have disappeared, but have they reappeared? Nobody's talking. Why don't you tell the Greeks that within a 10-kilometre radius around Moria illegal immigrants have ripped out everything that reminds us of Orthodoxy? They have devastated crosses, destroyed graves, desecrated images. Until the top of the mountain they climbed up and ripped the cross from the small church of Prophet Elias. Why don't you tell the Greeks that in Samos they've cut whole forests, that they've devastated the forests? Do you know what the mistake is? You think that because you have the influence on some media, you can twist or hide the image that exists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute or two, Mr President. Anyway, we're loose today. Five nomadics are in here. If you think you're going to tell the truth that Moria is closing, let me tell you this, except for the Greeks' representative as a Greek MP, my profession is a journalist, so that demonium I can't stop. You know what? I'm looking for it a lot, and I have people in Moria, who know what they sent me? They have sent me the photographs which I shall be tabling - and they are colored - to see them, ladies and gentlemen - which I would like to say nothing but that Moria will close. Yesterday's date. Five three-axle trucks of the Greek Army - if you have your God! - by "Greek Army" signs, they unloaded new tents, clothes, blankets, various types, which lead us to conclude that Moria does not just close, but what is the worst, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Greeks and Greeks? Our phantoms, our Armed Forces have become the "governments" of them. Look at the pictures. It's shocking. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. It's really tragic. Colour photographs taken through Moria by a man who works there. I'm saying this from the Step of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is also a dumpster - yesterday's photograph - which is filled with sealed portions of food thrown - of course not pork, lentils were yesterday's menu - when there are homeless Greeks starving. I present this to Mr Lebanese and other colleagues in the New Democracy. Unfortunately, all of this is part of the reality and I know that no one in here disagrees with the inconsistent elements I have presented to you today. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This reality, however, we will fight not to hide it from the Greek people and we propose solutions to prevent the destruction of Greece. Throw out the NGOs. Finish. Set strong counterstimulators. Create unsatisfactory conditions in our country so that they don't come, not to take out the four hundred euros from the bank and send photographs from ATMs to Turkey against anyone else coming to heaven for them. Send them to uninhabited islands with structures. Do strict checks and immediately deport the illegals, so we can get done, or we're destroyed. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u219	Mr Melas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's Foreign Ministry's bill concerns the preparation of our country for Brexit, no doubt an historic moment for the history of the European Union, the European building, of our common family. This bill takes all the necessary steps to be prepared to deal with the new data that will be generated after Brexit, having calculated all possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Brexit, as I have said, is a historic moment for the European Union, but it is also a historic opportunity for our country, an opportunity for extrovert, and we can use an opportunity for national benefit a Europe's existential crisis, to exploit the gap created and the uncertainty that prevails between businesses and economic operators in Great Britain. We must therefore use the comparative advantages of Greece, the unparalleled advantages of the largest port in the country, Piraeus. Currently shipping companies from City of London are looking for headquarters in other countries. Here, then, is a glorious field, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Instead of these enterprises as an alternative to having Cyprus or Malta, we need to bring Piraeus to the top of their choices, to turn Piraeus from the first port of the country into a leading maritime centre in the Mediterranean, to create an international, ever-growing and competitive shipping centre, to turn Piraeus into what is historically meant to be, in a maritime centre of international standards with international radiation, in a maritime and business centre located in an ideal geostrategic position, in a commercial and energy hub between Europe, Asia and Africa. We are the gateway to Europe and the link between East and West. That is our strategic advantage, which we should take advantage of. It is therefore a first-class opportunity to create a maritime and business centre worthy of Greek shipping. Greek shipping dominates worldwide and is the biggest emblem in China's prevalence. Representatives are the data of the last annual report of the Hellenic Shipowners Association. The Greek-owned fleet represents 53% of the European Union's fleet and almost 21% of the world's fleet. Also, according to the 2019 Review of Maritime Transport, the United Nations Conference, the Greek-owned fleet comes first in the world, reaching a figure of 4.536 ships. Greek shipping is national capital. Greek shipowners are a timeless benefactors of the Greek nation. They have a multidimensional and multidimensional offer in the Greek state and in Greek society. It is therefore important to shape all the conditions necessary to achieve this. It is something both expressed by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and it is something that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the Government of New Democracy, is working on. This can and must be achieved through the creation of a stable fiscal, institutional and legal framework, which will remain the same, regardless of the changes of governments, by creating strong specific tax incentives, which are competitive with other countries, with a stable and friendly legislative framework for the registration of ships operating maritime transport in the Greek register - and something very important - through the creation of a special economic zone in Piraeus for professions and companies connected with the maritime sector, with the construction of a modern judicial palace in our town, with the further development of Piraeus as a centre for Greek shipping, with the decisive strengthening of academic and professional maritime education and with the substantial and further upgrading of the Department of Maritime Studies of the University of Piraeus. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be understood that shipping and Piraeus are inextricably linked. It cannot and must not be the largest port in Greece and the largest port in the eastern Mediterranean can be the sole privilege of only one company, one country. The investment that "COSCO" has made in the port of Piraeus is very important, but our aim is not to make Piraeus a Chinese colony. We want Piraeus to become an ecosystem of large investors from all over the world that will create many well-paid jobs. However, it is necessary that the benefits of this significant investment of 'COSCO' begin to be perceived in the daily lives of the citizens and that 'COSCO' supports local society substantially. The conversion of Piraeus into an international shipping centre will internationally upgrade the city of Piraeus, as well as our country as a whole. At the same time, many jobs will be created. It must be pointed out, however, that this will not only work as a lever for growth. It will also serve as a factor in upgrading the geostrategic role of our country in the area of south-eastern Europe and the Mediterranean. It will strengthen our role and turn Greece into a powerful player of the international system. Ladies and gentlemen, Piraeus and shipping can and must become a "motor" of growth for all of Greece. For our Government it is a key strategic choice to develop strong and we have proved this by actions and not by words. Besides, the Prime Minister himself yesterday sent a message of optimism and development, highlighting the importance and role of the port not only for the progress and development of Piraeus, but overall for the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we can make a leap faster than dread. We can transform this historical, institutional change into the functioning of the European Union as an opportunity for Greece. To turn Piraeus into an international shipping centre and change the course of economic history with a positive print. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u221	The Minister for Finance, Mr. Vessiropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the British decision to leave the European Union creates a new reality. A new reality, which will undoubtedly have an impact on the field of economic activity, trade, the movement of persons, goods and services. Impacts that a responsible government has to deal with in time. The draft law we are debating today is a first institutional intervention in this direction, in view of the new reality that has been created. Let me remind you that Law 4604/2019 has, in fact, become unprecedented and impractical since the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union led to the extension of the United Kingdom's stay in the European Union and the postponement of its departure date from 31-3-2019, which was the original end date for 31-10-2019 and then for 31-1-2020. Moreover, at this juncture, even a few weeks before the intended date of completion of the relevant procedure, i.e. 31 January 2020, there is still uncertainty about the conditions for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the so-called Brexit. The preparation of our country, in order to deal with the consequences of Brexit on its economy, is a debate which must of course be done. Today, however, we are discussing a draft law, which must be voted on, since a new regulatory framework for the rights of British citizens in Greece has been established since the end date of 31 January 2020 and since the United Kingdom's final withdrawal agreement with the European Union has not been reached. We must be prepared for all the data, so that there are no turbulences and we can lead to a smooth transition to the next day, even if there is no final agreement. This is because in Greece there are British citizens, but also British firms, for which issues are raised: the recognition of a right of residence, their insurance status, the provision of nursing and medical care, the recognition of driving licences for holders who have their usual residence in Greece and who are issued or to be issued by the United Kingdom and the business tourism activity in Greece by natural persons who are citizens of the United Kingdom or legal persons who have their registered office in the United Kingdom. In this bill, there are two articles which fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance and which I would particularly like to refer to. This is Article 7, which focuses on the need to maintain the stability of the financial system and to protect investors in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, without reaching a withdrawal agreement. This article allows UK-based financial sector companies that freely provide related services or carry out activities in Greece with an installation or cross-border activity to continue to provide services and to carry out their activities until 31/12-20 if no agreement is reached. A period considered sufficient to avoid unwanted complications. Apart from the financial sector, the scope of this arrangement is extended to investment activities and services, as well as services related to the execution, settlement and clearing of transactions under contracts - framework or other financial contracts, but also other categories specifically described in Article 7(2) of the draft law. It is also envisaged that the financial sector, new services or their involvement in trading venues and systems other than those which participated before the date of departure should be prohibited. This prohibition does not include activities such as the transfer, renewal and management of financial positions which have expired and which are considered necessary to renew them either partially or in whole. Article 8 of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, reflects the Government's desire to strengthen customs services with staff and the Independent Public Revenue Authority as a result of the forthcoming withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Provisions allowing the transfer of personnel to such services shall be introduced by means of a prior notice and the recruitment of permanent staff by participants of AACC 1C/2017. Aid to staff of these services is necessary since the volume of customs controls following Brexit will be maximised. At the same time, support with staff contributes to identifying and combating smuggling phenomena and collecting excises on alcohol, tobacco and fuels by increasing public revenues and protecting public health and the environment. You will allow me a reference to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance aimed at resolving the problem created by real estate transfers due to the threatened fines to the notaries on issues of the use of an inaccurate ENPI certificate. Our aim, with this amendment, is to address sufficient distortions and to create a rational framework. What we are trying to do is rationalise fines, with the provision that no fines should be imposed if, from the use of the incorrect HPAI certificate, there is no loss of tax on the public. Furthermore, it is now explicitly laid down that an incorrect certificate will be the one in which the tax identity of the property or property is not correctly illustrated. The concept of the tax identity of the property, which will now be understood as all the information contained in the real estate statement, (E9), which impact on the correct calculation of the tax, shall also be redefined. The application of the provisions of Articles 47, 48 and 49 of Law 4646/2019, the tax bill that we have voted on, is also suspended until 30-620, and concerns mainly the completion of the declarations of transfer of real estate, heritage, donations, parental benefits and property by notaries. This is done in order to start the application of these Articles to the imminent remodelling of the framework for determining the objective values of the real estate. Moreover, this gives a reasonable time to professionals involved in transfers, such as notaries, in order to familiarize themselves with the new circumstances and the market as a whole with the new regime. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the provisions of this bill can reach broad consensus. The issue of the impact of Brexit on our internal market must be tackled preventively, even when there is uncertainty about the withdrawal agreement. The government moves in this direction, with the aim of moving to the post-Brexit era, in a coordinate and smooth manner for Greece and our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u223	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, I would like to add a phrase to the farewell article, which says that the provisions of this Law apply from their publication in the Official Journal of the Government. The words ‘unless otherwise specified in its individual provisions’ shall be added.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the bill introduced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concerning the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, with the majority of the articles dealing with an unscrupulous withdrawal. In the text we have in our hands, we have the full reflection of the most intransigent positions of the hard cores of the European Union, which aim to serve all policies with short-term benefits for a few, for the European oligarchy, which will in the long term be in favour of strengthening anti-European populism and extreme right-wing voices, both inside and outside the United Kingdom, at the same time as the possibility of post-Brexit era remains many and open. DiEM25, the pan-European movement for the democratisation of Europe, which is part of the Mera25, since the beginning, since 2016, has developed an integrated position and attitude by recognising the high importance of such a move and having an extremely local movement, as our Secretary mentioned earlier. He fought with all his forces for the victory of Bremain in the June 2016 referendum. Our consistent attitude was to recognise the false dilemma between the withdrawal of the European Union, which would bring about the democratic reconstruction of the country or the residence that would hold it captive of a non-democratic Union, at the same time that David Cameron was trying to convince the British that they could remain strong players of the European market, having returned to the cocoon of the nation - state, a promise that no one yet knows whether to achieve it. Our view then, but now, is that Britain should and should remain in the European Union and unite its efforts with other democratic voices in order to achieve the objective of democratisation of the institutions, practices, the status quo of the Union, while a withdrawal, especially naughty, would speed up this decomposition. The Diem25 campaign managed to unite people with different ideological origins belonging to different political parties, but people who brought them close to hope and faith that united we can change things rather than fear and intolerance. However, the British voted in favour of leaving their country from the European Union and DiEM25, as a deeply democratic movement, and many ideas were put forward at the table. The final option that emerged from a pan-European internal vote was that there should be a transitional period from five to seven years, a period during which both the United Kingdom and the European Union would be able to change to something completely new and more progressive. As democrats we had to accept the result of the referendum from the outset. Trying to overthrow it through a second vote would be equal to what the European Union has done to the Irish people with the Treaty of Lisbon, that is to say, to continue repeating the question until they give the'sound answer'. Since the citizens have decided that their country should leave, this would have to be done through a coordinate procedure to ensure on the one hand economic stability and on the other hand to protect the thousands of students, workers and many others who live in England, but are from other European Union countries, as well as the British citizens who live outside the United Kingdom. Recognising all these parameters we have been clear from the outset. We must respect the popular verdict in full, without demonising the citizens for their choice, but ensure that the withdrawal is organised in order to reduce the impact and side effects and that the British citizens have the greatest power to choose and define their country's post Brexit relationships with the European Union. In the years following the activation of Article 50 and the referendum, unfortunately the political situation in the United Kingdom has become increasingly tense. The voices of our comrades of the United Kingdom are possible and everyone says the same thing, namely that Boris Johnson's only goal is to destabilise the British economy, privatise public services and deprive as many rights as possible of state protection by the citizens so that the United Kingdom can become a neoliberal paradise in the EU's present. In contrast to this grief which is being attempted, voices must emerge and unite which reiterate that the only sustainable and reasonable solution is to give more time and to develop a more democratic process that will protect the United Kingdom, but also the European Union. So why, as Mera25 at the same time as saying that the European Union is falling apart, were we in favour of Britain's stay? The answer is very simple. Yes, we believe that the European Union is decomposing, but we firmly believe that we must remain and fight, fight to improve the situation. We abominably reject the possibility of returning centuries back to the States - nations, since such a move would have incalculable economic, political and diplomatic consequences. That's why we supported British stay. Ladies and gentlemen, considering the possibility of a post-Brexit period, but also the fact that the popular will of the British people was expressed in 2016, we proposed, as Yiannis Varoufakis said before, the adoption of an agreement similar to that of Norway, which would ensure a mild and non-destructive Brexit while maintaining the customs union and involving Britain in the Union's single market. We believe that this would be the ideal solution to make a smooth withdrawal, in line with the wishes of the British citizens, while at the moment when this process has been completed, the British could also have in their minds and know that they will also be in the future important allies and assistants to the completion of our goal, as described in the MERA25 Manifesto, for a Europe of democratic, social, dynamic, open and time-consuming, where decision-making will be full and not euphemistically democratic. In conclusion, I would like to focus on something I have heard before the colleague of the New Democracy, the MP of the First Region of Piraeus, Mr. Mela. I am a member of the Board of Governors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of We will agree and we are in favour of growth, but not of laundering, because it is very nice to say that a shipping company in England, City or more could open offices in Greece. But let's think about what Piraeus we want to bring them. Can we bring them to an Piraeus without transport, where the main municipalities of Piraeus Two have only one road, a no-metro avenue, no tram, no traffic jam, with ready-to-eat buildings, with a high rate of unemployment, with a high percentage of air pollution from casinos that either operate in hospitals, such as the State of Nice, where patients find worms in their food, with municipalities that do not even have health structures, such as Perama, Keracini, which is now building the post-fire health centre, where garbage is a stable problem, in a Piraeus with a particularly increased crime, where most of the police buildings are with static problems and endowed? So let us focus on dealing with these problems first and then aim to attract investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u227	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. We are at a time of serious but also worrying developments in the wider region, a time that is characterised by the intensity of competition, contrasts, the exacerbation of conflicts between the various strong imperialist centres in the Eastern Mediterranean - conflict marked by the control of energy sources, energy and trade - a time which is particularly marked by the new Greek American defence cooperation agreement, a defensive agreement of course signed by the New Democracy Government, while the previous government, the SYRIZA government, which not only upgrades the role of existing US bases and especially Souda, but also creates new military bases, thus expanding our country's military facilities to the Americans and naval imperialists, as well as to Greece's militarisation and resilience. In other words, it turns it into an advanced penitentiary for the new dangerous drug addiction. These developments confirm that the various claims made by the other parties, government, Civic Opposition, Change Movement, that Greece's role is being upgraded, that it is a factor of stability, that we have very strong allies that will support our interests, such as the United States and the European Union, that they break down as a paper tower and are very far from the reality we are experiencing. This is also confirmed by developments in relation to the International Conference in Berlin on the future of Libya. Who are organizing this International Conference? The same imperialist forces who have taken care to destroy and disperse Libya and have destroyed it and dispersed it, are now discussing Libya's future. What a hypocrisy! They were interested today in Libya's future after plundering it. But for what purpose are these imperialist forces negotiating at the International Conference? They are negotiating to control the rich sources of energy in Libya and, of course, neither is stability in the region nor much more about the future of the Libyan people. And any compromises resulting from this conference, if compromises are reached, will of course be fragile compromises because the interests are too great and the contradictions are even greater. This very organisation of the conference shows that there is not only an international isolation of Turkey, as the other political parties claim, but on the contrary that Turkey plays a very substantial role in the wider region, it is a great force for the Americans and NATO to allow it to leave the allied arms and to move more and more towards Russia. And that is why they tolerate its aggression, keeping equal distances between Greece and Turkey. Indeed, yesterday, the Americans came to the point of speaking about Greek claims in maritime zones. At the same time, they accept the signing of unacceptable agreements such as the one made between Turkey and Libya for the definition of maritime zones in violation of International Maritime Law. Here today was expressed the anguish of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Movement of Change, as well as of the Greek Solution of Mr. Velopoulos, of the need for Greece to participate in the International Conference. It's their common place. But if Greece were to participate in this joint conference what would happen? What is the purpose of our country's civil order seeking its participation? It is precisely because such participation serves the pursuits for the participation of Greek businesses in the sharing of prey, to take a piece of the prey and the negotiation that will take place in relation to Libya's energy sources. But such discussions, such international conferences certainly do not give any benefit to stability and peace in the region. Not only do we defend our country's sovereign rights, but they also represent the legend to create serious problems in our sovereign rights. From this point of view, it is a very dangerous statement that today's statement by the Foreign Minister highlighting the Government's intention to send Armed Forces to Libya on the basis of the agreement to be made. That is the way Mr Treasury's statement is delivered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u229	In which he'll veto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u230	What does that mean? That this is an escalation, a deeper involvement of our country in imperialist planning, and certainly no benefit will be gained for the sovereign rights of our country. It is a statement that took place as a result of the visit by Hufftar to Greece, a visit that was welcomed by the other parties, as if General Huffttar was the factor of stability in the region, as if he was not negotiating with the various imperialist centres about how to share the prey. And from this point of view, we consider that both the attitude of the government and the attitude of SYRIZA and the other forces that characterise Haffar's visit to our country confirms once again that all these political forces are bred to the neck in the boulder of dangerous imperialist planning. The only way out for defending our country's sovereign rights for the benefit of the people and peoples of the wider region is precisely the opposition to the dangerous imperialist planning, the release of Greece from NATO and, of course, the non-reliance of the repressive and dangerous new Greek-American military agreement. In this context of the most comprehensive developments we need to see the developments that exist at European Union level, as they are marked by Brexit. Of course, as a JRC, we do not say, as the other parties did, all the other parties in the Euromonstrate, about the lost European Union price because of Brexit. Brexit is nothing but the expression of the very acute contradictions within the European Union, which are becoming more and more acute because of the anisometry that occurs within the European Union, which is the cause of centrifuges within the European Union. And from this point of view it is not only a disorientation but also an outrage of the European Union itself and its character as a wolf alliance against the peoples of Europe, but also a whole and abundantly responsible for all these developments, that the austerity policies followed for the management of the crisis, when these policies were precisely necessary to give way to conditions of capitalist crisis and to meet the needs of business groups, multinationals, monopolies for even cheaper labour force. Because so, through these policies, a number of working, insurance and trade rights have been smashed in the name of the armoring of the competitiveness of capitalist enterprises, in the name of the stronger capitalist profit. These developments essentially confirm that both the cosmopolitanism of capital expressed in the motto: 'We live in the European Union' and the nationalism of capital expressed through the Eurosceptic current in the European Union is nothing but the two sides of the same reactionary currency, which is the shell of a capitalist system, which, of course, creates more and more problems for the people. From this point of view, we are clearly saying that a number of claims have been made by the Greek people, but also by the people of Europe over the past period, that the European Union is a one-way path for the people of Europe, that the European Union is the common home of Europe - our common home - that the European Union is the same as Europe. What Europe is this, without the United Kingdom, without Russia, without a number of other countries on the European continent? They reject the arguments that the European Union can become a people's Europe and, more importantly, not only can it not be a people's Europe, or a progressive development at the level of the European Union, but, on the contrary, Brexit has also been the legend to speed up the promotion of a series of reactionary changes, which lead to the deepening of the European Union in an even more reactionary direction, either with the voices of the common budgetary policy or with the need to strengthen even more the common defence and security policy and the creation of a Eurocrat. It is no coincidence that in the European Parliament's last resolution on the common defence and security policy one of the issues that the Eurostrate must have is precisely to deal with the internal enemy, the enemy - people, that is, the reactions, the mobilisations of the folk actor as a lever to suppress the radicalisation of wider populaces, turning the European Union into an ever more and more powerful fortress in which they are trying to imprison the peoples of Europe. And from this point of view, we are clearly saying that the way out for the peoples of Europe is precisely the fight against the European Union for the release of countries from the European Union, for the people to take their own fates and build the only way out that is realistic for the peoples of Europe and the Greek people, namely socialism. Because, in essence, a genuine European union will only exist when this union is socialist. Mr President, we are dealing with Brexit from the point of view of defending and minimising the consequences it will have for workers, for Greek workers and students in Great Britain, or for the British who live in our country and not, of course, from the point of view of satisfying the interests and needs of the bourgeoisie. For that very reason, and in the proposals that we have tabled, it is precisely the dominant role, the need to defend rights at work and in the education of the Greeks in Great Britain. And we will monitor, Minister, the commitment you made here in your position to satisfy a number of demands that Greeks who work in building enterprises in Great Britain have on the certification of their work. And of course, we are against these logics which have been expressed here by both the government and other forces - particularly the SYRIZA and the Change Movement - for the need to take advantage of Brexit in the direction of attracting large investment projects and interests here, particularly the need to transform the port of Piraeus into the new "City of the Mediterranean", giving other incentives to attract the shipowners to the port of Piraeus. In fact, a New Democracy MP, one of the last to speak, talked about the big benefactors, the shipowners. Indeed, here we will soon set up statues, because they build their ships in Asia, because they have flew apart from the compositions of their boats by Greek seamen, for the great unemployment that exists, for the "black" labour to increase the tariffs of the ferry, which make communication on the islands very difficult, for the reduction of the timetables. In fact, we also offer new privileges. How much more? Here there are constitutionally guaranteed fifty-six tax exemptions for shipowners. Here New Democracy brought a new law to the tax system that exempts property from taxation, since they are in offshore shipowners. How many other motives and privileges should we give shipowners so that we can attract them? And this is really a challenge for the unemployed, for the retired, for the workers and the liberals who raise huge tax burdens in the name of attracting new investments, just to satisfy the interests of big capital. And, in essence, if something confirms this matching of the perceptions between the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement and other parties is precisely that they agree on all the designs and interests of the American imperialists in the region, they agree on all the planning of the bourgeoisie and the needs of capital for how to satisfy them. It is an agreement which, of course, is also reflected in the common candidacy they have for the new President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and three teachers attending the 3rd High School Sparta. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I now give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today is certainly not a pleasant debate, since the bill attempts to limit the possible effects in our country, particularly in the case of Brexit without an agreement, the 'No deal Brexit'. And it is not a pleasant debate, because in all the last few decades the enlargement of the European Union does not seem to have succeeded in achieving the deepening and European integration that we have all expected and still believe, despite the addition of so many countries to the European family, now express themselves in fear that, with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, we can lead to the mutilation of the European Union. This is because it does not leave an accidental country from the European Union. It is irresponsible for anyone who claims there is nothing wrong with Brexit. The United Kingdom, a great nation, a strong country, leaves the European family one way or another. We are talking about a country that is modern, or - if you like - a glimpse of modern parliamentaryism, a country that is strong in economics, a country that is powerful military, a country in which Greece has been found an ally in the past two major wars. And it was politically and historically justified for this choice of our country. A great country is leaving the European Union. This does not mean that other important countries do not remain behind, but it is important to approach these issues in their true dimension. And I would say, Minister, that an 'no deal Brexit' case is certainly a case which will have a great impact, and the consequences will undoubtedly be proportionate to our country as well. I hope that they will only be proportionate and no more and no more and no more than they are relevant to us. But there is another danger, which we must have in our assessments and in our decision-making table: even an agreed departure from the moment that the United Kingdom fully meets the United Kingdom's demands may cause damage to the European Union in the future, because it will open up once again, but this time it will be permanently the case for Halos. The negotiations are thin. We hope that it will thrive as it should be, and that it will be implemented with the least possible vibrations for the European structure. However, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill has no opportunity to intervene in these truly important and historic developments. What he is trying to do is to minimise the consequences for our country, especially in the event of a long withdrawal, because, if the withdrawal is coordinate, many things will be dealt with at European level, particularly in the context of our trade and general economic relations with the United Kingdom. Therefore, Minister, the reflexes of your Government and your Ministry are operating at this time in order to be ready. We all abstain on a naughty Brexit, but unfortunately we cannot deal with it at this time. You mentioned in detail both you and our rapporteur in the articles of the bill and I do not intend to get more tired of this House. However, I would like to refer to both amendments. The business visa, which is essentially institutionalised in the framework of this draft law with an amendment, comes to deal with many issues of citizens from third countries with which we have - and we must have - economic relations for their participation in conferences and seminars. We avoid this time-consuming process and we are overcoming the weaknesses of participation by representatives from third countries in a trade process in our country that is in the interests of trade and the economy. The amendment by the Ministry of Finance hopes to pacify the signatories' premises, because it actually comes to rationalise the administrative responsibility of the notaries. If no damage is caused to the State, no taxes are lost, this fine of EUR 100 is not imposed. After all, we also expect new objective values, such extensions are given and we think that the system will work more well. It strengthens, in other words, certain critical classes in transfers, such as notaries, so-called legal certainty. You will allow me, Mr President, at the end of my post, to refer to two important events relating to international developments in our wider region. Both General Haftar's visit to Athens, which we welcomed a few hours ago, and here at our National Representation, where he spoke with our Prime Minister, and our Prime Minister's communication with Chancellor Merkel, are two important events that come to show that Greece does not remain inaccurate and a non-owned observer in international developments. It's definitely an unfavourable environment. But that's not the point. The fact is that today's events also represent stations in a sequence of events created by the Hellenic Republic, the Greek Government, Greece, with the signature for the construction of the East Med pipeline, with the Cairo conference, with the Prime Minister's visit to the United States, with the diplomatic marathon of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikolaos Treasury, but also with today's visit by General Hafftar, who is implicitly putting - and if this is not considered an exaggeration - our country in a way to participate in the Berlin Conference, but also the telephone communication with Chancellor Merkel, which clearly stated that it fully respects and is in favour of the decisions of the Council of Europe on the Turkey- Libya memorandum, I think they will add a lot to our country's efforts to peace in the Mediterranean and above all to protect our national interests. I am sure that with the work done by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Ministry this effort will be justified at the end and our country will regain the role it had lost in recent years, I would like to say, because the Berlin Conference is not a new body, it now has five years of life, and our country has not been involved or has not tried, it has not attempted to take part in and shape developments. Today the country is present, is active, protects its sovereign rights in every way, Greece is a strong country and will be even stronger and is not an observer of the developments, as both today's events have shown. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 15 students and students and two teachers from the Kastorian High School of Laconia. The House welcomes you [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There has been a request for a second word from three of the rapporteurs or special speakers. I'll give each one three minutes. Mr. Dermenjopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, in an unstable international and European environment, the government, as we have said, shields our country from the negative consequences that may exist at a possible exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without a withdrawal agreement. The arrangements proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cover a very wide range of activities, as they facilitate the daily life of fifty thousand British citizens who live today in our country and those who visit it in the next period. At the same time, they effectively guarantee the insurance rights and access of these people to our country's healthcare services. At the same time, our Government creates a stable protection environment for British investment and business in a number of strategic areas that we have analysed, such as tourism and the financial sector. The draft law introduces the entrepreneurial invitation - business information - a new visa policy which facilitates the granting of a Schengen visa in the event of invitations to meetings, conferences or events of a commercial and industrial nature. Particularly beneficial to the Greek economy is the regulation on aid with additional staff from the customs authorities of the country. This intervention will help both to limit the phenomenon of smuggling, which is responsible for the loss of enormous revenue for the Greek State and for the provision of better services to citizens and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government, as the news shows, does not passively monitor developments. Instead, with long-term planning and seriousness, without populism and vocalism, it effectively protects our national interests. The draft law we are debating today is a typical example of this policy. With the full coordination provided by the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our country is in a position to deal with any side effects caused by the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union in a timely and effective manner. I am convinced that after the finalisation of Britain's exit from the European Union we will achieve a mutually beneficial strategic relationship with the United Kingdom worthy of the historical ties of the two countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, too. Mrs. Jackie has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you. The surprise visit by General Huffar today to Athens just before he left for the Berlin Conference on Libya, in which Erdogan, in order to agree on the truce, is a precondition for the legalisation of the illegal and provocative turmoil pact, is the delayed and impeccable counter-attack of the Mitsotakis Government in its exclusion from this crucial national interest conference. But that does not change the outcome, Minister, because our country is still excluded from this crucial conference. Obviously, I realise that the government is looking forward to the face of General Huffar to the lever of pressure so that the creation of a national unity government in Tripoli could guarantee the cancellation of this illegal Turkish pact. Mr President, may I point out, however, that the fact that the opposition to Haftar in Libya does not accept the agreement does not mean that the Libyan state is not committed. International agreements bind States, whether they are called Memorandums, whether they are called agreements or called conventions. Should Haftar acquire control over his country, in order to cancel the Turkish - Libyan memorandum, it is necessary, Minister, whether assent from Turkey or recourse to international courts. In any case, we are positive about everything that enables us to identify and communicate Greece's official positions, so in this visit, but in any case it does not substitute the absence - I insist - of the Greek Government from the critical Berlin Summit. As far as the amendments are concerned, I would like to say that we are already in place. They came to the committee on time and we spoke to both the committee and today. We're positive, Mr. President. As far as the amendment to the notary is concerned, its first part actually says that no fines should be imposed on notaries when they are submitting inaccurately inaccurate URBAN documents, when this does not lead to a loss of revenue for the public. The second paragraph also effectively suspends provisions according to which real estate transfers must be made via an electronic platform. We have no objections on the substance. What I would like to note, Mr President, is that a month ago it passed the tax bill where the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance knew or should have known whether or not these provisions could be implemented. To come about a month after this bill, I think it's off the record. But I have told you that we are basically in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much. We close the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers with Mr. Villardos from the Greek Solution. You have the floor for three minutes, Mr. Villard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to point out at the outset that we are of very little importance, from the point of view of participation, in the Brexit issue, while, in our view, it will be one of the most important events of the new decade from which a great deal will be judged, both at European and global level. Many European countries, which are hostile to the German European Union, are on their feet at the door, as one would say. They are waiting, in other words, to see the results and they will decide. Some of these are Hungary, Poland and probably Italy, which is also a member of the Eurozone and will be judged too much. It is a country that has realised that it cannot solve its problems by remaining in the euro zone with the conditions that exist, of course. I would like to remind you here that only Britain and Denmark from non-eurozone countries, but located in the European Union, only these two countries do not have the obligation to adopt the euro. All the others have it on the basis of what they have seen has happened so far in Greece and elsewhere will probably be negative. In the end, I would like to refer to, remind and point out perhaps the issue of compensation for the damage suffered by Greece, our hoteliers, by the 'THOMAS COOK'. The Civil Aviation Agency - I mentioned it several times ago - of Great Britain had issued a certificate for 'THOMAS COOK'. - in April, if I remember correctly - and based on this certificate, our hoteliers signed contracts. If so, we can ask for compensation from the Civil Aviation Service of Great Britain. I think we should sometime learn to claim our rights. I have also told the Minister for the Environment that on the issue of Dieselgate we had said that the United States managed to get 25 billion from the pollutant scandal only from VOLKSWAGEN. So we, and here we are the only country that has not requested compensation, while all others, even Germany itself, have taken it. The same is true of Germany's claim for military corrections. The Germans themselves, many German economists have placed them at around 290 billion and we are the only ones who do not claim them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u239	Thank you. We are closing today's sitting with Minister Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Let me make a reminder, Minister. You're being watched by Laconian students and I'm telling you you're a lacquer of origin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the colleagues who have participated in this process. I would like to say that it is very important that the message emanating from the Greek Parliament is drawn from the almost unanimous support for regulations, as announced by the parties, concerning the exit of Great Britain from the European Union. I do not know exactly what happened in the other countries of the European Union when the relevant bills were discussed. But I would like to note something that I think needs to be recorded. I would like to point out that almost all the political parties have referred to this process as a very sad and unpleasant process for both our country and Europe. There was a reluctance to deepen our relations with Great Britain on the eve of the European Union, restore their historical character and, of course, to be relations which show that the mood for the level of our bilateral relations is to have a very high level and very close political and economic relations with Great Britain. With these thoughts, I would like to once again thank the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the other ministries who have contributed to this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the principle of Articles, and on the amendment to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Regions on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendment and the whole text, and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, thirteen articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you have to "rol" the touch screen, scroll down. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u242	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u243	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u244	Following the completion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Consolidations on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u246	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-17-S1-commons.u247	With the consent of this House at 16.56 minutes, the sitting on Monday, 20 January 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, is closed: a topical and urgent debate.
