ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the legislative work, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Friday, 4 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 996/31-8-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Selective reintegration of workers into the special employment programme for 5,500 unemployed graduates". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis under number 992/31-8-2020 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Except for CIDs and children's stations of over 65,000 children". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 997/31-8-2020 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The free molecular control and the provision of all necessary protective equipment for police officers to deal with COVID -19 must be guaranteed." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the Movement of Change, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Truesome problems in the functioning of the farmer's Efka". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening and exploiting the skills and experience of those who have worked, work or will work in employment programmes". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle of Articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to prevent theft, smuggling of excavations and the illegal importation, export or transfer of property or property of cultural or cultural property and the promotion of their restoration’. B. Other: "Following the Agreement on the Development of Film Co-production between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Administration of Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television of the People's Republic of China." C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Film Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of the State of Israel’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to their ratification can speak. Nevertheless, I propose that there should be a single debate and that, apart from those who object - only those who object to the Rules of Procedure - and those who wish to speak for five minutes, with only one clarification, are given the floor by either the rapporteur or special speaker or the parliamentary representative. That is a matter for you to deal with. The vote on all three conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Does a colleague want to take the floor? Dispute or agree, extend?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u5	I do not know about the rapporteurs, but perhaps the Parliamentary Representatives could be posted for two minutes, because there are also topical issues that touch on today's conventions. Let the Bureau say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u6	I will invite the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Christina Alexopoulou, for five minutes with a tolerance. I would strongly ask that we be on the line of tolerance rather than overreacting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u7	As soon as possible, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Minister, today we are called upon to ratify three international agreements in the field of culture, both for the protection of our cultural past and for the development of our cultural future. I think it is a great honour that the first time I have been appointed rapporteur for our government bill, the subject is related to our sister Cyprus and to three more countries with which we are united by strong historical and cultural ties from ancient times, which are nowadays also economic at various levels with China, Israel and Jordan. They are also links between geopolitical, critical and useful for the challenges that we face today as a people and as a country, especially the relationship with the State of Israel in our immediate neighbourhood. It is a state whose achievements in the fields of the economy, technology and defence are monitoring and recognising. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we still have a great deal to learn in these areas from Israel, and of course from other countries. With regard to the subject of the bill itself and even though, at the committee meeting last Tuesday, there was a detailed discussion and, in fact, there was a consensus between all Parliament's wings on the principle of agreements and articles, you will allow me, without wishing to tire you, to carry out a brief review of their content. The Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Cyprus and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, signed on 16 January 2018, relates to closer cooperation between the three countries on the protection of cultural goods or cultural heritage, in particular in order to prevent theft, illegal excavation, import and export, and to the promotion of their rehabilitation. It is important that Greece, Cyprus and Jordan, countries with long history and cultural heritage, which are affected by the scourge of the illicit trafficking in cultural goods, open up a new page in relations between them and establish an important cooperation in the field of culture. The adoption of this agreement by Greece is part of the overall design for the protection of cultural goods and complements the mesh already created by our country with its leading role in the signing of the UNIDROIT Convention, the UNESCO Convention, and the ratification of six separate Memorandums of Cooperation. The articles of the Agreement clearly set out the terms and conditions of such cooperation between the three countries. I will briefly say that Articles 1 to 5, 7 and 10 lay down the conditions for cooperation in the protection of cultural goods against theft, illegal excavations, illegal import and export, transfer of ownership or property. They shall also lay down the conditions for their repatriation, the possibility to report and study them, as well as their legal export and import to and from the territory of each Contracting Party, in accordance with the national legislation of each of the Contracting States. Articles 6, 8-11 and Article 13 shall state the need to inform the public of the content of the Agreement and to raise awareness of the issues of archaocaust and illegal trade in cultural goods or cultural heritage from areas where there are armed conflicts. It is also stressed that the general public needs to be informed about the interconnection of this illegal trade with the financing of terrorism. There is also provision for exchanging expertise and information on theft, loss of cultural goods and changes in the national law of each State. The same Articles provide for the organisation of joint research programmes, the training of the personnel of the Parties, and refer to the cooperation of the Parties in international organisations responsible for combating the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. Articles 12 and 14 define the negotiations and mutual consent between the Parties as a means of amending the Agreement and how their disputes are resolved. Finally, Article 15 stipulates the validity of the Agreement at five years with the possibility of an extension of 10 years, which may take place in accordance with the provisions of Article 12, i.e. by negotiation and mutual consent. The second agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is to strengthen cooperation between the Hellenic Republic and the People's Republic of China in the field of cinema and audiovisual production in general, with a view to further developing this sector. The Agreement refers to the Cultural Cooperation Agreement between the two countries for the years 2011 and 2013 and was signed on 27-7-2017, at the official start of the year of Greece - China 2017. As most people know, with China there are already close relations in the area of culture and services of the Ministry of Culture, as well as cultural bodies supervised by the Ministry, working with the respective services and bodies of the Chinese state. Ms. Mendonis mentioned at the committee meeting that there have already been the cultural years of Greece - China 2008 and 2017 and 2021 is the year of culture and tourism between the two countries. In particular, the Greek Film Center and the Thessaloniki Festival have already been invited to participate in the Beijing Film Festival despite the krone pandemic. Therefore, the cultural relations of the two states are stable and after the visit of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to China in the autumn of 2019, as well as the Chinese President Si in Greece are especially strengthened through the cooperation of cinema operators. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a little more time. This agreement on cinematographic and audiovisual co-productions will promote the Greek cultural potential in a country and market with great economic and cultural power and will enable Chinese producers to be attracted to our country with benefits for our creative economy that cannot be ignored. The analysis of the articles is as follows: the contents of Article 1 relate to the definition of the subject matter of the contract and to the explanation of different concepts. Articles 2 to 11 and Article 13 lay down in detail the terms and conditions for cinematographic cogeneration between the two countries. These define the issues of the approval of the project by the competent authorities of the two Parties, the process of integrating a film creation into the benefits of cogeneration, as well as the issues relating to production, processing, participants and the production language. It is important to provide for the agreement at this point in order to achieve the overall production, processing, compiling, etc. in the territory, and by citizens or permanent residents of the Contracting Parties, unless the scenario determines otherwise or does not provide adequate technical processing services in those two countries. This is how our Greek cultural potential is protected. The same Articles also specify the conditions for the extent of the financial contribution of each co-producer, the possibility of a producer from a third country, as well as the intellectual property, promotion and distribution issues of the film. The appearance of co-producers as Greek or Chinese in the titles and in any commercial, advertising or any other material of the project and the arrangements for the participation of co-production in international film festivals are also defined. Articles 14-16 deal with issues relating to the possibility of amending the agreement, the resolution of disputes, and its entry into force and its termination. Finally, the Annex sets out the procedural rules, the necessary supporting documents and the content of the contract signed by the parties to include a film into coproduction benefits. The competent authorities of the two countries which approve the inclusion of a film in the co-production scheme are also defined. Third and last deal, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, you will have to finish because you have taken a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u9	I'll be done in two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u10	No, in two minutes, less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u11	There's a deal left, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u12	Very soon, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u13	According to the above-mentioned agreement with China, the film co-production agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of the State of Israel, which was signed in Jerusalem on 8-10-2013. With this agreement, the two countries undertook to establish a contractual framework to encourage the production of audiovisual media and especially cinematographic coproduction. The agreement comes as a result of the expressed desire of the Contracting Parties to specialise and intensify their cooperation in the cultural field and through it to strengthen the links of friendship and cooperation between the two countries. There is the assessment that the film co-productions, especially due to globalisation, international crisis and the existence of large traders in the industry financially strengthen the national film industries and individual producers that have low budgets. These co-productions also contribute to economic development and promotion in the international area and to the international organisation of film, television and audiovisual production and distribution in Greece, Israel and in general abroad. I will not mention what the agreement per article includes and I will conclude by ending that the two film coproduction agreements with Israel and China facilitate the promotion of Greek cultural potential in countries with global economic and cultural backgrounds. They are, in other words, an investment in the future of Greek culture. The third agreement, therefore, to prevent theft, illegal excavation, import and export of cultural goods and cultural heritage, as well as to promote their rehabilitation signed with Cyprus and Jordan, contributes to the protection of the historical past of our culture. All three of us are helping to make use of the entire cultural stock of our country, and that is why we recommend that they be ratified by the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos and the Members of his party tabled today on 3-9-2020 a proposal for a law: 'Proposal for a law against Christianophobia and the insulting and exalting of the Divines 'Completion of the provisions of Law 927/1979, as amended by Law 4285/14'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The reason for SYRIZA's first ratification is because there is Mrs Malama, Mrs Anastasia Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. On the SYRIZA side, we consider that there has been a detailed debate and that all the arguments have been put forward during the committee's debate in three conventions that we have stated from the outset that we are positive. We could not do otherwise, thinking that the conventions have been signed and discussed by the previous government and are being ratified today. Obviously we could not be negative in conventions, agreements and cooperation with other states that contribute to a multi-dimensional foreign policy, protect our rich cultural and cultural heritage or create incentives and frameworks in order to have new productions of cultural products. So, by contributing to speeding up the process, we again state that we are positive about ratifying the three conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u16	And I thank you for the time economy. I would like to give the floor now to Mrs Sunday Malama in order to place her on the second and third conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u17	We have placed ourselves in committee, Mr President. We agree with all three conventions. It would be a good thing, however, if the Minister took into account the proposal we made in relation to Palestinian film production. That would be a good set of cooperation, because it has proved to be very good for the peoples too, that is, for us too, to reconcile these two peoples. We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. And give the floor to the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are today discussing the ratification of the three international conventions, which, as I have pointed out in committee, are, at first instance, being ratified with a huge delay. In particular, I would remind you that the Convention with Jordan comes after two and a half years of delay, the Convention with China with three years of delay and the Israel Convention with seven years of delay. The conclusions of yours. However, it must be stressed here that these delays, ladies and gentlemen, actually weaken the very value of contracts, and this is because of the change in the conditions that have taken place. Issues with the scope of the contracts shall be raised. As regards the Convention with Cyprus and Jordan, this agreement sets out the framework for cooperation between the three countries in the protection of our cultural and cultural goods against theft and trafficking. It is a continuation - I would say - of other corresponding international agreements with our country. Indeed, Minister, this agreement will ensure that cultural goods are imported into the territory of a Member State of the Convention in order to determine whether it has been exported legally. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be stressed here that in the event that the contracting State claims that its good has been unlawfully removed from it, a request for repatriation is made, of course, by proving the origin of the cultural good and its unlawful movement within the time of the contract. There is a serious question here, of course, because this convention is being ratified after two and a half years. So to date Greece has not been able to exploit what it should have done. This Convention also provides for technical details of the procedure for the submission of a request for repatriation and, of course, related costs, as well as for the cooperation and exchange of experiences and know-how between the States Parties. As far as the Convention with China, like the Convention with Israel, is concerned, it aims to promote film coproductions. However, ladies and gentlemen, the 2013 environment, the 2020 environment in particular - I would say - on the film market and the audiovisual co-productions to which the contracts refer. We live in the era of the dominance of NETFLIX and Streaming from our place of choice. I do not claim, of course, that we are living at the end of films or films, but there is no doubt that there has been a great change. In this context, I would say that the House should consider, because when there is a bilateral or tripartite agreement concluded in 2013 or 2017, it is voting in 2020. In particular, the Convention with China sets out the terms and conditions for the creation of co-productions between the two countries. I shall refer to Article 12, which states that the competent authorities must act in accordance with the rules of procedure set out in the Annex and Article 13 where it is laid down that the majority producer has the first option for sending a film co-production to film festivals. Finally, for the Convention with Israel, the agreement concerns the cooperation programme in the fields of education, sport, science, culture and youth between Greece and Israel. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, we also voted in favour of the audiovisual media framework. The aim, of course, is for the film industries to contribute to economic development through international co-organizations. This Convention, dear Minister, sets out the terms and conditions for the creation of co-productions between the two States. It regulates issues of the movement and marketing of producers within and outside the territory of the two countries, that is to say, the distinctive features that co-productions will have. It also enables Contracting Parties to establish a Joint Committee to monitor the implementation of the Agreement. For the members of the committee, therefore, it is only foreseen that they will be agreed by diplomatic means without detailed criteria being laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing, you will allow me to make a reference: 3 September 1984, today 3 September 2020. It is a birthday day for all of us who are within the "closed police" called PASOK. Forty-six years, therefore, since the founding of PASOK, the party founded by the great political leader Andreas Papandreou, the party that had received the destiny to change the image of the country and the life of natural citizens, the three-fold Greek independence, popular sovereignty, social liberation as ever. Today, we, the Movement of Change, PASOK, proceed responsibly so that our presence is patriotic, fruitful and constructive for Greece and the citizens. To conclude, I feel the need to say that at every turn, at every turn on this route, our progressive, social and democratic reforms have always been as a competitor to those which have unfortunately been absent in recent years, despite the fact that our country and citizens need them as much as ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too. Mr Manolis Syntakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. In the debate in the committee we had a positive attitude to all these three agreements. In fact, when we had a debate in Parliament on a similar agreement with Peru on blocking the theft of ancient excavations, etc., we also voted positively. We do believe that such bilateral agreements can help reduce the illicit trafficking of immovable monuments or movables of cultural heritage or works of art, but not eliminate it. And let me ask the question: can such agreements in themselves eliminate existing crimes against cultural heritage? We say that no, not because we would not want it, but because the causes are in the commercialisation of all spheres of social activity - we said it beforehand, we are saying it today - which turns any value of use into good value for profit. I think there is a recent and old history, which has shown that antiquities are products of theft, such as the sculptures of the Parthenon, but also looting in war zones as a result of imperialist interventions and wars. So, on the basis of these points, and without delusion on the overall solution of this problem, we will vote positively for the agreement between our country, Cyprus and Jordan on preventing theft of illegal excavations and illegal import, export, etc. In relation to the agreements between Greece - Israel and Greece - China, we will also be positive. These are two agreements concerning the audiovisual sector for coproductions, mainly in cinemas, aimed at the economic development of the film industry in both parties. Of course, these two agreements focus exclusively on this, namely the economic importance of the film industry and the audiovisual industry in general. It is an impression, of course, that in these two conventions, cultural - to say so - it is a lacking dimension. There is only one phrase in these two conventions that makes a reference to culture. From this point of view, we would like to say that the social value of culture, its value of use for society as a whole, is totally incompatible with its economic exploitation, as culture, as I said before, has no commodity and exchange value. In our view, true, great art is not a doll, nor a enslavement instrument, but a release weapon, and in our view it should be discussed every time. As every form of work seeks to humanize, transform reality, according to human needs, not to strengthen the resilience of a reality in complete contrast to human needs. Of course, the greatest moments in her history, the most important achievements of cultural heritage were created when art came to capture the pioneering messages of her time, pushing humanity towards light, as Richos said, "from here to the sun", as the great poet said. With these points, and I repeat without deceiving the final solution to these issues, we will agree, that is to say, that we will find ourselves in a positive position for all these three conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Synthraki. To give the floor to the first Symbol, between Greece, Cyprus and Jordan, to the special buyer of the Greek Solution, Mrs Sophia - Iido Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current ratification between the three countries, the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is of particular importance. The strong ties and common cultural values between the Greek and Cypriot people are known to us all. Strengthening and upgrading our country's relations with Jordan and at levels other than cultural, currently under discussion, should be an important priority for Greece. The reasons are obvious and we in the Greek Solution stress it. The forging of strong alliances following serious initiatives with countries in the wider Mediterranean region and not only are crucial to the creation of an anti-Turkish axis against the continuing aggressive and expansionist views of the neighbour. Because when you take ever-ending threats, attacks, challenges you don't sit with your hands crossed. This is beyond what has been said and a country that is a favourite destination for Jordanian students who choose Greek universities for their studies. The currently ratified agreement, which, as is almost always the case, comes with a significant delay, is related to the protection of cultural property and the prevention of illegal activity around it. The protection of cultural works is essential, first of all, for reasons of moral importance. We must not forget, moreover, that we are talking about goods which prove the peculiarity of the people who created them and which are the crown of the nation's historic path. We therefore have a moral obligation to protect them, to preserve them and to deliver them to the next generations. In order to achieve this, however, it takes two pounds. These goods, which are a national reserve for their country of origin, must be protected by both the competent state services and the citizens of the countries. That is why it is essential to certify and inform them of the costs that the unreported excavation or the theft of a valuable cultural asset may have. Contact with cultural heritage is the backdrop and a powerful means of recuperating history itself to create a powerful state. The need to protect and highlight the great creations of the historical heritage for us in the Greek Solution is of paramount importance. We have been in detail for each of the articles here at the meeting of the committee. One point, however, which is very general and vague and we would like further clarification on this, relates to Article 5 of the agreement, which refers to costs in the event of a request for repatriation. At the same time, the country which is seeking to repatriate a cultural asset belonging to it is pointed out to be taking over all these vague costs in order to return to its country of origin. This will obviously also apply if this good has been illegally imported into the other part. It's a point of attention. Very important and the implementation of actions in the context of citizens' awareness of the cultural past, in addition to simply informing them. The cultural heritage sector faces a number of challenges. Effective cooperation and the exchange of critical details on cultural objects is essential for the cultural continuity of the States-Parties. The area of cultural heritage is unacceptable to be underestimated, because the largest capital of our country is its culture. We in the Greek Solution have a sense of responsibility for what we have received from our ancestors and their protection must lie at the highest level of the priorities of a country, such as our Greece, which is the cradle of culture, to create a powerful state against the totalitarianism of globalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. And I would call on Mr Constantine Buba from the Greek Solution to place him on the second and third sentences, namely the People's Republic of China and Israel. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also recommended to the committees. We consider it positive when a cultural marriage takes place. It is good for the relations between the two states. It is an opportunity to open a door to Israel, with which we have a common course towards two nations that have been tortured, but have affected, we would say, the world, despite the small extent they occupy. Relations with Israel, not to hide, were misunderstood until the 1970s. There was the syndrome of anti-Semitism, there was the Palestinian that we had fears, and that is why we did not recognize Israel for years and after the war of independence in 1948 and the war of the six days of 1967. The picture, however, has changed slowly, and that is positive, because there are many Israelites who have a long way to go in Greece. After all, the community of Thessaloniki at the beginning of the last century was half the city's population, 50 thousand were the Jews during the Holocaust and two thousand were left. They've helped. There are forms that relate to culture. What I mentioned to the committee, which makes me truly an impression, is that the Israelites are the Sefaradi and the Misrahi, who love Greek music. They love Greek music and it's an opportunity to infiltrate, because cinema is married to music, it's another branch of music, which invests in seventh art, cinema and we can exploit this culturally and politically by extension and commercially. There is radio in Israel today that only broadcasts Greek music 24/7, the title is "Radio Yasoo". I was surprised. There are forms, I said next time, Charles Kun the father of the theatre who revived the ancient Greek theatre has origin from Israel. There is the Frozis who fought over Albania during the Greek-Italian war. There is Askinaz, there is Pulisher a singer of Israelite from Thessaloniki. Aris San was a Greek who went to Israel and managed to spread the bouzouki to the Israelites through culture and all the songs of Stelios Kazantzides to sing them. Today it would be very good even for the Athens state orchestra to take an initiative for the government to send it to Israel and indeed to have better ties, because we must not, of course, depend on some key points from other states. There is the EastMed pipeline, there is the Exclusive Economic Zone of Israel that crosses the EEZ of Cyprus and, by extension, Greece that we have not delimited from Strongyli, Ros and Kastelorizo to Israel. It's a lot of pieces we need to see. The production of cinema, unfortunately, is nowadays commercialized, and I have said so to the committee. We must therefore go to quality films, but we must give the advantage of highlighting talents. We have some reservations that we have said in writing, and we see that as positive. The reservations are with regard to the first name, second name, residents, and from which areas will be involved in the film productions, but above all we should not go to a Hollywood skin moviemaker, who unfortunately is about commercialisation, tickets and showcases. The cinema, ladies and gentlemen - and you understand it - can pass messages of friendship, love, relations between states, social issues of unemployment, poverty and see the image of life and positive and negative. It's a chance. As far as China is concerned, it connects us a great deal. Besides, in Shanghai there is the Center of the Modern Greek Language, in Beijing also University for Greece. And the word "Greece" for the Chinese comes from the sun, I give the correct terminology is from the word "Si-La" and they regarded us as "Iones" from the time of Alexander the Great. So, positively, we see what is happening with China. And finally, let Europe decide: She is with China, she is with America, who is she with? Because China has penetrated into Europe, but there is this ambiguous situation of the old age if it will ultimately invest in culture and trade and finance and establish relations with China. Of course, for the Chinese our trade relations have been upgraded and because of Piraeus, because of 'COSCO', there is a ship called 'COSCO HELLAS', in any case it is a long story. So it is a good thing. Finally, to say that today is a historic day, he may have mentioned the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement - and well - the founder, Andreas Papandreou, but today is the day of the first constitution. Don't forget. In this area, at the time of Otto's palace outside was the people and was shouting like today, September 3, 1843, with Callergis, Metaxas, Makrigiannis, all of them for the first constitution that then Otto ruled with absolute monarchy of mercy God and managed to establish the first Constitution of 1843 and years later came a Constitution, which gave hectares to the world that was united with its first residence. It is a historic day, September 3, 1843, hence the name "Square of Constitution" called by Callergis: "Have the Constitution". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u26	And we're finishing up with the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I will be extremely brief. MERA25 as the arm of the Pan-European Movement for the liberation of Europe's peoples by its few-governers is self-evidently you would say in favour of all forms of internationalisation from wherever it comes, it serves our final purpose for a globally united society that cooperates instead of fighting, that is to say, our purpose of moving from prehistoric to the history of humanity, which will ultimately happen, simply needs a speeding up in our view. So we are obviously in favour of all three conventions, we support them. I would just like to say two things, and I told the committee a few days ago. The first is that with regard to co-productions with China and Israel they are welcome, but we have to look at the possibility of our own production, namely the inability to say, because in the last ten, twelve years, I have the chance to say, and the honour of having taken part in the shooting of sixteen long films and other short films, that these are done as one of the incumbents would say, does a director have two friends, a production director and a follower, collecting some of his actress's friends and saying: 'Children, shall we do something for the good of culture or for the soul of our mother?' If this woman has been lost and they do so, that is to say, without any productive way of organizing it, and this is about poverty, the poverty that culture has had in our country for ten, twelve years, it has nothing to do with the coronary and the evil that is temporary and will pass, it has nothing to do with political and economic choices. That's the one. And the second one is, which we have already said to committee, that the Agreement with Jordan and Cyprus on our archaeological treasures, on their protection, on their return to the side of every time one of them has been stolen and located in another country, yet one would necessarily remind us of the fact that the Parthenon Marbles remain in the British Museum, where there is no place at all, and so it also reminds us that the Greek Governments should never be suppressing the flag of this race, we should continue every day, every time, every time, to remind the world community that there is a theft of world importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. And now to give the floor to the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before the committee, the initiative to adopt the current arrangements is part of the overall plan to support, highlight, promote all forms of cultural action and creation with a view to exploiting the whole cultural stock of the country and encouraging the production of all kinds of culture. With regard to the Convention on the Settlement of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Cyprus and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, the purpose of the Agreement is to promote closer cooperation between the Contracting States in the protection of cultural goods, namely to prevent theft of the illegal excavation of the import and export of cultural goods. The provisions of the Convention were analysed in detail by the rapporteur at the committee meeting. I would just like to point out once again, you have all said that Greece, Cyprus, Jordan are three countries with a long history, rich cultural heritage and all three have very big and serious problems with the scourge of the illicit trafficking in cultural goods. This draft law opens up a new page in the relationship between the States Parties and the close links that already exist and introduces important cooperation in the field of culture. The adoption of the present arrangements forms part of the overall design of the Ministry of Culture for the protection of cultural goods, in particular to prevent theft of illegal excavation and illegal exports of cultural goods. I think that the vote on the agreement can only have a positive role. Obviously, it is not just the institutional texts, but they can facilitate the efforts to repatriate the monuments that have been illegally exported from the countries to whose cultural heritage they belong. As regards both contracts with China and Israel, the agreement with China was signed in July 2017 and its purpose is to promote closer cooperation between the Contracting countries in order to strengthen film relations and audiovisual production in general, with a view to further developing this sector. At the same time, the projection of the Greek cultural potential in a country with great dynamics now on the global surface is greatly facilitated. The fact is that there is already cooperation with China between cultural actors, among the official bodies, the guarded by the Ministry of Culture and many others. It is a cooperation that goes very well. The same applies to the sector and to the level of the services of the Ministry of Culture. They already have close cooperation with the respective government structures of China. Particularly in the area of the cooperation of cinematographers and the Greek Film Center and the Thessaloniki Festival have been invited, despite the difficulties of the pandemic, in accordance with the process of the Beijing Film Festival, to participate, to participate and have participated in this festival. The vote on the agreement is expected to facilitate networking between the audiovisual sector workers, but also attracting Chinese producers to our country, with all that that implies to the creative economy. At the same time, it is assumed that the promotion of Greek culture will be facilitated in China, which attaches particular importance to the cultural stock of Greece, as well as to modern creation. Considers that Greece is its privileged interlocutor in the West on cultural issues, due to the ancientity of Greek culture. What is usually called - and you know - is that China is the oldest civilization in the East and the Greek in the West. Similarly, I would say, is also the case with regard to the Israel Convention. At this point I would like to refer to the time-limit set by Mrs Malama, the rapporteur for Civilian Responsibility, during the work of the committee. In particular, the preamble to the Convention states that the Contracting Parties shall sign the Agreement by reference to their programme of cooperation in the fields of education, science, culture, youth and sport for the years 2013 to 2016. This means that the specific contract was signed to specialise in the cooperation programme between the Parties, which provided for joint actions in the years 2013-2016, which in no case constitutes the time of the contract. In addition, Article 15 of the Convention expressly provides that the validity of the latter shall start from the date of publication of its ratification in the CVT and shall apply for five years from that date, with the possibility of an extension for another five years. With the signing of the Agreement, the Contracting Parties expressly expressed their wish to specialise and intensify their cooperation in the cultural field and thus contribute to strengthening the links of friendship and cooperation between the two countries. The Contracting Parties have undertaken to establish a contractual framework to encourage the production of all audiovisual media, in particular cinematographic coproduction. The adoption of the two agreements is a presumption that it will strengthen the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and its supervising bodies with the responsible bodies of other States, in order to strengthen and support culture and, in particular, modern creation. To conclude, I would like to remind you that we cannot intervene and alter the texts of the conventions. We can by means of a private communication, which must be exchanged by the States, corrected or supplemented, but in itself the texts of the conventions cannot be intervened. I have the point made by the rapporteur for the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs on the addition of Palestine. We can see it in a process with the State Department. We cannot add it to the text of the convention which we are now called upon to vote on. The ratification therefore relates to the text of the agreements as it has been made at the time of their bilateral signature. We are staying exactly in the same texts that were signed by the previous government when they were signed. After that - so that I do not take more time - it is very important that the agreements are voted, as I understand it, unanimously by Parliament. It is important to strengthen, in this way, the diffusion of Greek culture and to help create a new basis for artistic creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u30	We thank the Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has called for the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, because of the day, to begin with a report on 3 September, which is of course a historic day for Greece, on the one hand for 3 September, which opened the way to the Constitution of the country, but of course also for the modern 3 September in which Andreas Papandreou presented the founding declaration of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement. It was a declaration by Andreas Papandreou, who expressed three generations, the unjust expectations of the generation of national resistance, the generation of democratic struggles, the undeniable and the 1-4, but also the anti-digit struggle. It was a declaration which incorporated the principles and values of democratic socialism and which, after the victory of PASOK in the 1981 elections, guided the course of important, modern and progressive works in Greece. Greece of Metapolistism, which is a conquest, which is the best period in Greek history, is of course the result of the struggles of all the Greek people and the work of the governments. But we must say - and this is recognised in general - that the contribution of PASOK to this post-political progress was decisive in order to get Greece away from the millstones of the underdevelopment of the previous period. This, of course, did not only have a positive sign. There have also been negative periods and negative points in post-population, because we have not been able to exploit the great successes we have had and the integration into the European Union, the Eurozone, the hard core of Europe, but the pathogens have remained. The necessary reforms have not been carried out, not on many occasions. One thing is undeniable, however, that Greece has changed, entered before Europe, and today we can discuss on equal terms with the powerful people of Europe and, of course, with all the states in the world who want to work with us. For example, are the conventions we are discussing in order to promote culture, art and to protect cultural heritage. Of course, the new risk, which came with the pandemic, has brought about a serious and important project, especially the time-consuming value of the National Health System and, more generally, human-focused policy. I think that today all the political forces, regardless of their views before the pandemic and whatever they will think about in the process, have recognised the value of the National Health System, to which we have devoted today's anniversary. The event that will take place in the evening will be exactly that. It is a matter for each Greek, each Greek, every Greek and every citizen of the country. In this sense, I think that government, parties, scientific bodies, we can all best contribute to making use of the resources that we now have from the Recovery Fund, and not only, to lead to a new human-centre progress based on the needs of the country and society. But it would be inconsistent not to say that it was on the one hand the overthrow of the consolidation of the post-American relations, which had made the non-preferential Greeks hostage to the margins of social and economic life and politics. The liberation of these creative forces was another force of progress, it was an important achievement. At the same time, I must stress that the fight for citizens' rights was guaranteed in Greece during the post-population process and also with specific decisions, legislation and initiatives the wounds of the past, which had to do with splitting into society on issues relating to the civil and post-war state, have been closed. One of the first acts of the '81 government was national reconciliation. Of course, there have been other initiatives from other governments. However, the characteristic of that legislative initiative was that it included all the citizens and the people of this place. Since we are discussing cultural heritage, monuments which, in one way or another, have been evacuated from our homeland, I conclude by saying that the specific agreements that we are currently dominating for the promotion of art and cooperation with countries concerning cinema and other issues include the repatriation of monuments, the repatriation of fundamentally of our cultural heritage, which, in most cases, are smuggled more often and in no way legitimately, has left our country. I want to dedicate our present position, and because of the day, to Melina Mercury's fight for the Parthenon's sculptures. The conditions laid down in the discussions in the past have essentially been fulfilled by the creation of the Acropolis Museum. We want, insist on and ask the government to take the initiative again so that the request for the definitive return of the Parthenon sculptures to the place that has been created and, of course, so that they can be exposed, placed and re-established after so many hundred years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. We can conclude the sitting on the three sanctions here. In order not to be unfair, if one of the other parliamentary representatives wishes to speak, he will be glad to ask for it. Since he is not asked for, a single debate on the principle is being declared, the articles and all the instruments of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and their vote will be taken separately. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law "Structuring the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to prevent theft, smuggling of excavations and illegal import, export or transfer of ownership or ownership of cultural goods or cultural property and to promote their restoration". I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article and the whole bill. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u34	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u35	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to prevent the theft, smuggling of excavations and illegal importation, export or transfer of ownership or ownership of cultural goods or cultural property and the promotion of their restoration’ has been accepted unanimously on the principle, articles and total and as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u36	We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Following the Agreement on the Development of Film Symphony between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press Division, Publications, Radio, Film and Television of the People's Republic of China". The vote shall include the principle of the draft law, the first article, the nominee article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check it again or to revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u37	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u38	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, which will appear on the screens in the Chambers, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u39	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Agreement on the Development of the Cinema Symphony between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Administration of Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television of the People's Republic of China" has been accepted by unanimity on the principle, articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u40	We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Film Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Israel" and their vote will be taken separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article, and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u41	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u42	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u43	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Principle of the Film Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of the State of Israel’ has been unanimously accepted uniformly in principle, Articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u45	The House has given the mandate requested. We are going to interrupt a quarter in order for the Chamber to be aerated and restored, and at 11.40 I would ask both the rapporteurs, special speakers and the Minister to take their place in order to initiate the procedure for the next draft law. So please 11.40 ́ to be all present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the tourism sector". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say in the Rules of Procedure, those who object to the ratification of this agreement. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u47	The House has agreed. I would like to say, for the information of my fellow Members, that the New Democracy, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution and the Mera25 and the JRC voted in the committee. Despite the fact of Rule 108 for more information, the Bureau, as it always does, can speak for five minutes, and those of the rapporteurs or specialist speakers who want to speak. And of course he has asked - and he will take the floor when he is asked - the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. So we start the process with the special speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Christos Katsotis, who also has the floor. Mr President, whenever you want to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Government officials, Minister, workers and self-employed professionals in tourism - foodism are in a bad position. The responsibility lies with the government and business groups. They pay the consequences of the government's class management of the pandemic on the basis of the needs of the employers. We want to once again put the urgent need for measures to protect workers in tourism - foodism, as well as the self-employed professionals who have been destroyed or on the verge of disaster. Finally stop swinging big business groups with warm money and ensure the income of workers and self-employed, the decent living of their families. That is why we demand that the employer and the state cover the income of the unemployed, the hotel workers and foodstuffs, be abolished, and that all the provisions of the legislative acts should be abolished. To provide unemployment benefit for all unemployed without conditions and conditions. Suspension of payments in current, water, telephone, banks, taxi. Reduction of rent and exemption from municipal taxes, food and fees. Also banning the auctions and seizures of public households. To cancel the thousands of redundancies that have been made so far and to be banned for the next period. Do not apply rotating work. No negative change in contracts of employment. To comply with all sectoral collective agreements at hotels and at food shops. For self-employed professionals: Take special care for those who declare an annual income of less than EUR 12 000 in order to reinstate the professionals of the sector and in general self-employed at a tax-free limit of EUR 12 000 at the same time as abolishing the ENPI and the trade fee, starting with the income of 2019, so that the planned suspensions have an elementary impact. To be exempted from individual insurance contributions for the months that the suspension measures have been imposed, without altering their pension rights. To waive the payment of municipal fees for months in force of exceptional measures. Ensure cheaper tariffs and ban holidays for electricity, water for the next few months. Prohibit auctions, seizures, any measure of forced collection for public debt and banks for all, in principle, until the end of the year. Delete part of the already accumulated tax debts and banks, in principle interest, fines, but also part of the capital. Ensure access to the programme of repayable advance without multi-fashioned procedures, VAT and other obligations, adding to it also the self-employed. To grant unemployment benefit to all those who fail to open their micro-enterprises or who have closed them without conditions leading to the exclusion of the majority of them. Stop playing in the roulette of people's health profits with health protocols adapted or applied - a chick word which has been said late - as presented to satisfy the needs of large tour operators, tourist groups, airlines and shipowners. Now, immediate measures to protect health and safety at work. To become a free test for COVID -19 for all employees. We support the struggles and call on mass participation not to pay again the crisis, to ensure the decent living of their families, to stand against the government's anti-grassroots policy that meets the needs of capital for lasting anti-corruption measures and to simulate them that ensure cheap labour power. For all this, the JRC with its members, its members, with other fighters daily give the battle for the organization of workers' games, the self-employed professionals. Gentlemen, in the committee's position, the majority rapporteur for the Agreement between Greece and Serbia on cooperation in the field of tourism began with "here is a great love", demonstrating the time-consuming relations between the two countries based on common heritage, religion and culture. He also noted the agreement that had been made since 1959 between the Kingdom of Greece and the army of Titus and the specific communist regime, as he said, where they sat on a table to set up the Greek-Yugoslavic Committee for the development of tourism since then. We want at this point to stress that the agreement was not then made to support the people of Yugoslavia. The 1959 agreement was made to support and strengthen Tito who stood against the Soviet Union and build socialism. In addition, there were many such agreements with the capitalist countries to strengthen their action towards the Soviet Union against socialism. These lycophilis of the capitalist countries, the imperialist organisations, the European Union and NATO, to promote their plans and their pursuits reached the dissolution of Yugoslavia with the participation of our country's bourgeois order. The people of Yugoslavia lived through these so-called friendly relations of the urban classes by bombing, fire and death. Unlike the granting of any facility to slaughter the people of Yugoslavia, the majority of our people have expressed their solidarity, as it is expressed today, and its opposition to the choices made by the European Union and NATO and the governments of the member countries involved in the crime. The relationship between friendship and mutual benefit of peoples has nothing to do with the pursuit of urban classes in their business agreements. The JRC in every draft law, each transnational agreement is placed precisely from the point of view of workers and people's groups. The European Union, NATO, the US seeks to increase geostrategic sovereignty and reduce the influence of Russia and China on the region. It promotes such agreements, as well as others, so that in all areas - as well as in the economy - the Imperialist organisations, the monopolistic groups, in cooperation with the urban ranks of the countries as well as Serbia, can spread their tentacles. The explanatory statement argues that this agreement is a result of the shared desire of the two countries to strengthen friendly relations between peoples through the promotion of cooperation between national tourism authorities and others. The holidays and recreation from the right of the people of Yugoslavia, who lived in the period of the planned economy, with any different choices, the observations and arguments that one can have, with the rehabilitation of capitalist relations, has become an extremely expensive commodity purchased by the few and deprived of it, as in our country. This is the result of the system of market freedom and individual ownership in means of production, recreational infrastructure and holidays. Serbia on this path of freedom of movement for workers and products seeks to strengthen the urban order, strengthen the profitability of business groups that are also active in tourism. Greece's urban order also seeks with the agreement to extend its profitable investment and to help promote its allies' strategy in the region, Serbia's accession to the European Union and NATO. The peoples of the countries will suffer the consequences of the pursuits of the urban classes in the region, their alliances and competitions for their positions. The consequences are already great. The civil governments in the context of the competition of its Member States' institutions in the context of the reduction of Russia's influence also promote these agreements which are currently being voted on here. The C.C.E. It is against this agreement, therefore, because it does not serve the people of the countries, the relationships between friendship and mutual benefit, the right to vacation and recreation, but the business groups whose needs and interests are affected by the governments of capital and conflict with the interests of workers and the people. He is fighting for the genuinely mutual, beneficial agreements between peoples, which will help to satisfy the people's needs, as well as tourism, recreation, people's rights and not the profits of capital. On this road we fight and give all our powers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. The President of Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, asked for the floor. And then, as I said, those of the special speakers and rapporteurs want, can take the floor. I'll see them starting from the series of parties. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting with my speech, to refer a little to the conventions, quickly. We're talking about Serbia. The Serbs are a people who are hurt, a people who are proud. That's a reality. It's a homonymous people. We as Greek Solution have a view of the Orthodox countries. We believe that at some point we should also create our own Orthodox arch in the common interests of the peoples, that is to say, strong alliances. So what comes here is welcome. Of course, we must not forget that with the Serbs we fought together in the Balkan Wars. We were in the same room and in the same camp, against the Ottoman Empire. It is timely that this sanction you bring here, the agreement, in that we have a similar procedure now with Erdogan and his neo-ethnicism. In our view, therefore, Greece must create an aggressive foreign policy that creates what is called 'orthodox arc' not in the sense of the war machine - I would say, in the long run, to do so - but above all in cultural, cultural and economic matters, an orthodox arc that will overcome the Muslim arc that Turkey has achieved for decades in the Balkans. For those who do not know, Albania is in Turkey's sphere of influence now, Bosnia-Herzegovina itself, Muslim minorities in southern Bulgaria the same. Where there are Muslims, they are in Turkey's sphere of influence. So the counterweight - because it must be the country's hit equivalent - is the Orthodox arrows, where we can make a single one. Of course, Minister, we need to talk about serious issues at some point. What are these? We're talking about an orthodox bow. Religious tourism. You're here and you're here. It's a chance we've got you here. We could raise billions of euros from religious tourism - I have said it a thousand times - and especially in Mount Athos, especially when the Russians have huge sums. You know very well about the Panteleimon Monastery. To me, it's an honor to know Mount Athos well. I've visited it forty-four or forty-five times. But you know very well that the Russians can give capital and come to Halkidiki, to come to Mount Athos. But he wants infrastructure. Mr. Theochari, as Minister, see the infamous port in Uranoupolis how it is. Decades that port in Uranoupolis cannot be decent for pilgrims to go to Mount Athos. And we're talking about pilgrims who have money. Give an example. Last year I was at the Batopedi Monastery, Russia's third banker for pilgrimage to the Batopedi Monastery, Mr. Theochari. And when we're talking about a banker, Russian, we're not talking about the crusaders of ours, Mr. Theochari, we're talking about billions of euros. I mean, in other words, we must at some point seriously see religious tourism, what it can give us. And I made a request to the Minister, Mr. Chardalia. I say it publicly. There is a big problem with the Chilean Monastery. It's a Serbian monastery. Serbs are the people who cannot take workers because they cannot accept Albanians - unfortunately or happily, the other monasteries take Albanian workers - for their well-known problems with Kosovo. You must do something to make these workers easier, because the monastery burned down two years ago and they want to rebuild it and they don't have workers. And if the winter comes, it'll tear it down together. I'm telling the Minister, Mr. Chardalias saw it with a lot of sympathy and very positive attitude, if you like. I hope that it will be implemented, to show that we are already accepting them, that we are close to them, to all these Orthodox peoples. Let me also tell you that all the patriarchs of Serbia are philanthropic and symptomatic, all the patriarchs studied in Greece, Thessaloniki. And the previous and the previous one, still the leader of the Hillari Monastery, Methodios has studied Thessaloniki. They're philhellenes. So it's all right. I could do a lot more. Pilgrimage routes, religious tourism. Money is that I can't say we don't need it anyway. We need them very much, too. Let's go to the rest. You know, we have to decide sometime. You brought a deal with China about the movies. I was listening to PASOK's representative if I'm not mistaken. Man said it well in the era of "NETFLIX" etc. Leave the movies with China, Minister. No investment to get from the Chinese. What am I supposed to do to you now? Are we going to go to the movies? Okay, good civilization, which was my friend here since Mera25, but he needs money, investment. Here with the "HUAWEI" 5G fear. As far as I can see, you're kicking because America is kicking, and Germany agrees to do that. So we finally decide who we are. We have a multipolar world, Minister, in which China, Russia and the United States conflict. And now Germany is acting weirdly, it's playing a game. You know in your government well. You and Germany are doing well anyway. So many countries are emerging. Let's decide who we are. The Germans are brilliant. They go with Russia too, they go with the United States. We're going to blocks, that's the accident. But there are other things, and that is important in our view. It is imperative that we copy Israel on all its issues, starting from its primary sector, which produces EUR 115 billion of agricultural products from handful land. Israel thirty years ago had no land to cultivate. Now it also has soil to cultivate water from desalination and it has 115 billion euros of exported products when Greece has 15, the entire turnover of Greece. I mean, let's copy his model. Let us copy the model of law and order. Israel is a sibling nation, just like us. Israel's position with Greece is as problematic as it is. Around it, it's got enemies. Let us make better relations and agreements with Israel of a defence nature, but real agreements, not foot agreements. And I've said it since 2007, 2008, 2009 here and some people have been blaming me, mostly from the Left, because they have a conception of Palestinian people. 'The Palestinian people', I said. They made a statement in favour of Turkey. Don't forget. The Palestinians we supported for decades! Because there are no friendships, there are, unfortunately, interests that conflict and overlap. Let us decide where we are, in the national interest, to win the country. We can get know-how from Israel. Even in the primary sector, Minister, Greece still has no seed bank. I'm shouting, I'm screaming all the time. They're making hybrid seeds and making exports. We also have a front in Europe's Islamism. Israel has a stable, very important law against illegal immigration. Let's copy him, let's get him to Greece. It's not bad. You tell me about a movie with Israel. What am I supposed to do with the movies? And since we are talking about Islam, we have tabled a proposal for a law, Mr Minister, Mr Theohra. You know, here most of you are occupied by a phobia syndrome against what is Islamic and you have made a law called "Islamophobia", international terminology. Good. We are therefore tabling a law on Christianophobia. It's a proposal for a law, we'll put it in the Minutes. Why? There is a specific racism against the Greeks. I will give examples to understand what I mean. There is racism against the Greeks. The Greeks are subject to constant persecution mainly for Orthodoxy, mainly for his religion. You can curse God, God, Christ, and not be punished. If you say anything about the Quran or Allah, there's the Islamophobia law and there's good for some. For us, I would say that there is no reason to have a law that does not concern all citizens, because this law also had to be about Christianophobia. Each Velopoulos cannot curse the aunt and not be punished. We therefore ask for addition to the anti-racist law, which the Greek Solution will abolish and improve when it governs, Christianophobia. Proposal for a law. Let me see the friends of the New Democracy - and the good citizens of the country listen to us - whether this law will accept it, be equal and be equal. And because I want to be fair, I would now like to tell you one or two examples of what I said before. We should go to the coroner now. On Monday we have a debate here on the level of party leaders. Listen, I'll read to you now what Mr. Chiodras said every month. Tsiodra March: "Children are easily coronary." April Chiodra: "Children do not get easily coronary". May Chiodra: "Children cure the coronary". Tsiodras June: "Your neighborhood children are teasing me and I put on all masks." What can I tell you now? These things aren't serious. Let's agree on something. Does the mask protect 100%? Oh, no. Because it's not whether it protects or not, it's the use of the mask, like the gun. The gun and gun protect against your enemy. If you misuse the gun, it doesn't protect you. How am I supposed to have 12-year-old kids wearing masks? So let's go to the World Health Organisation, because I want to talk to data, not fairy tales. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes what the World Health Organisation says about masks for young children. Here it is. And let me tell you the opposite of your ministers and your responsible men. So Article on the World Health Organisation's official page. Open up now and read it. What's he saying? They say no to masks in children under five to six years old. Obviously. For children from six to eleven years of age - you have children, I imagine, here - among other things, says the World Health Organisation "is considering the impact of the use of the mask on learning and psychosocial development". In other words, children using the mask under twelve years of age have an impact on learning and psychosocial development. World Health Organization, an article that exists now. And you decide on the children of twelve years and below to put masks on them when they have problems with learning and psychosocial development. You're going to make it lazy. The WHO itself says so, which you yourself invoke. Greece is therefore the only exception. What does the World Health Organisation say to us? By looking internationally for the masks, I saw that Greece has the strictest measures to impose masks from all European countries. Tell us a country in Europe where the mask is mandatory as in Greece. There is no European country anywhere. In Germany, I know well, it's not the measures that are so repressive. It's called the World Health Organization. What do you want? To make Greece an animal? We did it with the memos. We'll do it with the masks. We'll make her a laboratory animal. A life of Greek experimental animals. Why? So here I have a company known to sell masks, two companies. Do you know what the sticker says on it? "This product does not offer individual protection to the user by COVID -19 or other infections. It is likely to offer partial protection to individuals.’ You themselves impose a mask that they themselves, based on their ISO, say they do not protect. Who are we kidding? And you come in last night and I learn, to finish the matter, that after you have ruled out all companies competing for the masks, you give the master of "ATE", a company, a competition directly - is a fictitious contest and I will explain why - at a price of 0,78 per mask. The 6 million that New Democracy gave, if you divide it into the money it asks and the masks it takes, is 0.78 per mask, when there are on the market 0.40 per mask. Tens of other candidates came out of the competition, so there are two - three of them. You'll see, look. She's a scandal. Six million tell me. Why? Is that a little bit? He's a scandal. We'll find it in front of us. Price of mask 0.78 mass market? I have a company. A product costs a euro. If someone gets ten thousand products, I'll give it to him 0.90, 0.80, 0.70. It's the law of supply and demand. Who are you laughing at? That's a scandal. The company ‘ITAE’. Do you know who he is? I'll say it. I think it's Mr. Jubavlis. What is it, Jubavlis? ‘Rafale’. I am in favour of Rafale, but I am against the masks. So competitions don't make a serious government. On foot three o'clock at night like thieves. Let's go, since we're talking about our kids. The other one? What came to her by Mrs. Keerleading? We solved the problems of our education and after Andreas Papandreou took the aprons out, it's time we undone our children in schools! And I'm saying raw now, because we know what Cheerleading means. Are we all right? Solve problems with our children and education, with the rooms, to be fifteen people in each class, so that they don't be at risk from the coronary you're afraid of. I'm scared, too, but I'm not that scared. Cheerleading in Greek schools? Where are the Greek dances? Where's the Greek education? Where's the Greek language? Shall we make the kids cheerleaders? Come on, everybody enters the lifestyle, the TVs, those weird games. Let's make them all cheerleaders. Aren't we a little embarrassed? I know what to say. Or you're out of place and time. So the budget of the masks yesterday is five million masks, a budget of EUR 6.2 million. Divide to see how much a mask does. It's a disgrace. For 6.2m euros, five million masks. I don't know. There are other questions. Is it true that they received companies' files and gave three hours later a protocol, yes or no? First question. It's true that for two days they opened the bids in a locked room, yes or no? Is it true that tenders were rejected for formal reasons, that they didn't like why they were from the rival camp? Why were such short dates set? Which company will deliver in seven days about five million masks? It's the company he knew, the company he had in the warehouse ready to deliver. Who are you kidding? That's not governance. And I'm closing with Turkey, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Turkey made this call, gave permission to the Russian fleet - now listen - to exercise in a Cypriot EEZ via Turkey. That is to say, Turkey and Russia accept the illegal EEZ and do joint exercises illegally in the Cypriot EEZ - Natalia - and Russia asks Turkey to get permission. Question: Will the government go to NATO to ask that Turkey be prosecuted by NATO, yes or no? Will New Democracy denounce Turkey to NATO for this attitude that is a replacement of NATO and violates NATO unity, yes or no? Will he dare? Because this is where some people tell us what they're doing, he says, foreign policy seriously. Um, do you not make a serious policy when Piat comes out Sunday and tells the newspaper ‘REAL - NEWS’ that Greece and the United States are impoverished, says, in Russian expansion and descent, and there is not even a protest from the Greek Government? Pyatt, who walks in here like he's at home and meets Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Mitsotakis? He meets them all in here. And it comes out and declares that Greece and the United States are the embezzlement to Russia's descent. What right? Who legalizes him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u51	Didn't he meet you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u52	Never. The ambassador never saw Velopoulos, Mr. Comrade, for one single reason. You're protesting me, Mrs. Pipili, there's no reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u53	I'm not complaining! I'm talking to another colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u54	He's a friend. He's my friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u55	Is it forbidden to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u56	No, I say don't worry too much. Calm down. So, I say - to make it clear - that since Piat says so, should the government not invite him to take a step? Is Piat speaking on behalf of Greece? Is the Ambassador speaking on behalf of Greek foreign policy in the United States? That bothered me. And it bothers me. And because I used to say about these strange things that are happening, listen to my opinion about the Greek media. I don't care if you fed them with 20,000,000 or if you even feed them now. I'm interested in their monopoly, though. I see the same faces parade into the channels all the time. I never see Mera25. I've seen one from the JRC at all times. One in a while if they remember, if it rains, if it snows, they might call you. Well, we and the planet go backwards, they'll never call us. I see the same faces all the time. But I see the same obsession. It is the phobia of the coroner and, of course, the great Turkish state. There is a Greek channel, which all day shows a story about Turkey, how good Turkey was in the past and how strong it is now. These are unauthorized things in a country! The worst part, not that they cover facts. He's the good colleague from Heraklion, if I'm not mistaken. In Tymbaki, in Crete a hundred Pakistanis chased a Greek. They beat him to death. They really made him black. There was no report, no report, nothing. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Colleague, when your Chief speaks, he speaks twice and three times more than his time and we do not protest underneath. I would like to say this to close down here, so that you can understand it: there has not been a single report. They beat him to hell with the Greek. He didn't say anything. If they turned the other way around, though, if a hundred phasophiles, Nazis were chasing a foreigner, we would have had live connections for a month. As we had with the Vitrioli case, with the two 35-year-olds. All the channels for ten days were showing us the girls, how a lunatic went and shot the other viper. Second theme: Attica Albanian fifty-five years old went to stab the nurse. No one said he was Albanian. Third theme today: the Albanian shark asks - it says - four hundred grand more than normal because it was a loan shark. They don't mention his nationality anywhere. Why don't they talk about nationality? You tell me. It is also a good thing that we have to get ethnicity out of the way, not to say anything if it is Greek or Albanian. To tell who each of them is. This attempt to hide the truth is so that the Greek does not have a reflex to understand what is going on around him. That's what bothers me. But a party, whose Prime Minister, in his statement, is in power, is in power. He wants to jam Greek society. He said so himself here. He wants to bottle her with what comes and what's leaving. It's not easy - I repeat - societies that have different customs and traditions, unlike traditions. I can't get bored with claustrophes. I can't get bored with having my wife in the corner shattered, having no reason and point. I can't get bored by getting seven women married. If the New Democracy wants to get bored, it's her right. But we do not want them and we do not want them. I am closing here - so that some colleagues are not concerned - not least how much you are here in the New Democracy, but also in the Change Movement and in SYRIZA. I think you're an internal troika now. Does it seem from Greek-Turkish, in favour of the receiver, to prove this, because 'Air has taken the flag' in the past, 'The sea border has no' in the past, 'The Aegean belongs to its fish' in the past, 'Not to be lonely' here, 'Kotjam Turkey does not have an EEZ?' from here, "Oruts Race" if he did research, I don't care at all" from here, Mrs Bakoyannis. Listen, friends and friends. You seem to be in a tactic: drag us into a dialogue. The view of the Greek Solution is that dialogue on acquired and national sovereignty is never possible. On the other hand, if we had a serious government, a government that knew what national sovereignty was, would not give any reduced influence, nor would it say 'a little pregnant' or'medium coffee' or 'hard and not'. If you really are government that comes from Constantine Karamanlis of the popular patriotic right, as many of you think you want to be, now that he does what Turkey does, the entire Turkish fleet has to sink because it violates our national sovereignty. You don't, but don't drag the country into dialogue. If you can't, quit. It's not bad to go to elections. It's not bad at all, because it's also a demonstration of graciousness, that "I can't, I can't deal with the situation and go to elections." I understand that. But walking around and saying to Mrs Bakoyannis that, "I don't care if she does research "Orutch Race", she is far from reality. I'm saying this because I want everybody to be serious. Of course, the Council of Political Heads will never be. It won't happen! The three of you, the 'domestic troika'. You agree on everything. Be well, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u57	Mr Bukokouros, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, has the floor for a short intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a small speech, Mr President, on the occasion of what the President of the Greek Solution said. I would like to give some clarification on the question of the supply of masks. It has been heard that there are three companies that will supply the Greek State or that there are two, three left.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u59	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u60	I would refer you to the Minutes, Mr President. The project was first assigned to the Central Association of Municipalities and Communities. Secondly, thirteen Greek companies - no one was effectively excluded - have taken over the commission. The CEDEFOP has published the relevant table. Of course, some companies are larger and have greater possibilities to supply masks. Some are smaller and provide a smaller number of masks. However, no Greek company was excluded. That's what I want it to be clean. For the Greek-Turkish, addressing all the wings, I would really say that at the time our country is faced with the unscrupulous neo-ethman challenges and the incredible aggression the inner front should be sloppy. This, of course, does not mean that opinions should not be heard. They'll be listening. In Parliament we shall be discussing it. But it is an important factor in the internal front. Also, Mr President, a very important factor is the diplomatic wall which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has successfully built throughout the Mediterranean. See today, what is the position of all the Mediterranean states, how they state their views internationally on this Greek-Turkish crisis. Of course, in the context of today's debate, the President rightly said that we are welcome to sign this agreement with the friendly country of Serbia. And the confession, of course, plays a role. As also, the historical relationships of modern and recent history play a role. However, with concern, we are following Turkey's new version of NAVTEX for exercises on Russian ships in the Mediterranean with real fire during September. We are anxious to see whether these exercises will be a Turkish partnership or they will be just exercises of the Russian navy. So all this should be approached with coolness and attention. And of course, we should see who our friends are and who they're helping right now. It has been transparent to some extent so far. I believe that it will also be transparent in the near future. There is no certainty in international diplomacy, as in politics. Each friend and allied country, homogeneous or not, builds alliances in difficult times and seems to be really friendly country. Greece is a state of democratic, organised and strong. If the new Sultan believes it has to do with broken Libyan or other neighbouring countries, he is probably wrong. The Greek armed forces, which we all trust in in this Chamber, have recently shown that the country has deterrent power, which is constantly growing and able to defend maritime and land borders. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is what we want the Greek people and all the Parliament's wings to be. I think that we can also agree on this too with the irreversible internal front to strengthen this deterrent power of the country, while building at the same time through the agreements that we are discussing today - and this one with Serbia and the previous hour with Cyprus, Jordan, Israel and China - the idea that Greece is proving that it can build alliances, not only in the difficult, but over time, because it is a civilised, democratic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, we must not deviate from today's subject. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. I guess my good colleague - he's liked me - didn't understand what I said. It's not his fault. Maybe I didn't do well. I raised four questions in particular. Let me read what I said in the Minutes. I asked four plus one questions: 'Is it true that they received companies' files and gave three hours later the Protocol?' Questions have been raised. Is it true that for two days they opened the deals locked in a locked room? Is it true that tenders have been rejected for formal reasons? I said: why did you set deadlines so soon? Which company will deliver in seven days five million masks? Those were my questions. As for who decides, you said the CCT. Who controls the CED? What about me? The New Democracy! Don't make fun of the world. What a Yannis, what a Yannakis! Let's go to the rest. I said he won a company by this gentleman, and the masks are accurate. On the other hand, you're telling me about a hard forehead. To have a sluggish forehead, Mr. Colleague, you have to make a Council of Political Chiefs, and not just catch each other separately and say what you want. Let's get things cleared up. When you want an agitated front, you'll have an agitated co-operation and an update. In closing, I'll say: do you want a sloppy front and have the Doko of your right hand? At least the Greek Solution has its objections, to say something else. And, of course, because you probably didn't hear again, I repeat that the first one he proposed to the Greek Prime Minister France to get 'Rafale' was me. Ask him if you're talking to him. I, when we met him, said: 'Look at the Rafale' from Croatia that go for free'. Secondly and most importantly, I said from here to you, in New Democracy: Complaint Russia and denounce Turkey to NATO to throw it out. Will you report her? Will you do it? That's what I want to hear. I'm not with anyone. I'm with Greece. You have a problem, and you think we're with Russia. Oh, no! With Greece we are, and I also said in my speech and again: the New Democracy must denounce Turkey now in NATO and be released from NATO, because it is doing joint exercises and gives rights for the Russians to do in violation of NATO's basic principles. I said it, and I spoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u64	We will continue and give the floor to the other rapporteurs and special speakers, starting with Mrs Pipili from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, the fact that, while I speak from the Chamber of Parliament and still wear the mask means above all that I have common sense, secondly that I hear almost all the scientists and not some beliefs of sprayed or dissenting scientists and, most importantly, because even the little child can understand that a microbe, a virus, is very easily transmitted by a simple daily movement that is just saying 'Good morning' with the mouth. I also wear the mask because I have learned and realised that I have to protect myself above all, but to protect the people around me, whether they are in groups, whether they are workers or they are generally citizens. We must say this because very often Members are accused of or generally arrested by the Greek Parliament that it does not set a good example. Well, instead of trying to tell us that we're not serious, I think the majority shows that we're really giving the good example. I now come to the subject of the ratification which I have expressed, and the whole New Democracy Parliamentary Group, in a very positive way, with reference to the extremely close relations between Serbia and Greece over time, but also to the development side that the ratification of the agreement between Greece and Serbia on tourism issues will bring about. However, during the debate in the committee, particular emphasis was placed on the fact that, for example, our relationship with Serbia was destroyed because the flows were closed, but they did not highlight the reason why the rest of Greece had occupied it, that they closed the borders to friends with Serbian citizens because Serbia was under a regime of violent pandemic invasion. So how it is political argument that is heard through the House that Greece has protected its country and its borders because perhaps poorly some hoteliers in Halkidiki or in other regions have suffered this violence. Because we live worldwide in a situation of violence, horror and logic so that it does not continue in the future. It sounded, for me, the most paranoid example. They searched for the Minister of Tourism and the services of tourism colleagues from the Opposition saying that, for example, in the Dodecanese and especially in Rhodes, hoteliers died because it is known that Scandinavians are the best customers in the Dodecanese over time and were particularly mentioned in Sweden. At that time I said: Jesus, is it allowed by the Step of the House, by Parliament's plenary, to say such criminal inaccuracies? Sweden is the European bad example of a state and a government that completely ignored the common guidelines for the prevention of measures, it left the Swedish people according to their own sensitivities to respect other citizens. Sweden has about six thousand dead. Sweden reaped the elderly, as did France, for example, in the nursing homes because it left them. And we have the courage from the Step of the House to ask Mr. Theocharis for the change, because we did not allow the Swedes to bring the bad example to Rhodes, Kos, Nissouros and elsewhere. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Notopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming today to ratify an agreement on cooperation between Greece and Serbia, which, as we discussed in committee, is the result of the efforts of the government of Alexis Tsipras, of SYRIZA with Minister for Tourism, Helena Koutura. Obviously, we agree with the ratification of this agreement. After all, we took the road at a time when it was completely different for Greek tourism. Unfortunately, today this agreement also comes with a relative and concise delay at a time when you have already made sure that relations between the two countries are not mined with your relics, contradictions and mistakes. You have already managed to make a mess of every scope of your policy. But let's take them one by one. The responsibilities are heavy, they are fair, they belong to the Government of New Democracy. The mess in tourism, but the danger to public health, has nothing to do with anyone's individual responsibility. Stop reproducing and rematching it. You rule. Incoherent policy. On the one hand, with the background of the Santorini sunset, the Prime Minister of the country invites tourists to come to a safe country, Greece, and on the other hand to accumulate and stack tourists from Serbia, travellers, our neighbours, on the border of Promahona, to change the instructions every three and a little with new FEK. On the one hand, send them from the Evzones to Promahona without having told them again at night to change the FEK and send them homes to unpack and ban entry into the country in July. Have the epidemiological data changed overnight? Who dares to claim this and indeed from Parliament? So as a result of your attitude, we have numerous reactions to the Serbian press, official announcements from our neighbouring country and of course the reaction of Greek businessmen. Featuredly, the Pieria hotel owners in their announcement - I don't know you're getting them, and if you've given them the slightest meaning - they say it's a great defamation especially for Northern Greece. The country has lost credibility, not only to Greek professionals and tourist workers, but also to all the tourist markets. So today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have another deposit, an opportunity left to you by the SYRIZA government. But, instead of recognizing this, you come here and from this Step, Minister, two days ago in the committee responsible and reproduce things by creating false news, but also false impressions. So by making an unfortunate comparison between the influxes from Serbia of 1914 to 19, you claimed that SYRIZA's policy had no effect. But you forgot to mention, for the record, that Serbia in '14 entered the International Monetary Fund with one of the greatest deficits in the European Union. Its deficit in 2014 was 9.4% and came out of the International Monetary Fund in '18 that we made special efforts, the result of which is the ratification of this agreement, to recover lost time. Mr. Theocharis, you are now policy-making with the results of the SYRIZA and the former Minister, Helena Kountoura, from the Athens-Shanghai airline to the opening of the tour schools, arrivals and revenues. At last, stop the distortions. Of course, this was not the only distortion you tried in your previous speech. You have refused and distorted a number of your statements, for example, about completeness. Of course, no one can forget any more of your statements about the fact that coronary and migration do not affect and will not affect Greek tourism already from February or other subsequent statements of yours, such as that tourism will return to normality. Obviously, the Prime Minister's communists had not informed you that even the Prime Minister was talking about new regularity. In any case, you said one truth the other day. You said: “It’s not tourism the problem. It's our relaxation. The fact that we believed that we won the battle is." And maybe it's the first time that a government official recognizes that responsibility for the mess, for the danger to public health is burdening your government alone. You admitted to being dangerous to public health. But let us move on to your perceptiveness, obsessions and ideas and to how they cleaned up and put tombstones in Greek tourism. You were drunk at that time by your so-called success, and when all the other countries, all the other governments in the other European countries fought against the coronary, you were looking for laurels and prototypes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. Thank you. The easy part was to close the world at home. The difficult thing was to relaunch the economy, reboot tourism safely for the citizens. And this is where you messed up. And because you have recently all the members of your Government tended to degrade the role of incoming cases and to overthrow individual responsibility, success is yours, but failure belongs to the citizens, you forget to say that from the cases you announce the day, you say that only twenty are incoming. You forget to report that you're only doing one out of eight. Features and on the basis of your government's information, on August 25, the incoming tourists - travellers, the incoming people were two million nine hundred thirty - one thousand sixty - fourteen, but the checks were three hundred sixty - two hundred - six. You therefore record as domestic many of the secondary cases of people who came from abroad and say 'it's not tourism'. And we fully agree, Minister. It is your fault, because at the first moment we said that we should take the reasoned risk of opening the borders, restarting tourism, restarting the economy, but without undermining the health potential, the safety of the country and public health. It is not a dilemma of 'tourism or health', such as the false dilemma you say from the Step of the House. If you have put a mandatory negative seventy-two hours ago, today things would be completely different. Today we would not have finished in the early days of the season until the end of the day, today we would not have these dirty articles that are circulating not only in our country, but also abroad, today we would not be on the blacklist of a series of other countries, today they would not put into quarantine the travellers who come to our country. From Zakynthos they left students who posted social media posts for not complying with the rules. Where are the checks? Where's the security that you promised the citizens? What did you do the months you booked us at home? You hired the National Health System? Did you get reagents? Did you get a test? At the same time as the Prime Minister welcomes the many tests carried out in our country, at the same time the National Center for Hurricane states that it cannot carry out a test, because it has no competence in reagents. So you like fake dilemmas. In any case, however, you have not made sure that you also take responsibility for defending our country's interests at European Union level. You should have taken the lead in implementing a single health protocol. That's not what you did either. Were you subjected to pressure from tourist agencies? You've subjugated! Did you undergo shipowner pressure? You've subjugated! Were you subjected to airline pressure? You've subjugated! Do you put padlocks on business? You're on! You drive people to impoverishment through unemployment? You're driving them! You have been baptized as a shield of work by the 'COMPANY WORK' programme when it results in a reduction in earnings, flexible forms of work and the abolition of labour rights. If you were right now to visit an island, not in a planned and organised fashion like the ones you and the Prime Minister went to, and to talk to the people with whom Alexis Tsipras spoke all summer, with tourist operators on every island of the Ionian Sea and the Aegean and from Thrace to Elias, you would see that people are in despair, that people put a padlock on their shops. And they put a padlock on because you chose to support others, not real and healthy entrepreneurship. Mr. Petsas reports revenues of EUR 5 billion. But the market, the numbers, the numbers, the actual revenues are disproved. The New Democracy Department of Tourism disguises you every day and speaks of 3 billion dollars. Not to mention your yesterday - and not only yesterday - triumph in a helmet when from the Step of the House you denounced an alliance of Notopoulou - SETE, then rushed to correct it in your social media and an interview. Mr. Theochari, you're confused. SETE is a social partner. The SYRIZA, either as a government or as a military opposition, fully respects the social partners and their contribution to policy making, whether we agree with it or disagree. This is a characteristic of our policy, and obviously - and I quote this in general - our alliances have no resemblance to your alliances. We rely on sincere agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u68	Please, please, Mrs. Notopoulou, and don't be general. You've turned it into a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. You said we'd talk about it and give us fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u70	You know, it lures all the other speakers, because the Minister will also have to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u71	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u72	So let us return to the agenda. You've already exceeded ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u73	You said we'd talk about this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u74	A little tolerance, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u75	So I am staying on the agenda. All the design, from health protocols to opening and closing borders, was a good time along with Serbia, it was a repetition. So Mr Mosialos, who is a representative of the Greek Government in the international forums for the pandemic, comes along and says that we need a national strategy to tackle the pandemic immediately. It says that we need a strategy that will not be a set of reflex movements or a policy change without scientific documentation, which you are presenting as a great success. And because, Minister, we have in front of us the drafting of the budget for the year 2021 and the closure of 2020, I call upon you to put forward and answer us: What do you intend to do with the Recovery Fund and on the basis of the Pissaridis Committee and its findings? After your meeting at the Ministry of Tourism, is it true, do you confirm the information that this money will be passed by the banks and that they will be subject to bank criteria again, so that practically you will leave the small and medium-sized tourism behind?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u76	Mrs. Notopoulou, please close, because from the beginning you are off the agenda. Please warmly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, the next item is the ratification of an agreement on the relocation of tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u78	I have said since the beginning of the meeting, at which you were not, that there will be a tolerance, despite the fact that we are discussing it under Article 108. Please warmly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u79	But let us discuss it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u80	There's no question you didn't put it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u81	Is the problem of tourism, Mr President, what we need to leave outside? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u82	But please hang up now. We're already in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u83	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, you have asked this Step to judge you from the result. If that is the case, then you are due to resignation, Minister. However, since you have no sign of ethics or of real interest in tourism, even now work for Greek tourism, work to achieve this agreement, recover the lost confidence, recover the ground that our country has lost in our neighbours, support tourism entrepreneurs, to have businesses, to have Greek tourism and to be able from time to time to talk about whether or not to have a recovery, to have an elementary survival.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Georgios Francisdis now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with Serbia that we are discussing today in plenary was signed in Thessaloniki on 13 July 2017. Its aim is to increase tourist flows in the two countries, strengthen their economy and cultivate friendship links that have existed for many years, that is, traditionally connecting Greece and Serbia. With this agreement it is important that tourist investments and business partnerships of Greek and Serbian entrepreneurs are promoted and mutually facilitated, while economic cooperation is favoured. The aim is also to promote thematic tourism, i.e. cultural, religious, thermal and many other types, and as I said in committee, it is an agreement that promotes and strengthens Greek tourism and that is why the Change Movement is positive in its ratification. For Serbia, as for other neighbouring Balkan countries, Greece is a leading travel destination. It is understood that the closure of the border, due to the negative epidemiological development in Serbia, has deeply affected the economy of mainly northern Greece, but also other Greek destinations such as Istanbul. This is generally a disastrous tourist season for Greek tourism, which seems to be a premature end. The unpleasant trend that has recently occurred in the development of the pandemic, together with its economic consequences and negative data on the main markets in Greek tourism, do not allow optimism. Low levels of hotels, cancellations of bookings, poor revenues make up a sad landscape in tourism. Tourist enterprises that have closed or are operating, companies that have taken the risk of reopening and proving that they have undertaken an operational cost disproportionate to their revenues, thousands of workers, and especially to tourism and food production, form a disproportionate reality. The state, although not responsible for the pandemic, has responsibility for how it manages the situation. It follows an unresolved policy with inadequate measures and experimentation many times. He shows discomfort and conscientiousness. Minister, the Change Movement in the context of the productive and responsible opposition all this time makes targeted interventions, but also integrated proposals for workers, businesses and the tourist product. I would remind you of the plan to exit tourism from the crisis, the internal tourism programme, the 'Orthod Society, Live Economy', the proposal to subsidise labour and much more. Our last intervention is the proposals we tabled yesterday to make better use of the Recovery Fund and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. We urge you to adopt them. Minister, the government's management of the situation in tourism is unfortunately wrong and old. The opening of land borders was accompanied by a symposium in Promahona, after the rest of the border stations remained closed instead of strengthening them sanitaryly and opening up to the facilitator of travellers. The Euzoons border station in Kilkis, Greece's largest gateway to Europe opened for one day in the morning and closed the afternoon of the same day, obviously because there was not proper preparation, which demonstrates the urgency of your actions. At the same time, the Greeks came out through this border station in the state of northern Macedonia without any control, forming a source of health risks. Borders opened without adequate controls. While initially, we have been a model health insurance country, we have now come to put Greek travellers on quarantine for fourteen days, as Scotland did today, namely yesterday. Minister, in your speech in committee you said that I used trolls in relation to your words and your statements. I have to tell you, I never get used to this. I'm coming back and I'm telling you to see accurately what you said and are recorded in the video of the show "AND1", "Good with" on July 30th. Furthermore, on August 6, on the 'News Room' show by SCAI, you said: 'This is not a question of congratulating for two, three hours, as long as we comply with the rules. Of course one of the rules to which you are referring is the observance of distances, which is not undone by the use of the mask, which is a lot here today for the mask. Not to mention the subject of what kind of mask everyone uses, and whether it is approved and safe. In other words, the world is confusing with the double messages of the government. Stop transferring responsibility to the citizens. They are the same ones who complied with the lockdown and followed the expert and state instructions. It was the government that culminated in relaxation. You cannot charge for the success of the first phase of the pandemic and for the failure of the second phase. The next period will be difficult, not only economically but also health. Be careful not to lose the public health bet. The Coronovirus has created a number of issues in public health, the economy, tourism, education, workers. We need to look at all these issues in depth. The criticality of the situation requires dialogue and cooperation between the political forces. Let me close by saying that for our retirement, for Greece and for the entire Greek people today it is a special day. It's the day of establishment forty-six years ago of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement. The declaration of 3 September marked a new era for Greece. It guaranteed democracy, signalled socio-economic development, blunted social inequalities, gave Greeks vision and hope, gave man value. In today's difficult period with national independence, economic prosperity and the right to work, its principles and values are more timely than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u86	The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, the President of the Hellenic Republic referred to Mr Tsiodra's contradictory statements, the WTO directives on children and the safeguarding of five million masks in a single company, compared with 6 million euros, a very expensive price, a possible scandal. He also demanded the complaint from Turkey's New Democracy to NATO. The rest that you have said is absolutely irrelevant. I guess your party was just annoyed. On the subject now, we will start from the fact that we have had a great impression of the vote on the agreement only from the JRC. If we do not make a mistake on the grounds of the bombing of the former Yugoslavia by the imperialist forces and its division, as well as the failure to serve the interests of the two peoples, the Serbs and the Greeks. Does he mean, after these crimes happened, that we should give the country another blow? Shouldn't we support her? On the other hand, the interests of both peoples are obviously served, even to some extent. So we really didn't understand the point at all, citing it completely well. As regards the Minister's comments to the committee now, on our criticism of the collapse of tourist revenue and the incomplete measures for pandemic, we will remain in his introduction, in which one should judge from the result. Obviously, we fully agree. Although it seems already the result of a complete failure - only a recession in the second quarter has just been recorded in -15.2% and we note that the second quarter for Greece is not the most important, the third is the most important - we will patiently wait for the year to be completed, hoping that it is right that we are also wrong since what we must care about is the good of Greece. We said in committee that there was a mismanagement of tourism in general. Amongst other things, the uncontrolled opening of borders by countries with many incidents, as well as full of planes and ships, despite the dangers. The Minister said, of course, that different directives had been given, that is correct. However, it is not just a question of giving instructions, but above all of monitoring their compliance, which is certainly not the case. We stressed that we did not have at least a corresponding benefit in terms of tourist revenues, having moved a relatively large number of tourists, with low average expenditure, and thus expecting annual receipts of less than EUR 3.5 billion - from EUR 18.2 billion in 2019 - to a really nightmare in the autumn for Greece. In particular, in the first half of the year, we had a drop in foreign arrivals by 76.9% and a drop in collections by 87.5%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, substantiating the word collapse we have used. Furthermore, we said that one of the big mistakes of the government, which continues to account for our economy, does not realize that the recipe "seeing and doing" does not help in planning any sector, was the low support of internal tourism with 30m euros at the beginning for two hundred and fifty thousand Greeks and 100m euros later for seven hundred thousand Greeks we do not even know if they were made. We do not know because, in general terms, comparing the government's announcements of measures, with what was actually given on the market, we have found several important differences, while a larger programme, such as Poland, could have kept our tourist units open. Even better, we stressed that it could have increased the sales of Greek products if, of course, the appropriate incentives were given and non-working allowances had been avoided, with loans - we stress the loan - of the SURE programme which we will be asked to return to the multiplier. Loans on loans to a bankrupt country do not lead anywhere, but only to maintaining it as a debt colony with impoverished citizens. We continued with the fact that, unfortunately, failure is also about health, where we doubt the figures given to the public, with the impression that the government has tried to convince us that the rise in cases is not due to tourism, but is domestic in order to incriminate the Greeks while it has been credited for the success of the first few months. It is clear, after all, how it uses the pandemic in beam, including to cover its failures in the economy, where all indicators are red, having started its downward course already in the fourth quarter of 2019, before COVID -19. As far as the measures that are always being taken are concerned, it is not the solution that Greece needs, because as we have pointed out dozens of times, we need a change in our economic model so that we produce healthy wealth. Countries with great dependence on tourism and with such a strong pre-cyclical model as Greece where direct and indirect tourist revenues produce almost 20% of our GDP, as we will also deposit in the Minutes, are doomed, while in addition to changing our economic model, it is necessary to revise the tourist model, away from the massive form of low-cost, as well as from its dependence on companies such as the German 'TUI'. We recalled that focusing on tourism was imposed by the policy of the memoranda that wanted to transform us into Europe's wardrobes, so that the rate of tourism in terms of our GDP is significantly increased compared with 2010, as was also the case in Portugal. Having mentioned the tourism of the two countries in the committee, we will not repeat them, but stressing that, for reasons of historical, cultural, economic, religious and geopolitical relations with Serbia, our relations with Serbia must be warm. Also, that through tourism it is easier to achieve this, creating further wider business synergies. We have therefore proposed that more money be spent on the agreement so that the new forms of tourism, such as pilgrimage, winter, healing, etc., can be developed. In most of the articles we did not have any comments, except for Article 11 where there is provision for the resolution of disputes through diplomatic channels and not courts. We have here expressed our reservations with regard to this article. The same provision exists in many other conventions that have been ratified, and we have stated our opposition because we would prefer the possibility of appealing to the courts. In conclusion, we stressed that this is a general agreement, without defined commitments and clauses, as well as very low costs of promoting its actions. It will therefore not lead to significant developments, while it is up to both parties to show interest in promoting tourism, as well as in their business and economic relations, which are traditionally quite good, due to their historical and cultural links. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you. And we complete the parties' placements, with the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Georgios Logiadis. Here you go, Mr. Loyadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a PART25, we voted in favour of the ratification of cooperation in tourism between Serbia and Greece. Some brief proposals, we believe that we have very great potential for further developing bilateral relations between Greece and Serbia. Our aim here in Greece should be to expand tourism, as we said last time, three hundred sixty-five days tourism for all of Greece. We should also support and develop the primary sector and link it to tourism, the Greek unique products we have. As MERA25, we are calling for support with what is needed and for as long as necessary for all those involved in tourism directly and indirectly, due to the recent crisis and also, we have stressed that we need to prepare for a different future, in all areas of society, the economy and tourism, due to the impact of the coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u90	And we thank Mr. Loyadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u92	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u93	Because Mr. Viliardos from the Greek Solution said he doesn't understand why we don't vote for the agreement, I'm not to blame for it, let him sit down and read better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u94	Good. We will conclude today's process with the position of the Minister and we will proceed to the vote. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u95	Indeed, a little more reading is needed, such as Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that there are no references to sanctions but to those who oppose them and that is why we had the rapporteur's proposal from the Communist Party of Greece which opposes them. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the process can be done in a much better climate than the Dedicated Opposition is trying to create. I will say a few words, of course, in relation to the agreement. I will remind everyone who needs reminding me that I am happy to bring an agreement from the former government. I am pleased that this demonstrates the seriousness of the Greek state and the seriousness with which the New Democracy Government is dealing with this kind of issue. We want where and where it is right to continue actions, which come from previous governments. This agreement must therefore be voted on because it strengthens cooperation in order to reach the tourist flows between the two countries, encourages the participation of the EOT in tourist fairs and other promotional events held in Serbia and the Serbian Tourism Organisation respectively in our country, encourages the organisation of travel to tourist agencies and promotes bilateral cooperation in the field of special forms of tourism within them - and I am sure it will be transferred to Mr Velopoulos - and to religious pilgrimage tourism of course. We are looking at the possibilities for cooperation in tourism education, and the Minister responsible for education is here, who will implement actions towards this area. It encourages and facilitates investment in the tourism sector on both sides and Greeks in Serbia and Serbs in our country, and of course we also have the possibility of exchanging data and information statistics so that we can better monitor the tourist movement and that is very important. I will say a few words about some more general questions, because they are being put and passed - I say again - a sense of pointless controversy we should put things in place a little bit. Our government, myself personally from my philosophy as a human, I do not like things. We never said this year would be good, easy or the same as the previous year. We did not talk about a return to yesterday, nor about a return to last night's normality, but about a new regularity, to new rules, and we said so from the outset and to those who decide to visit us, of course also to Greek citizens, whether they are related to tourism or in general. We must therefore answer a number of questions for everyone to be clearly placed in this Chamber, but also in the public debate in general. Should Greek tourism or not be opened? Should we or should we not try to lay those rules so that Greek tourism can be opened? Today ELSTAT's data was announced. Shock, they say, 15.2% fall in the second quarter. Of course, if you compare it to Europe's average, it is precisely Europe's average. These were announced a week ago by EUROSTAT, 15%. So we are on the average of Europe, while we are a tourist country, and we need to be hit even further because of this. In addition, Spain 22.1%, Italy 17.3% and I would remind you that we are in the second quarter with closed tourism. Imagine what would happen if we left him closed in the third quarter. 15% would be minimal in relation to what we would see in a quarter with closed tourism, so the government took a clear position and said: Yes, our economy should gradually open safely, with health alertness. Secondly, the opening-up of the economy. The fact that the sms have stopped, that we have come out of our homes, that the activity has been opened, that the shops have been reopened, whether they are commercial restaurants or anything, and that they have also opened the borders since July 1st would bring about an increase in cases? Of course he would. No one told the Greek people we'd stay at zero. I have said that to committee there are countries which have not opened borders and have increased over and many times the growth that our country now has. Our country is also successful in this process. Obviously, it is a new balance that all of us need to get used to and listen to the experts on this new path that we are all driving. But we can hear them. The strategy of the country, the government, the Prime Minister himself has not changed. And I'm gonna give you a parentheses, 'cause it sounded like two, three. The New Democracy Government has never cared for success. The Prime Minister always states the seriousness of the Greek people, the fact that he does not believe in the theories of conspiracy, the fact that he saw and believed, the fact that we put the experts in front of them every day. Politicians did not come out every day to update and familiarize themselves, this model was seen in other countries with politicians, either prime ministers or health ministers, informing each other every day and we may have seen what problems it has led to. Our country has succeeded, because we have all succeeded together, the Greek people have succeeded. And if there were some doubts at some point as to whether we should have a mask or not, if there were some doubts that we might have felt a little more that we had achieved, and we should be a little more cautious, this seems to have been corrected and corrected. We don't go to the number of cases that would be normal to have. Why? Because we have all succeeded together, because once again we are all serious, because Greek hoteliers, Greek tourist professionals, travel agents, bus drivers or bus owners did not make discounts in health protocols. The health protocols worked, and they worked because we in all tourist businesses have few cases. And where there are cases, because the issue of control has been heard, the government is closing the shops, as is said for as long as the legality of health is not respected in this vast subject. Backwards occurs, controls are serious and are strong. Did this whole situation create a lot of pressure on the health system? Not for now. I'm talking again for now. We don't look good on the situation. The battle is day after day. We're talking about a dynamic situation that we're going to be on top every day and listen to doctors, listen to experts, listen to professionals who are responsible for various pieces, and in any case we'll be next to them to make decisions according to their suggestions. Did the opening become random? Don't say that again. You blamed us for not having a plan. But we have opened, we are open, we are not doing this without a plan, we are not just making a flimsy 'now we have opened'. Businessly, the Ministry of Health was strengthened. Of course, because it sounds about changes in the portfolios, it seems that Mrs. Notopoulou has asked for the Ministry of Health's portfolio, for the Ministry of Health he opposed more than the Stepma. I said again that from the results of the mobile gradients at the hotels in the country, we found few cases. The tests increased operationally. We've been up five units or more in the number of tests our country's doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u96	Fifth country!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u97	Fifth country in Europe. We're here to run ten thousand tests. At first it was under a thousand. All this is an effort of services, of private and public officials, and ultimately of citizens to be able to succeed. Diplomatically we are in constant contact with all countries to see the best methodology, to open up these restrictions, to open up our own, to monitor with our system, the innovative one. This system has already been requested by two countries and we are giving information and information to these countries, because they are back and I am referring to larger European countries than us. We cannot feel disadvantaged and atrocious in this Psoroccostanna culture. This attitude must finally be dismantled. Here we have achieved a number of things and we have to say 'bravo' to ourselves. And I say again, not to the government, leave the government. The Greek people achieved these things, most of them. And in any case, Greek scientists came, recommended and gave the solutions for what we do. Evidently putting new innovative systems in the first few days, the first time you try, you try to change. I repeat that we are fighting diplomaticly and today still having a positive decision from the United Kingdom. We hope that this will be a positive decision. We have given and given the battle every day and the public - which you see - in the countries, but also on a diplomatic level so that we can provide our evidence that our country is safe. And by the way, let me say from the Step forward of the House that it is an unjust decision and horizontal - 'harsh' and 'disproportional' are the right expressions in English - the decision of the Scottish Government. I fear that it also involves us in the internal policy that the various regions of the United Kingdom have. Because when the United Kingdom itself puts a cubit twenty cases in the last seven days per 100 000 inhabitants and we are in thirteen, reducing the number, namely, in the direction of reduction - I say it and stabilisation - they cannot make such horizontal decisions for the whole country. And I call on everyone to agree on that at least. We had a front. Well, look at the results. Other major tourist superpowers are completely excluded. Yesterday Germany blocked the last part, the Canaries of Spain. Other countries were aggressively invaded. They said "we'll open faster to catch part of the market" and catch up at the beginning. Then they were excluded because they lost control of the cases three, four, five times. Our country keeps a health balance, because most of all decisions are based on health criteria. The first objective is the security of citizens and will continue to be. If you want, let me see it closely. As Minister of Tourism, I would like us to be more aggressive, more open, to be able to operate more possibly. But I recognise that it is time for the health and safety of citizens and that the balance of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, is correct. I recognise that and that is how it should be done, even if I sit sometimes and apologise for things that are wider tourism. Now, too, it is sounding and perhaps it is true that the United Kingdom, for example, will close Portugal. Two weeks ago, he opened it. They didn't have time for the first travelers to return with the opening and returning, they'll quarantine them. This is an unprecedented situation. No country has the tape. There is no 'how they did it last year or yesterday'. The problem is global and the pandemic is global. Our country is comparatively coordinated in both the lead and remains the pioneering of the new balance that we need to find. I'll say, if you want, a couple of words like a final conversation. Will the revenue be 10% or 15%, 3 billion? Allow me to say that this is not a fall. This is 10% or 15% or 20% more than you would expect us to have just three months ago. This is an impact on employment almost twice, because recruitment is more than the turnover, so it can be 30% and 40% and 50% of workers who find work, while under other circumstances they would not have found and we will continue to do so, trying to support the economy. I have said that with the GDP figures. We're doing this with a health balance. I promised you the information given a few days ago and Mr Petsa, which shows that our country is better and in a number of cases from all the countries of reference, such as Belgium, the Netherlands and Portugal. It is better for our country and it continues and remains. It was, and it's still. It didn't change that, and if something happened, the distance was increased. I put it in the Minutes for there to be. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above figures, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The balance of the opening-up of the economy will therefore be difficult. It'll be a day-to-day job. We'll continue with her. Our work doesn't stop here. It will continue until the last flight, if you like, is over, this very difficult year. And finally, you have to decide whether to continue with the inexpensive criticism or to be serious at last. Because this criticism has all the benefits for you, the creation of a fuss, but the account is sent to others, to hoteliers, to agents, to tourist workers. So say at last if you want to help the country and tourism. Say that Greece is a safe country for every one who visits it and that there is no reason why they should put our country in red. She's safe. Only in this way can you help, because the country has succeeded in managing it and will continue to succeed as long as we are all struggling together, daily, for the benefit of every Greek and every Greek, whose livelihood depends on Greek tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u98	And we thank the Minister. Although not provided, I will give the floor for two or three minutes to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, who has been here since this morning, consistent. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, thank you. After all, Mr. Bukkokouros has taken the floor today on a point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u100	But let us not open up a debate in general. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u101	No, very soon. But I must respond to three issues raised by the Minister. First of all, Minister, I would say that instead of criticising the opposition, you should recognise that unlike your own opposition in previous years, and the Acoustic Opposition, but I would say in total, the parties of the Greek Parliament supported particularly when we had the difficult health measures of the quarantine and with very great responsibility, like the Greek people. So because you have asked why we are criticizing, I will tell you this. We are critical, Minister, because when we were discussing the tourism bill and the relevant sector, Mrs Notopoulou and I and all the colleagues who had spoken, we had pointed out that tourism was open, but there were still no health protocols, there was no concrete plan. You told us we'd be in denial. And we said, 'I wish we were disproved', but, unfortunately, you and the tourism sector, but also the government as a whole, handled the opening of the economy and'seeing and doing' in all areas at the end of August. I am also referring to education, health and how we see all the inconsistencies and regressions of the government to pay them, and the country and the Greek people, and of course the image of the country you spoke about so much. Unfortunately, the reality is - all my fellow Members have said before - that you have opened the gates of entry in a confusion and repetition after the Santorini fieste. We have then seen a repetition of the health measures for tourism itself, without proper support for businesses. We all went to our home places. I was in Kefalonia. I've experienced the agony of the world. We saw in August, when the second wave had already begun to appear with its consequences, to increase completeness on ships, rather than to increase as government routes to the islands. Mr President, I can only say that - and our rapporteur has said so - the time that the National Health System is supposed to have been supported, we have the National Health Center blocked completely for a week in terms of tests. We see the full reorganisation of the CEDEFOP and the supply of masks, as the schools are currently opening and the competition has not even moved forward or the funds for school cleaning have not even gone to start schools fully. We are not here to make sense of criticism. We have a democratic duty to point this out, so that you can finally get yourself serious and not be overthrown, but even now take all the necessary steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u103	Here you go, Minister. But not to open the dialogue too much to close the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u104	Thirty seconds I'm gonna need it. I said it and I say it again. Where, in fact, the heart of your criticism is that the continuous monitoring of the data, the dynamic process, especially in the opening up of tourism, you baptize it "oldenness". It's not like that. Data changes daily and we'll be above this data and medical level. Doctors themselves see newer studies, find newer medicines, they say that "what we said works no longer" or anything else. We'll listen to them and watch them. Knowledge changes into something so dynamic. So that is not an old age, and we will continue to say it and we will continue to do so. Otherwise, with regard to individual criticism of the alpha or the beta theme, we are obviously here, you do well to do it and we will continue to listen to it and run the procedures as soon as possible. You know very well how unprecedentedly public administration has responded to this issue. You can drink one time from matters that go beyond countries. The countries at the moment and in the past months have fought together to obtain one another and the other tests to obtain the masks, personal protective equipment and all that. And there were periods of serious shortages and problems. Our country has succeeded and fully responded and continues to meet the needs. And the coordination that has been established is unprecedented. I conclude by saying that I want to assure every worker in tourism, every business, every small, medium-sized or large destination, that, as in the beginning and in the middle of the crisis, he has found the support that the government had to give in the coming announcements and the next period he will find support from the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy. We will do so by trying, on our part, to reduce the problem as much as possible by allowing the tourist economy to become active and function as possible as the health conditions allow. This battle we will continue to give every day, and this is our promise, the entire political leadership, the Deputy Minister, Manos Konsolas, and me personally, to the Greek people and people of tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. I have the impression that everyone, with a great deal of tolerance on my part, has been given the opportunity to speak. In fact, I can say that I got away from my duties in order not to interrupt anyone I could. And in this process, and with the latest position of the Minister, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of tourism". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the second article, the hotel article, and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u106	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u107	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u108	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Undoing the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for cooperation in the field of tourism’ was accepted by a majority of uniform on the principle of Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u110	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-03-S1-commons.u111	With the agreement of the House at 13.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 4 September 2020 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
