ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the special sitting of the Greek Parliament is opened. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 12-3220 authorisation, the minutes of the RIZ PRAZ meeting held on Thursday 12 March 2020 with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Trade marks — incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions’.]] [[APPROVAL OF THE PRESIDENT OF BOULIS Mr KONSTANTINO TASULA ON THE ELECTRONIC PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC Mr Akaterini SAKELLOPOULOU AND THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION]] The sole subject of the Order is the oath, in accordance with Article 33 of the Constitution, of the elected by the vote of the House President of the Hellenic Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou. Today's sitting, as you can see, is not taking place, as is customary in the respective circumstances, in a large number of parliament, because Parliament, despite the importance of having a sworn-up of the Country's Supreme Lord, is taking action and transmitting messages of protection of public health, so necessary at this time for our people and for our homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that immediately after the special sitting of the Greek Parliament on 22 January 2020, at which the President of the Republic was elected and in accordance with the mandate given by this House, the President of Parliament, Mr Constantine Tsoulas, accompanied by the members of the Bureau of the House, visited the elected President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulos, and announced to her on behalf of this House the outcome of the vote and of her election as President of the Hellenic Republic. The President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tasoulas, on behalf of the House, addressed the President of the Republic, Mr Catherine Sakellariou, who replied to this address. The two texts of address and opposition - they will be read and recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: 'Mr President, In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and after unanimous approval of this Parliament, I have the honour and pleasure to announce to you your election as President of the Republic by the National Representation, which was convened this morning for this very purpose, at a special meeting. The proposal of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, presented by its President and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for your face, was widely accepted by 261 votes, overcoming the requirement of a 2/3 majority of the total number of Members, set out in Article 32(3) of the Constitution for the first vote, but also by ratifying your unified and worthwhile candidate. The legitimate constitutional and historical requirements for consensual election of the Supreme Prince therefore happened, with the above, to your application and high duties as a regulator of the civil society, which ensures the harmonious functioning of the powers of the State, to begin prosperously. I announce to you your celebratory and overwhelming majority of your election in your office, the office of President of the Council of State, a court for which the late Michael Stasinopoulou, the first President of the Third Hellenic Republic and also the President of this Court, wrote that he "created a new era in the public vocabulary of the country". At this new time, the direction of Eleftherios Venizelos to the new Court is entirely reflected: "You have in favour of the Minister of Law, because the law must be superior to both the small employee and the senior, superior to all authorities, both superior to the Minister and the King, even if the work of rectification is to be carried out successfully to the end". Therefore, having come from this state of justice, you have already demonstrated by your self-creating course that you have the institutional record in order to fully fulfil the responsibilities of office, which the Greek Parliament has just given you as a regulator of the civilization and an expression of the unity of the nation, which is called upon to send positive and fertile messages to the outside and national dignity. Inside, where a course of instability and preparedness began, and abroad, where the exacerbation of the provocation requires a forging of both our national unity and our deterrent power. The second President of the Third Republic of Greece, Constantine Tsatsos, wrote after his term of office in the Presidency: "I had to become President of the Republic, to discover my compatriots that I know how to write and confine myself to my professions." Such a decent complaint will not be made by you. It was so positive that the climate created after the Prime Minister's proposal, which even those who did not already know you, had been informed about the excellent judiciary, which, in her face, is honored both by justice and by modern Greeks and, in her face, is also verified by a perfect description of the fourth book of "Politicals" on the democracies: "While the best of the citizens is in the presidency" (because when the democracies are based on the law, it is not meant to be a democrat and the best of the citizens are in the public". Greece, at the beginning of the 3rd decade of the first century, demands its place in the modern advanced world, having for the first time a Greek woman in the highest step of the state. According to the poet: "To this staircase, you must be a citizen of the city with your right to be a citizen of the city's ideas. And hard in that city, it's rare for them to naturalize you. On the market you find legislation that no detainee laughs." From this top step you will represent the Hellenic Republic in the great celebration of the completion of two centuries from the Greek Revolution of 1821, a celebration that we will make with our meditations fertile backwards, towards the founding years of our state, but also with our gaze on the front, towards an optimistic future, already built by Greeks and Greeks. After your esteemed choice, I wish from your heart worthy of your service, for the sake of the nation and our people." Objection to the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Akaterinis SAKELLAROPOULOU, President-in-Office of the Council, 'Mr President of Parliament, Thank you for the message you are giving me and the kind words with which you are accompanimenting it. Please pass on to the Greek Parliament my thanks for the honour, which it holds on to my face and the assurance that I have a full consciousness of the burden, which I bear and of the debt that I bear. I promise that I will perform my duties in the context of the Constitution and in cooperation with Parliament, the Government and the opposition parties, seeking the greatest possible consensus, which is a guarantee for the smooth functioning of democracy. Our country, a modern rule of law and for many years a member of the European Union, has been a factor of stability, development, culture and democracy in the wider region. The necessary prerequisite for maintaining and improving this position is to ensure its territorial integrity and sovereign rights. I do not forget the difficult conditions, which exist globally and the corresponding challenges of the twentieth century, including the economic crisis, climate change, mass migration and the resulting humanitarian crisis, the retreat of the rule of law and all sorts of inequalities and exclusions, which go beyond the limits of the states and require cooperation at international level. Especially for our country, the incorporation into the social climate of peace, security and confidence, economic development, the reversal of the fleeing of young people abroad and the protection of the weak are priorities. The mobilisation and cooperation of human resources, the improvement of education and the health system, respect, protection and enhancement of the natural and cultural environment, the exploitation of new technologies and the opening up of society to new ideas and initiatives are factors leading to these objectives. I look forward to a society which respects the rights provided for both by our Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights, a society that, based on its long democratic tradition, heals the injuries of the past, faces the challenges of the present and is optimistic about the future. With hope for this future, I assure Parliament and all the Greeks and Greeks that I will have all my powers in the fulfilment of my constitutional role)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u2	Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, Vice-President of Parliament, is hereby invited to the Chamber of Parliament to accompany the late Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Jeronymou, and to accompany the members of the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece. [[After the entrance of the Holy Synod]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are waiting for the arrival of the new President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou, and we are adjourned for a moment so that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tsouulas, can welcome the President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulos, on behalf of the National Representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u3	The sitting shall be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou, accompanied by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tasou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Supreme President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou, elected by her vote at the sitting on 22 January 2020, will give the oath laid down in Article 33(2) of the Constitution. Please beg the Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece and the Holy Synod to return the settled ties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u4	Please, Sire, go to the Chair for the vow of the President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou. [[At this point the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece is in the Chair.]] Please, Prime Minister, go to the Chair for the vow of the President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sacellaropoulou. [[At this point, the Prime Minister is in the Chair]] Please, Your Honor, Madam President of the Republic, put your hand in the Holy Gospel and repeat the oath, which is to be read by the Makariot, whom I ask you to read. [[The Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece reads the oath, which the President of the Republic reiterates:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Ompossia and Indivisible Trinity to guard the Constitution and the laws, to ensure their faithful respect, to defend the national independence and integrity of the Chora, to protect the rights and freedoms of the Greeks and to serve the general interest and progress of the Greek people"
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u5	That's worthy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u6	Please begged that the second Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Charalambos Athanasios, should pave the way for the Makarios Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Hieronynos and his accompaniments to the Holy Synod of the Church of Greece. [[The Makariot Archbishop of Athens and all Greece, Mr. Ieronyos, and his accompanies, members of the Holy Synod, comes out of the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u7	The House granted the authorization requested. I would remind you that a wreath will be tabled by the President of the Republic, Mrs Catherine Sakellaropoulou, immediately, and I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to come down to the Monument of the Unknown Soldier. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-13-S1-commons.u8	With the consent of the House, 11.44 minutes will be closed.
