ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to announce to the House that the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Economics and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Rural Development and Food and Tourism tabled a draft law on 9-320: 'Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Prevention, protection and promotion of health - Development of public health services". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 5 March 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Vartzopoulos, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask that the electronic record system be opened and, when Mr Andreas Xanthos, rapporteur of SYRIZA, comes down from the Step, the system will be closed. Pleasure request, for the sake of which we all understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u3	For public health reasons!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u4	That's it! Come on, Mr. Varzopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it may be accidental, but it is symbolic and important that we are discussing a draft law on public health, while we are now in the '6' phase of a pandemic during the World Health Organisation. This means that what we are talking about here - and that is why it is really important and symbolic - is not just programmes, it is not just thoughts, it is not just designs. It is a substance, it is a design of policies and actions on which lives depend. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating the Minister for this manipulation, thanking all the Parliament's wings for the responsible attitude, and wish you, Mr Minister, as executive authority, and all of us good luck and success, and our fate to continue until the end of the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law comes to replace Law 3370/2005, a law that was truly excellent and which, as a context and attitude, established our policy, of course with the necessary changes at times, for fifteen years. Law 3370/2005, now changes the Kaklamani law because the new concept of public health exceeds the traditional limits of hygiene and prevention and is necessarily extended to cross-sectoral interventions to reduce risk factors, namely changing the way of life and the ecological and social environment in which we are all born, working and living. This law merely sets out the main axes of this new concept and defines as far as possible operational actions to support them and defines the institutions to implement them. In order to have a picture of the challenges, although in the past twenty years life expectancy in Greece has increased and is also higher in the European Union - we are at 81 years and something, in 80.5, the country still faces issues, such as the increase in morbidity due for example to our lifestyle, the high incidence of smokers, high levels of obesity. However, in addition to this, there are - according to the OECD's latest annual report - indicators that there is increased mortality from non-transmissible diseases, cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive lung disease, cancer. This is certainly a matter of public health. It shows us that there is still a deficit in pre-contractual checks, as there is a question of dealing with all these diseases from our secondary care. Last but not least, it is the importance of the deterioration of the mental health of the general population, due to the last decade and the deterioration of social and economic living conditions, which is also exacerbated by the fact that a coherent public health service system is still lacking in the country. That is why the five-year National Action Plan for Public Health has already been reintroduced to address all these challenges. This defines the framework, but the implementation of which is now compulsory for all operators, all the services involved in the public health sector, as is important - and for the country's primary and secondary authorities. This national action plan is specific to specific projects involving either specific objectives or specific population groups or specific local conditions per regional section. The national plan has some real, substantial, methodological innovations, that is, a roadmap. It also includes intermediate targets, which are expressed in measurable indicators. It shall specify the means of achieving these indicators and shall define the budget of the actions. In other words, it's fully costly. The appropriations required to this end shall be entered in a special budget code of the Ministry and all other bodies implementing actions of the national project. The aim is not only to monitor absorption, but also to increase the average, so that it can be slowly approached to that of the European Union. For the first time, the annual report on the health of the population, submitted by the Minister of Health, is also introduced every year, of course, to the Ministerial Council and to the Committee on Social Affairs of the Parliament. The annual report is an important tool. It includes all available data for all key risk factors, i.e. the causes of population morbidity, it describes individual actions and policies, but in particular for the year, and quantifies the targets proposed, including specific data on the methodology for achieving them. It is important - indeed important - that this annual report is now being submitted by all public health bodies, who are implementing relevant actions, as are primary and secondary authorities. The report shall be submitted to the Secretary-General for Public Health in the first quarter of each year and shall be monitored for its implementation. As far as the specific action plans are concerned, it is noteworthy that it is being introduced, for example, within the next two-year action plan to reduce the energy footprint of all health institutions, aiming at reducing it by 38% by 2030, as foreseen by the National Energy and Climate Plan. It also introduces and prepares a pan-Hellenic health and nutritional study - every five years it - for the purpose of monitoring the population's food behaviour, promoting healthy nutrition and a corresponding reduction in obesity indicators. However, the most essential innovation in the five-year national plan is the inclusion in it of the National Prevention Programme, called "DOXIADE". In this regard, it is good to refer to the concept of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention activities, at least for non-medical colleagues. Primary prevention is available when there are interventions and actions aimed at reducing the incidence of diseases prior to clinical onset. Such actions are vaccinations, physical exercise, smoking avoidance. Secondary prevention is when we have interventions aimed at early detection of a disease, but there is, but it has not occurred clinically, so that the prognosis is better and more flexible. Such interventions are, for example, pre-cautionary tests for cancer, frequent assessment of cardiovascular risk, oral health and so on. We have a tertiary prevention with interventions aimed at reducing incapacity, that is, reducing disability, restoring lesions and preventing relapse to diseases that have occurred and are treated clinically. Such interventions are, for example, physico-therapies, vascular, cerebral, as well as the provision of continuous comforting and relief care to chronic patients. The programme "DOXIADIA", therefore, consists of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention actions, which, however, - be careful - are implemented free of charge, all covered by the EEA, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and specificisation by area of actions and bodies implementing them. The individual programmes, which are at least initially designed, related to the “DOXIDIS SYSTEM”, are the National Programme for the Promotion of Healthy Nutritional Nutrition and Physical Exercise, the National Programme for Reduction of Harmful Alcohol Consumption and the National Programme for Vaccines, as regards primary prevention actions, the National Programme for Prevention, the National Programme for Preventive Infectious Neoplasmic Disease Controls and the National Programme for Systemic Prenatal and Perinatal Control, with regard to secondary prevention actions, and the National Programme for Psychosocial Integration and Rehabilitation, either for special population groups or for mentally suffering from severe or less severe diseases, psychological disturbances, for example, which is a programme focusing on actions that focus on mainly tertiary prevention. As far as the institutions implementing these public health policies are concerned, the draft law provides for some old and some innovations. Generally speaking, the structures implementing the public health actions are the Ministry's General Secretariat for Public Health, the Directorate-General for Public Health and Quality of Life, but which changes in its composition, in its establishment, the addresses recommended by this Act, for the first time, by the Public Health of Health of the Health regions, the bodies supervised by the General Secretariat of Public Health, i.e. ETHY, the National Agency for Public Health, the OkANA, the Centre for the Treatment of Extended Persons, KETHES, the Institute for Health of the Child, the National Medicine Agency, the National Medicine Agency, the EOF, the Institute for Pasteurs. In place of the National Public Health Board, the Committee of Public Health Experts is set up. Services, organisations and other bodies, as part of primary health, which exist, monitor and coordinate, as, for example, in addition to classical primary health care structures, are coordinated and controlled in terms of their effectiveness and bodies such as national or regional prevention centres for dependent persons or for the assistance of psychosocial health, medical centres and so on. In particular, as regards innovations, the General Secretariat's Directorate-General for Public Health and Quality of Life for the first time provides for the establishment of a Social Capital Mobilisation Department. The work of this section first of all is to coordinate and support voluntary organisations and civil society organisations that are active or want to be active in the field of public health. In particular, this section deals with the systematic collection of volunteer action data in order to avoid duplication and more effective operational coordination. It shall supervise the conclusion and supervision of memorandums of cooperation between volunteers and public bodies responsible for the implementation of these actions, as well as oversee the establishment and maintenance of a special register of Greek and international voluntary organisations, as well as any other body that wants and can participate in the implementation of the five-year national action plan. The conditions for participation in this register of voluntary organisations, which will be able to implement public health actions, are as follows: firstly, the non-profit-making nature, the existence of a responsible financial management or fund, with certified qualifications, and the control of financial statements of accountants, the definition and employment of a responsible person responsible for monitoring compliance with the relevant legislation, as well as the existence of a certified system for encryption of users' data, the existence of a minimum permanent scientific team and its manager, which can, of course, be framed on a case-by-case basis by other volunteers and for the purposes of each action, but should not be established after the registration and will certainly not be created and will not only have an ad hoc character, i.e. it will be more permanent. The obligation is also a prerequisite for the participation of volunteer doctors in civil liability insurance programmes, as is the obligation for non-governmental organisations to cooperate permanently, if they have relevant actions, with a certified medical waste manager. I say all this in detail in order to make it very clear that registration in this register and involvement in public health actions is not simple, but it is something that requires a structure that is structured and that certain strict conditions are met. In my opinion, it is very important to set up for the first time a Directorate for Public Health in each health region, which the commander is also aware of as well as responsible for primary health care. The Ministry thus acquires for the first time an operational arm at local level, even for public health actions. He didn't have him. This address, I believe, may have a key role to play. The aim of the first aspect is the direct and absolute interconnection of course with the existing primary care units and the coordination of all local actors in the coordination and implementation of public health actions. More specifically, it has the Action Planning Department, which examines the proposals of all relevant bodies, including non-governmental organisations, in order to be able to submit positive or negative suggestions to the relevant Directorate-General of the Ministry in order to avoid overlapping. The Public Health Action Application Department, on the other hand, coordinates activities and monitors their implementation. The existing aid, health and prevention networks and primary services for midwives and obstetrics are part of this section. This recording from the intentions and programmes planning section and the experience of the implementation section from synergies and overlap will be valuable assistant in designing the future, i.e. creating regional public health structures, with clear organisational charts, job description and process flows. These regional structures all hope that at some point, in the context of a decentralised state, they will finally, as the European character of the state requires, be subject to local self-government. The draft law provides as the successor of the National Public Health Council the Public Health Experts Committee as a scientific, advisory and advisory body of the Ministry. The Committee supports the Secretary-General, recommends the national action plan, five years, delivers opinions on the methodology of the annual report, proposes a methodology and evaluation criteria and sets the public health sector into the research priorities. In the event of an emergency - good time - the committee has the powers of the old National Public Health Council, allowing the award of a public contract by the EGE in the negotiation process, without prior publication in the current legislation, as well as in the event of such needs, it is entitled, and must now submit to the relevant Head of the Ministry's Directorate-General responsible for the recruitment of fixed-term staff, specifying the categories, specialities and the budget for the corresponding commitment of financial appropriations from the EGE. Staff shall be recruited in accordance with the procedures in force. As far as the establishment of the committee is concerned, there is a different philosophy here from...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u6	You're gonna have to pick it up slowly. You will have the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives and the right to secondary education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u7	Wait a minute, Mr President, thank you. This was mainly where the institutions, the National School, PIS, the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, the schools and the others were represented. Now the Ministry has decided that it is better and more effective to involve the directly involved bodies referred to in Article 5-OKANA and others - while the others, the key figures from the scientific area, will also be the Executive Committee and will be chosen by the Minister between specialists, but also of personal interest. Of particular importance is the fact that the committee is supported by a multi-faceted scientific secretariat, which gives depth and width to its work. It is also of particular importance for operational coordination - and I say this on the grounds of knowledge as an old co-ordinator - that interministerial committees, chaired by the respective Director-General for Public Health and involving the Director-General of the Ministries, may also be set up. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I say this: it is a bill of honour with regard to the purity of its objectives. It is a modest bill, because it provides framework and regulates procedures and can be enriched with various policies. And I am sure that this bill will have the fate and the long-term date it has had and the Kaklamani bill it replaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u8	Good. The general rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Andreas Xanthos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to make a detailed reference to the subject of the situation, which is a public health crisis, the epidemic outbreak with the new coronary and the way it is managed more effectively. The draft law has already been discussed in detail in committee. There is the criticism that I will concentrate on at the end, but let me start with it. So we're in a new phase. We are in the phase of gradually increasing dispersion in the community. This imposes new measures to limit transmission and not eliminate it, obviously. And, of course, we see it as a case that takes dramatic proportions in some countries, such as neighbouring Italy. We have made it clear from the outset that on this crucial issue the stance of the SYRIZA and the Police Department is a stand of responsibility and seriousness. We did not do and will not do the sliding that New Democracy systematically did when it was opposition, which took advantage of the corresponding public health difficulties and crises - the seasonal outbreak of influenza with the dead, with victims, with dispersed among the general population, with measles epidemic, cases of the Western Nile virus, malaria cases - and systemically invaded, destroyed, compromised and blamed the ministry's government and political leadership. We will, firstly, continue to accept the suggestions and recommendations made by a credible committee of experts, infectious agents and epidemiologists set up by the Ministry and giving the necessary guidelines. We will focus on monitoring the implementation of these directives. That is our role, to make political control over implementation, and here there are problems, which have already begun to appear in the process, in the health system, in the adequacy of the instruments, in the awareness of human resources, in coordination between public structures. The ESS lifts the heavy burden and once again proves the value not generally and vaguely of public care, but the value of public care structures, because there is also this counter-compensation often on the part of the Coupling, that the public does not necessarily mean state. State structures, state hospitals, state primary care structures, public health protection services are the ones who are currently raising the burden of dealing with this great threat. So what does he need? There is a need for serious operational support from the public health system at this time, immediately, sufficient and effective. Firstly, we must prevent the removal of human resources from the ERC at this time. So we must go directly to renewing all contracts of all kinds of staff serving in the health system. We must not allow the leaking of valuable human resources and health professionals from the ESS. Secondly, we must go to immediate reinforcement of the critical link that plays a role in dealing with, in the chain of addressing this epidemic threat. Primary care structures, emergency departments and, of course, ITH, which we hope and wish for cases - anyway - are such that there is no great pressure, especially on the part of intensive care. This is to be done by direct support - in our view - with at least a thousand contracted health professionals, who aim to strengthen these linkes, particularly the part of intensive care units. In order to respond to this invitation, that is to say, a contract that we consider should be at least one year or, if necessary, two years - the idea of four-month contracts to deal with the outbreak of the disease, I think it is totally wrong, we must go for at least annual or two-year contracts - and, in order to have an incentive for health professionals to come to this period, there must be a clear political commitment that there will be increased pre-service moleculosis for those who are called and undertake to back up and contribute to this stage in the acute response to the problem. Thirdly, a proclamation of permanent staff, and that is the signal to be given by contractors to serve public structures. There is a significant delay in the launching of the recruitments that we completed and were ready to issue within rule 1/1 in 2019. There was a provision of two and a half thousand recruits, a thousand doctors, and a thousand other staff. About a thousand doctors' positions with a very long delay, a seven-month delay, were announced some time ago, the remaining ones of a thousand five hundred - a thousand thirty-five had been announced by the government - still to be proclaimed. This is a very important delay. We must immediately publish them by way of distribution by hospital, by structure, by specialisation, where appropriate, as is the case. And, of course, they must be accompanied by the two and a half thousand recruitments for 2020. In total, that is to say, we have to go to a plan of four thousand permanent staff hirings based on 1/1 - that is to say it is guaranteed - to leave to the public, so that we also give a signal to today's contractors who are serving, but also to those who will be invited at this stage to contribute, that they can with the pre-service bonus and with their qualifications and with dignity claiming a permanent place in the system. Intergroup committee on the management of these urgent needs in recruitment and procurement: In order to avoid the slightest question from anyone that we have made use of the pressure of the juncture, the threat of the coronary and the public health crisis to circumvent procedures, so that there is no transparency and that there is no impartiality, that there is a cross-party committee, with the contribution of all the political forces, which will check the procedures of this really necessary and urgent support of the ESS, both with human and material resources. Measures to protect workers in the ESS: It is a critical link. The workers in the system, the doctors, the nurses, the rest of the staff, who are currently called upon to manage this crisis, must feel that the state ensures that they have all the necessary protective measures, that they are able to do their part, and that there is systematic information, rules and guidelines for the management of suspected cases and for better coordination of health units throughout the country and not just of the reference hospitals. That's critical. It concerns rural and urban health centres, local health units, TOMY, hospitals throughout the country. And I think there is a deficit of systematic information. Coordination is therefore necessary. The EMCDDA must play an upgraded role in this period and our sense is that this subjection and its integration with the EMCDDA at this time is problematic, does not respond and does not have the reflexes. Operational four-month or six-month plan: The forecasts of international, say, health organizations are that we will have a peak and a retreat of this case, which will last several months in the next period. There must therefore be an operational plan at a depth of four months or six months, which will obviously have an escalation of the measures that will be taken on the basis of risk assessment at any time. That's what makes sense. There must be a proportionality and a responsibility, taking into account all the consequences, social and economic. There must be a channel of communication, a systematic, two-way information and an update of the information directives on good practices in other countries, between our country, the European Centre for the Management of Infections, the ECDC, and the World Health Organisation. There must also be systematic information from the Ministry of Health, experts and citizens and health professionals and political forces about developments and appropriate measures at each stage. And, of course, there must be intervention in the European Union to prepare a common mechanism for the supply of the necessary materials, instruments, tomorrow - possibly new vaccines or medicines which will arise, in an equal manner and not only on the basis of the purchasing or economic power of each country. I think that any positive development in the therapeutic or preventive treatment of this epidemic should be done in a way that ensures that all countries and all citizens have access. So we need temper, maturity, responsibility and not reassurance. This story is a challenge both for society and for citizens and vulnerable groups, both for the media and for the Church and for the political system and for health professionals. It is a great challenge and we cannot leave space to unscientific approaches, to intolerance, to racist behaviour, to lack of solidarity and respect for human rights. Allow me here to make a reference to the part of the refugee - immigration - which is also an important issue, which has a health perspective. The government has now chosen to create a divisive and polaristic climate. It's really a sensitive area. The previous government did not allow this issue, which is a great test for the whole of Europe, to become a public health problem because there were early interventions to prevent, treat cases, not to disperse into the community, etc. Unfortunately, what we see is this: these days, instead of our country being, as in the past, a country which visits personalities, intellectuals, people of the spiritual world from all over the world, from all countries to express their respect and solidarity in the efforts of a bankrupt country to deal with humanity, dignity and solidarity with this great pressure, is a country hosting newly-neonazis, who are coming to help the domestic para-state, which, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have ridiculed in Macedonian and refugee. And I'm ending up with an outline reference to the bill itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill below the circumstances. There is a need to adjust the institutional framework that existed, the 2005 Act, but I think that this approach is below the circumstances. It is indicative that it does not even provide for a permanent mechanism for epidemiological surveillance and intervention, which proved to be necessary at this stage. This committee was set up ad hoc. It is credible, we all support it, but the system needs more institutional armour, which I do not see. Also, the bill is ideological, it has the logic of "less state", it is centralised, creates institutions and devaluates bodies involved in public health: EIAH, National School of Public Health, respective university departments, Institute of Health of the Child, primary care structures that are systematically involved in prevention, health education and intervention in the community. It is very degraded the logic of primary care, which is the crucial instrument for the intervention and prevention of risks to public health. So he has a centralism. There is a national panel of experts appointed by the Minister, and only the minority has an institutional representation. In the health regions, it is appropriate to provide Directorates for Public Health. Our counter-proposal, however, is to be addresses of primary care and public health, precisely to highlight the need for interconnection. Institutional steps taken in the previous period are ignored: a national public health strategy prepared in cooperation with the WHO; a national action plan on hepatitis C; a national action plan for HIV infection; a national action plan for alcohol; a national action plan for antimicrobial resistance. These are institutional work that has emerged from the previous government and which now seems to remain in the air after this approach. Public health is a horizontal policy, as has been said by Spyros Doxiadis, which you rightly refer to under the title of the National Prevention Programme. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President. "Health and disease are not primarily a matter of influence of microbes, viruses, cancer, etc. It is, in particular, a matter of influence on poverty, ignorance and exploitation of human beings.’ That's what Spyros Doxiadis said. This means practically - indeed, it is particularly important when it is called by a conservative politician, but who was aware of socio-economic health and diseasemakers - that public health requires profound social and economic changes, requires a focus on the idea of equality and universality in health care.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Xanthi, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u11	This, then, is a democratic and progressive project and requires political forces and political projects that are relied upon by the ideas of equality rather than the recognition of the natural order of things and the inequalities in society. I conclude by saying that the bet of the juncture, ladies and gentlemen, is one: defending public health and society at this time. We will do so and contribute with all our powers, seriously, responsibly, with scrutiny where we need and with positive proposals where they are imposed. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u12	We're moving on. The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not start a debate on prevention and health promotion without mentioning what has been happening lately on the basis of the coronary. It must be made clear that in the area of public health there is no place for amateurs, experiments, communication procedures for who did better. The coronary epidemic is not a simple assumption. It is the largest health bomb the whole world faces today. One cannot deny that you have not tried to prepare. However, there were functional gaps and failures. That is why we need to relaunch, correct the mistakes that have been identified and work both within the individual responsibility of the citizens and the collective responsibility of the state. The state must at the very latest support the National Health System, which is called upon to bear the burden of dealing with the epidemic. We must say a great deal of thanks to the people who serve with patronage and self-determination at the moment, namely doctors, nurses, paramedical staff. You are well aware, Minister, of the situation in which our national system is today. Since 2002, when I started working as curator II in the National Health System, I hear about changes and reforms that have never taken place. The ESS, however old and subordinated, is what at every critical moment fully assumes the burden of public health management. And now this is happening, as public hospitals are responsible for the diagnosis of the virus, the care of patients, while private clinics are trying to keep them away from this problem. That is why the ESS must remain strong, supportive, modernise, renew and receive that attention and recognition which it deserves as a pillar of safeguarding public health and public interest. We have pointed out to you, both of us and of the other groups, during the debate of the bill on the committees that the non-fast completion of the submission of applications for the posts of specialist doctors in the ERC sector because of the problem of the electronic system does not honour us. It's a problem. Can't we build a platform so people can submit their documents to be hired? The problem needs to be solved immediately. The need to staff the IMPs and MFFs, which are closed because of a lack of staff, is under discussion for so many months. We've made you - I don't remember how many - topical questions. We're all talking about the fact that we need to send the IF beds, which are closed. This must be done immediately. We are also discussing the acceleration of the positioning of doctors and nurses in the TLP. That's a big deal. Especially in the region, TENs, which are trying to operate on their own, are without personnel. These structures must be directed immediately. There is a need for cooperation with local medical clubs. Medical clubs must now take initiatives to inform and raise awareness of the citizens of the country. There is scientific staff who can come out to inform each village, every city, about what the world should do. There must be greater awareness and awareness of the world and the need to ensure adequate health and diagnostic tests for the coronary. There are shortcomings in hospitals. Let's not hide. They don't have the necessary material. In fact, I don't know if you're being properly informed by the Commanders and the Chiefs. Let's move on to the bill. I would say that the first two chapters would be positive, despite their shortcomings and ambiguities. We can only agree with the general principles of health prevention and promotion. That is why it is sufficient to point out our individual objections, and hopefully - even at the last minute - that you move on to some improvements and correct some imperfections. So the bill under discussion is the forefront of the organisation of public health to prevent government inspiration: complex and bureaucratic state structures, with parallel responsibilities, centralisation, many advisory bodies and voluntary organisations and less state. But if your political will is less a state, the solution is not to entrust the state's prevention work to voluntary organisations, but decentralisation. Decentralisation of powers and resources in local government, as the Change Movement has repeatedly pointed out, is the only way to protect the regions of the country and produce directly measurable results. Local Government I and II organisations through their Public Health Administrations have the means, competence and responsibility to implement prevention programmes, depending on the health profile of the population they have, directly and effectively. Therefore, instead of strengthening the existing structures of local authorities with staff and funding, you are transferring responsibility to voluntary organisations which do not have either the scientific staff or the means to implement prevention programmes, without even bearing the responsibility for their implementation. In any case, the public debate that has started on the role of these organisations should not disperse our attention. The preconditions which you put for participating in the implementation of the prevention programmes can be easily taken with an amendment to a later bill, and so the important task of preventing it might be at the hands of structures outside the state control. We point out here that similar registers of voluntary organisations are respected both in the Ministry of Labour and in the Ministry of Migration Policy. So the issue is not how many records we have, but what a supervisory role the state exercises and what control it carries out. It should also be noted that a legislative mechanism for selecting and evaluating these organisations is not provided for on the basis of specific criteria for the control of the services provided. If you ultimately insist on partnerships with voluntary organisations, it is necessary to pre-legislative and administrative bodies to identify the type and extent of the work they will undertake. If they will be co-operating or mainly enforceable, how will the work produced and the ex post financial control be evaluated and the approval of their funding by the Court of Auditors? Otherwise, the removal of the State recruitment project and the deposition to voluntary organisations may have unforeseen consequences. We consider it more appropriate to replace these organisations with partnerships with scientific associations in the field of public health at both local and pan-ellad levels, giving young scientists the opportunity to work, to provide them efficiently for society, while combating the famous Brain drain. In any case, the prevention work belongs to the structures of primary health care, for which we have not yet seen your intentions, as you have not yet brought a bill for their organisation. Right now our country has a hundred and twenty-seven TOMY. In the way that the previous government created and staffed, they have an empty shell that cannot provide primary health services. You to date for eight months from taking power from your Government have been consumed mainly in how you enter private individuals, with the famous PPPs, in public health. For primary health you are still speechless. With this draft law, you are establishing specific axes at each level of prevention. However, we believe that these programmes can be complemented by more complete provision of services. For example, primary prevention should necessarily include oral hygiene and the encouragement and protection of breast-feeding. At the level of secondary prevention, diabetes should also be included and a list of rare diseases requiring prior symptomatic control should be extended. In any case, particular attention must be paid to the fight against cancer, for which hereditaryity plays an important role. Therefore, serious treatment without the creation of a register of cancer patients cannot exist. Needless to stress the importance of preventing cancer, the second cause of death in the European Union, but also the importance of synchronising with the anti-cancer policies to be carried out by the European Commission by the end of March 2020. In terms of tertiary prevention, great emphasis should be placed on relief and comforting care. As far as public health bodies are concerned, you choose to set up a General Secretariat at the Ministry of Health, a centralised department, with superpowers to the relevant Secretary-General. We consider the Ministry to be more effective in maintaining its effective role and decentralising public health responsibilities to local government. The idea of creating unnecessarily new structures is that of setting up public health departments in health regions. What is the point of this fragmentation, while you themselves recognize the need for decentralisation? Two days ago you held a meeting of the relevant bodies with the President of the EGE in Achaias, Patras, at the district's headquarters and not at the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where cases of the coronary have been recorded and recorded. And failure continues, as another opportunity has been lost to correct the mistake of defining the health regions and finally to identify their territorial competences with the administrative regions of the country. Incomplete is also the composition of the Committee of Public Health Experts, in which bodies that have many years of tradition in social struggles in favour of patients, such as the LEIs and specialised scientific bodies, such as the National Institute of Neoplasms, the National Medical Precision Network on Oncology, should be involved. The Executive Secretariat is expected to be staffed with ninety-eight people in such a way that it does not seem so remarkable, further causing a cost of EUR 2.1 million at the expense of the state budget. Is this money from where they come from? I hope not from the hospital budgets. Finally, it is worth noting that, to date, the bills you bring are used to changing the names of the various operators. The CDC has become ETA. The ESRB becomes an HRB. We do not understand why you are entering these logics of cancelling the previous work, even on the subject of the name. The point is to build and not break down the right of previous governments. Finally, the establishment of the Interministerial Council for Public Health is in the right direction, but it is enough to specify in particular what matters it will have to deal with, as the reference to issues of a sectoral and cross-sectoral nature is extremely blurred. It is also important that soon the CST will be issued that will activate this instrument. We believe that the provision on the transfer of public health doctors is not in the right direction, but is in the governmental logic of the patch and the temporary solutions. In addition, deforestation of services by transfer, to serve others, is absolutely wrong. The solution is the recruitment of permanent staff and indeed the specialty of public health, as qualified doctors serving in public bodies are objectively few. Finally, we are opposed to the non-participation of the IASC, even in a supervisory role, of the recruitment to address the exceptional public health needs that the EGE can do, as Article 16 of this draft law repeals Article 50(2) of Law 4633/2019 which you have proposed. The same political paradox applies to the replacement of the EDPS with the EDPS, an instrument that SYRIZA recommended by your vote. Ladies and gentlemen, public health prevention is a great, ambitious, but also absolutely necessary task. Its responsibility is a permanent obligation of the State and a sovereign expression of the welfare state. The Change Movement has in its genes the historical tradition of PASOK to defend public health, with works that will bear its stamp until today. We have repeatedly taken the lead in reaching national consensus on its support. There is no room for ideas in the field of health. Increased life expectancy and improved quality of life must be our priority through better disposal of resources and more efficient use of the country's scientific capital. In this direction we commit that we will not stop giving the daily political battle for citizens and for the National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u14	The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Lambroulis Georgios, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Both in the explanatory report and in the first articles of the bill it becomes clear and it is stated that public health policy will be based on the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, as defined by the United Nations Declaration on the objectives of sustainable and sustainable development 2015-2030. These axes have been and constitute the framework on the basis of which all measures promoted by all civil governments and result in the deterioration of the health care of the people and health services - care, respectively. The specialisation of the measures has been carried out and continues to be carried out by means of a grid of legislation relating to the health care system, the drug by extension, in a uniform way, with the drastic reduction in public spending and the further strengthening of the individual responsibility of the people's classes to ensure that the necessary services are purchased more than once. This makes it even clearer the image of uniform and limited government benefits to all, a goal which all governments have served and served over time. The above objectives and measures for their implementation are the content of returning to normality, the so-called rationalisation of the health care system, which all governments and parties in urban management systematically put forward, while their individual differences have to do with the most effective management of the same anti-population policy. That is why they have the support of capital and of the European Union. This policy stems from the very nature of the European Union, which is aimed at defending the interests of the European monopolies and presupposes greater exploitation of workers. This is the objective basis, where, regardless of the kind of urban government, the result for the people's strata is a relative or absolute retreat of their ability to exploit the modern achievements of science and technology to satisfy their modern needs in health services, medicine, etc. And precisely the implementation of the so-called 'principal' principles of these bodies, on which this bill is based, means that issues relating to prevention and public health are neither now nor in the future to tackle the current problems and needs of the people's families, because these - in accordance with the guidelines and objectives of sustainable and sustainable development - constitute costs for capital and its state, prevent the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. It is a question of implementing the policy which the State limits its responsibility in drawing up guidelines, directives and others, because not all of this causes costs. Thus, there is no State funding for the development of public health establishments, their equipment and their full staff. Any priorities, organisational plans for prevention and public health services referred to in the bill, concern arrangements that reduce benefits in a fragmented manner on the basis of the minimum and a small part of the population, substantially strengthening the policy of benefit according to the cost - benefit and with full reinforcement of individual responsibility, which is reflected in a key element of the strategy, as well as the so-called'sensitivity' through groups of citizens or so-called good practices and behaviours of citizens, but which do not cost the State. All this concerns the implementation of the Euro-Union guidelines, which estimate that anti-population policy can be implemented more effectively when using tools for the integration of the people, with so-called participatoryness, the social corporation that will co-ordinate and take care of the implementation of this policy. On the basis of these very specific principles, the bill clearly shows the intention of the State to play a more effective role in the matters of public health and at the same time to strengthen the private health sector and the individual responsibility of the citizens. This also follows from the following: Firstly, planning by drawing up five-year national action plans, including individual actions and programmes to promote health, is based on accepting the enormous shortages in primary health care. Thus the way the government plans to manage these shortcomings, with plans for individual issues, will at best have a campaign, information and will strengthen the individual responsibility of workers and families. The implementation of even these incomplete public health plans will be entrusted to a range of public and private sector services, municipalities and NGOs, which undermines the uniform nature of primary health care. This design is not a new element. It has been implemented over the years by the governments, serving the main Euro-Union guidelines, with the policy of sub-financing, sub-delegation and trade in health to continue and strengthen even more with this planning, while at the same time putting more and more obstacles to maintaining the health of workers and other poor people's layers. Secondly, there is no mention, there is no talk of how these programmes will be implemented or whether they will be recruited in critical specialities, whether there will be state funding. Instead, it is said that the expenditure on these programmes will be borne by the insurance agencies, namely the people themselves. And all this at a time when employers' insurance contributions are being reduced, which is stolen from workers' money too. However, although the government is trying to present the bill as a cut-off for the prevention of health risks, we cannot overlook the fact that most of the programme is not identified in the bill itself, but it is up to ministerial decisions to be adopted in the future. Apart from any questions raised, it is worth standing at what is being identified. Firstly, on the issue of primary prevention. What such a draft law needs to regulate is not the adoption of the definition, as stated in the text of the bill, namely the adoption of the definition of primary prevention, but how it is implemented under the responsibility of the state. And here there is a full dimension. As is noteworthy of the fact that, while the government focuses on planning actions and actions such as healthy nutrition and exercise, avoiding alcohol, actions are essential, but they are not guaranteed through public infrastructure and services, deliberately, and at the same time leave out of planning a number of factors such as the living conditions of the people's family, adequate nutrition, housing, heating, family planning and advice, health services in schools, measures for transmitted and non-transmitted diseases, health and safety measures at workplaces and others. But even these minimum measures proposed are doubtful whether they can be implemented. So, for example, that the majority of people's families are fed on low-quality products and that much of the population is unable to meet the food needs of their organisation, are they to be improved by means of information and education actions? Since the factors associated with poor nutrition have social roots, they are inseparable from the generalised attack on workers' rights, with increased working time, flexible working relationships, working conditions, the attack on insurance, wage and pension cuts and more. Behind the food problem, bad habits do not hide, but on the one hand, a lack of time on the one hand because of an increase in intensification and working time, so that workers meet their nutritional needs with hand and low quality prepared meals, while on the other there are food business that is not aimed at producing high-quality food, but at producing food at high-priced profits and low-costs. Secondly, it is hypocrisy to talk about improving physical exercise, when today's lack of time from exhausting hours, elastic working relationships, lack of organised sports infrastructures with their respective staff, underfunding, results in the majority of the people, youth, not being able to exploit the activity of sport. So today satisfaction with the benefits of sport is a matter of individual affairs and it is entirely dependent on how much it can stand - if it can - the wallet of the people's family. No matter how motivated by the government, as it says, will improve sports facilities in schools, for example, or through information campaigns on the benefits of sport, the enormous needs of our people for sport will remain both quantitative and qualitative if commercialisation is not abolished, business activity in sport if sport does not cease to be a commodity. Because today the use of modern media, the use of the results from the development of technology, the very wealth produced by workers, enables free time to be increased and universal participation in sport, with funding, infrastructure and appropriate staff to be satisfied. Thirdly, the main axes raised in the question of limiting the risk factors from unreasonable use of alcohol. The government is facing this as an individual problem and the measures it takes are not aimed at the causes of the phenomenon, but at increasing repressive measures, such as tightening up sanctions, stepping up controls at disposal sites, etc. However, even such design cannot contribute substantially, when secondary and tertiary prevention programmes are unexistent when the centres of alcohol decompensation implemented by state structures are minimal. And an indicative indication of the situation is that public hospitals providing treatment services for alcohol are counted on fingers: the Psychiatric Hospital of Athens, respectively in Thessaloniki, the Psychiatric Clinic of the University of Athens, regional hospitals in Patras, Larissa, Heraklion and Yannina, with the state responsibility for developing programs of psychological assistance, respectively, and social reintegration and support. All this has been transposed and implemented through various NGOs. Indeed, the reference to the reduction of harmful alcohol consumption is also hypocritical, since the policy of support for business groups gives rise to and reproduces social and economic problems, which, of course, contribute to alcoholism. Our concept of dealing with the phenomenon is the essential prevention of alcohol use at all levels, from treatment - accompanied by psychological support and social reintegration - to support measures for work, education, etc. Secondly, the measures concerning secondary prevention, as mentioned in the bill, pre-symptoms and pre-natal and perinatal control, clearly and clearly must be in place. But it is worth wondering when the policy implemented over time in the health sector has led to deforestation of public units, resulting in massive preventive examinations that are necessary for pre-symptoms and for perinatal control cannot be carried out in the public sector. The bill nowhere provides for the development of such services or staffing of those with the necessary staff. And this will lead to the maintenance of the already existing phenomenon, those concerned end up in the private sector, paying for the necessary examinations. This is the reality, for example, of a pregnant woman who needs to be ultrasounded within specific inappropriate dates and does not find a public appointment, only after many months. Does this not happen to patients who, although they have an EPOS reference for examinations, when they arrive at the private diagnostic centres, are blackmailed that there are no appointments for their insurance fund, so they are forced to pay for the examination in order to be made in good time? Thirdly, with regard to tertiary prevention, psychosocial inclusion and rehabilitation programmes are also worthy of wonder why mental health issues are not included in primary and secondary prevention programmes, without, of course, ensuring that they are also implemented. With regard to the occupational integration of sufferers with serious psychosocial problems, we believe that it should be part of the overall mental health policy and in no way a measure alone can help to restore these people and their social integration. Their work rehabilitation must be part of a therapeutic plan and this requires their education, so that mentally suffering from degenerative skills due to the disease. Specially protected laboratories, special working conditions with reduced working hours, full-time insurance and others, which are not provided for anywhere, are required. Without an organised social rehabilitation plan that runs on an organised network with mental health centers, day centres, housing structures and special psychiatric hospitals, mentally ills are effectively abandoned in the hands of NGOs, in work of the KOSCEPE type, with limited responsibility social cooperatives, which are fatally operating in terms of sustainability and competitiveness and do not provide the security required for patients with serious psychosocial problems. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speech time of the F Vice-President of the Parliament is ringing.]] Give me some time, Mr President. Because without the comprehensive care for their work integration and by exposing these people to the labour jungle of the capitalist economy, all that could happen is to make their health condition worse. In conclusion and on the basis of the above, the bill is very specific in its direction and policies: Restriction to the minimum of public expenditure, to the maintenance of the minimum to non-existent public infrastructure, to increase individual responsibility - in fact, this is about depositing more than the individual responsibility of the people for prevention and public health - and for coercive payments in private entrepreneurial activity, undermining even more the uniform nature of infrastructures and services with all kinds of public, private and charitable infrastructure, of which the people's families should look to buy services, either directly from their pockets or indirectly through the insurance funds. All of this is not going to improve, but will lead to an even greater dimension between the current potential of science, technology, skilled staff and their use for the benefit of people's needs. In view of the above, Mr President, we are voting against the bill in principle. And please give me a minute, because there have been reports from the other previous rapporteurs and special speakers, to say the following. The Communist Party at the beginning of the day, with the emergence of the coronary epidemic, was responsible for monitoring the issue, the evolution of the epidemic, and this attitude, of course, has no direction to silence the enormous problems of public health and public health. And precisely in these circumstances of the public health system, the huge shortages of personnel, the shortages of equipment and materials, the duplicate to unprecedented primary health care that results from time-to-day government cuts by all governments are blocking the effectiveness of any state planning. In our opinion - and we have also submitted to the Minister for Priority as well - there are specific immediate measures to be implemented by short procedures. Firstly, the immediate recruitment of permanent staff of all branches and specialities to fully serve all health centres, hospitals, laboratories, the EAW, to open up all ICU beds - the 50, which you have been discussing so many years - to open up inactive health structures. Secondly, the permanentisation of all ancillary staff, certain time-limits, etc. In this context, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, it is necessary to examine whether the measures taken by the Member States are compatible with the internal market and whether they are compatible with the internal market and not with the internal market. To be hired immediately now. Thirdly, ensuring the supply of medicinal products, animal health material, sanitary items of all public health establishments. Fourthly, all primary health care units should work on a 24-hour basis. Fifth, precautions - masks, antiseptics, etc. - to make available to the public free of charge, particularly in all areas of co-existence, of course, with a view to combating grievance. Sixth, ensuring health surveillance by means of sanitary measures, nutritional measures in pre-school establishments, nursery and childcare stations, schools, schools, military units, refugee structures. Seventh, to take all necessary health and safety measures at work with occupational doctors, safety technicians, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u16	You're not going to tell the whole program now, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u17	I'm closing, Mr. President. Eighth, additional leave to staff with full pay and insurance in order to respond to any problems which may arise in their families. In conclusion, these measures are, in our view, a priority and without any expectation and, of course, compromises, they need to be promoted and implemented immediately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u18	We proceed with our colleague, Maria Athanasios, from the Greek Solution. And until my colleague comes to Stepma, I can tell you that it's good for us not to be self-sufficient all the time. Because in public health matters, I would like to remind you that from the Olympic Games and then our country, not because it was lucky, but when epidemics of this type emerged - less serious, more serious - it has fully dealt with, regardless of who was in the government, because it was pressing on a project that had a basis with perhaps some shortcomings that have been filled. We are one of the best countries not in Europe, but in the world in terms of response and response. That's no accident. All the colleagues who passed through the Ministry of Health since 2004 have put their own seal and have managed to get this result. To say criticism, to make the supplements, but to say good for our country, regardless of the party that is in the government. This also gives us a sense of security to our fellow citizens, who are not the most disciplined here, among us, in the instructions they receive from the Minister of Health. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I shall also use the time of my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u20	You don't have to. You will also have the relative tolerance of the three minutes I gave the other speakers. So, your dentistry will have it all, if you need it, in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before I refer to the issues of this bill which is to be voted on, I would like to refer to the issues of the topical and hybrid war in Turkey against our country, which is under way and which will continue. For months now, as a Greek Solution, we have been calling on the government to consider its responsibilities and to shield our borders from the hordes of illegal immigrants, who, headed by Turkey, by private traffickers and also self-defence, have attempted to violate our borders on land and sea in order to enter our country. We have warned you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you must change policy, leave the policy of the open borders of the previous government that destroys us and, finally, protect the Greek people and the Greek society from this absurd and paradoxical tolerance, but also synergy against the interests of our nation. We invited you to strengthen and shield our borders. We were calling on you to close the border. We invited you to put them on uninhabited islands. We invited you to attempt in the Aegean Sea, to repulse the flows and to prevent them. We were calling on you to close the NGOs. We invited you to stop giving incentives and benefits to all these illegal immigrants who came to receive more money from the Greeks and who are better treated than us. And a lot more, but you were mocking us back then. It has taken months, dozens of foreigners from Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iraq, Afghanistan, Somalia, Morocco and I do not know where else to come from and to find yourselves because of international circumstances facing an uncovered, massive and coordinated attempt to invade and invade national sovereignty in order to react vigorously and defend the Patriarchal Territories by sending Police and Army against invaders and not against the Greeks, as you have been unprecedentedly doing in our Chios. But it wasn't you, as it turns out, who did it. The Greek people, who reacted against your attack and who are finally waiting to feel alive and proud of their lives, after years of humiliation, humiliation, humiliation, from your own policies, which you have provoked and continue to do with taxation, confiscation of property and the disappearance of the first home. What did you do, after all? You have closed the borders, as we have told you, and you have begun the distaste and prevented the sea, as we have told you to do, and you are preparing to cut the benefits to those who have received asylum, as you have been unreasonably doing so to date - and we have said so - and you are thinking - and the inhabited islands, as we have told you. Well, we're also telling you this and do it, so we can be ahead of the developments this time and not behind them. The fence in Evros must be concrete. Confiscate cell phones and other objects the illegal intruders have on them. No contact with anyone. They're under arrest, both the ex-boyfriends and the next ones. Narcoticize Evros, and nobody dares to enter. Check all the Turkish trucks that pass through Greece on the road to Europe and if they do not like the delay, let them go from Bulgaria, who did not send them a poacher. Close the NGOs. Anyway, there's a lot more we can tell you and we'll do it. However, today's bill is about preventing and promoting the good health of the citizens, and I hope you are thinking primarily of Greeks and not of those who are looking for the challenging. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us is about to lay the foundations for a lasting policy on public health. In order for this project to succeed, however, it should be aimed both at the individual issues relating to the world and the strategy on the part of the state and the state to be realistic and honest, but also at the protection of citizens from harmful practices. In Article 1, among other things, you refer to behaviours that harm the health of the population, and I wonder what you intend to do with banking practice, the tax-paying state for the first place, which you are about to take out on the hammer. Because these are the issues that harm health and not the cocktail alone. You are referring to movements of large sections of the population. In other words, legislate to protect ourselves from diseases that miles of illegal immigrants bring with them. Speaking of diseases and illegal immigrants, how funny and provocative is the new argument against our religion and our culture? Everyone discusses and analyses how dangerous the Divine Society is and especially colleagues in the medical area, but no one wonders what risk arises from illegal immigrants entering Greece who have not been checked or controlled or even subjected to basic medical examinations. In Article 2, for the principles of the national public health strategy, it is very important to finally implement the institution of the family doctor, which can decongested secondary health and, at the same time, support so-called informal caregivers of people with chronic illness or disability. Thus, it will contribute to the balance and functionality of a large part of the Greek population. These people are usually members of their families who are being burdened with so financially, but much more mentally than the affection they are asked to give to their people. Diseases, such as dementia, Parkinson, autism and unfortunately, so many other degenerative diseases are minefields and cumbersome bombs for both public health and society's normality. In Article 3 and in paragraph c, in the action plan on public health, a number of diseases and diseases are presented in the national plan. However, we believe that especially cancer, but also degenerative diseases, as I have said, should have one of their own, more personalised design in the effort to protect and prevent public health. After all, very recently by the European Commission and at the level of the European Health Commissioner of Mrs Kyriakidou, a multi-annual programme has been launched to deal effectively with cancer and its consequences. It is an opportunity, therefore, for the fight against cancer to be a united energy, in order to be an autonomous and, in any case, a special, upgraded and first line of action plan to prevent and tackle it, but also for the subsequent course of sufferers and their families. The same should apply, of course, to dementia and degenerative diseases that are multiplying as incidents every day, as if they were contagious viral-form disease, something less than the coronary, but without healing and with certain death. In Article 4 and in relation to primary, secondary and tertiary prevention, it is mentioned in detail the contents that each of the stages includes. However, we must bear in mind, above all, the reduction of antimicrobial resistance, since the situation in Greece is particularly worrying and compared to other states. There is also an indicative reference to the first paragraph, concerning teratogenic prevention, that there will be physical therapy programmes and assistance to patients suffering from life-threatening diseases. Programmes, however, should be developed, but much more structures that support either periodically or permanently people with movement problems in the context of their rehabilitation and permanent hospitality for those patients suffering from degenerative or non-degenerative diseases. The lack of quality in the daily lives of these people has been proven and proved every day to lead to relapse and tends to threaten their lives even if it is not supported beyond other medical and paramedical actions and spatial planning, which also influences psychologically. Minister, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we are talking about there are only three private hospitality structures of chronic sufferers with support and partnership with ECOPY, two in Athens and one in Thessaloniki, and, despite the partnership, there are additionally EUR 700 to EUR 1,000 per month in order to ensure a minimum level of decent living for the sufferers. You understand the burden of these families. We're not talking about public structures. They simply don't exist, as they should, at all levels. As far as food is concerned, the validity of healthy food and organic food should be strengthened. The relevant ministries should ensure in every way that the species produced with the indication 'biological' are, indeed, biological. There are whole folk organic products. Who checks whether products on the bench on that popular day are organic? There are shelves of standard organic products in a supermarket that place products with misleading indications regarding their manufacture. Of course, Mediterranean food should be promoted through various actions in schools, with advertising campaigns in the media, but also at workplaces, in cooperation with professional associations. I am thinking in particular of places where stress and specific working conditions give rise to additional nutritional and specific living needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of healthy food and obesity in Greece is not a problem such as that faced by Western societies. Today the problem in our country, and especially in the last decade, is primarily economic. In the ten years of the crisis in Greece, economic tolerance led the Greeks to the consumption of food of cheap, low-quality and dubious origin, as well as consumption of carbohydrates, fatty foods etc. Do not forget that there are currently in Athens, but also throughout Greece, thousands of ovens and bakeries that were gigantic in the crisis, since the world, in order to get something to eat and a coffee to drink, resorted to what the logic told him to be cheaper in the oven. And what do these bread chains sell, most of them? Frozen yeasts and bivalve pastry, cheese, ice cream, etc. And children to feed on parents who are unemployed, what are they eating? Cheap snacks, full of sugar and salt, full of calories and saturated fat. However, the crisis brought suffering and diseases and divorces and alienation, crushed people and troubled souls, who are struggling to get through, alone or with company. There is, above all, today, the cause of the obesity of Greece, and of the other diseases that fall, such as heart disease, and even cancer, to very poor nutrition due to poverty. Also with regard to the physical exercise of the population, this is a presumption that both citizens and the state should be recommended and pursued. Programmes should be developed seriously, with objectives, in order to enable citizens to become active. Something similar to the "Sports and Women" programmes, as well as others, had been done in the past. But soon they have become day - care programmes and have come to an end. As far as alcohol consumption is concerned, it goes without saying that the population and especially our young people should be informed of the harmful effects of alcohol consumption. Do you think we don't know enough today, or do you think that their families are in harmony and can explain them as they should? Huge are the actual percentages of children in need of psychological support and as a reaction or as a way out they consume drinks. It is also prone to smoking and drugs. The disposal of alcohol products to minors should bring serious criminal and administrative penalties and heavy fines. If someone who sells alcohol to minors is in danger of imprisonment, closure of their shop and thousands of euros fine, nobody will sell to any minors any drinks. These are measures that you can take now, gentlemen of the government, and then let us wait for the results of the education, which on purpose takes time to bring about results. However, the issue of alcohol also concerns adults, who know well what alcohol abuse is causing both in the future and directly. You see and hear that drunk drivers drag our fellow citizens - young, grandmothers, young children - and lead them to death without even realizing it, in their statement. And it's a social phenomenon, not a social issue. The Greeks in the years of the stress crisis and the sadness of social and selective when they only became when. And, of course, because problems are not perfect and are constantly growing, they drink more and more. For economic and crisis reasons, too, shopkeepers serve false drinks. But also for their homes, when they buy many times, they choose low-quality and dubious-quality alcohol products again for economic reasons. The same goes for smoking. Is there anyone who doesn't know what a smoke point is? The problems, however, are a lot of stressful, and most of the smokers - and I refer to the already smokers - are smoking more than before. But there are also our fellow citizens who started it while they had cut it down because of the psychological weight they have borne over the years. Too many of them, having no money, buying cigarettes from popular and pedestrian benches, and you know what cigarettes these are. So what are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? For the national vaccination programme - I said it to the committee responsible, I repeat in plenary - there must be a national vaccination register, which will be updated immediately and universally both for those who are vaccinated and for those who need vaccination. It is an important part of health prevention. In Article 5 on public health structures and bodies, we consider that important bodies representing large sections of the population should be involved, such as the Federation against Cancer, as well as bodies related to degenerative diseases and having services. Paragraph 8 of this Article does not apply to any example given to which bodies and to what types of services this draft law refers to. Article 7 is relevant to the establishment of a social capital mobilisation section in the Directorate-General for Public Health and Quality of Life. We do not understand why you are not only recognising non-governmental structures and organisations in the field of public health, but you are calling on them to participate in providing and promoting it. You are recommending a register of these Volunteers, as you call them, organisations, which are in fact invited to participate in national public health policy. But can you thus unequivocally initiate the provision of public health-related actions and benefits to supposedly non-profit organizations? And how do all these wells survive and where are they financed and, in addition, where will they be financed? And how many years of operation should they have at least before accession so that they are entitled to be registered in the national register and to take over projects? Such implementation shall be the duty of the State, the representatives of which shall be chosen on the basis of specific procedures and shall be accountable as foreseen. Private public information groups on matters directly or indirectly related to public health should, of course, be warmly accepted, but should serve general good, in accordance with national design and, of course, without promoting products or labelling services. Public health actions should not be a field of advertisers. Regarding the Committee on Public Health Experts, we believe that this should in any case adopt and supervise all the actions that are being developed in this respect and any of them within the national strategic public health framework. In this committee we believe that representatives of organisations against cancer and degenerative diseases should be members of the Committee of Experts. It is about too many people and is combined with too many public health manifestations. In Article 11, for the organisation and functioning of the Committee of Public Health Experts, an audit mechanism should also be developed in order to be able to give a positive or negative opinion on the implementation of the national public health plan and, in particular, on the guidelines proposed and accepted for implementation. Of course, there is supposed to be a model of measuring the results of the actions decided and implemented. In Article 13 and on coordination and cross-sectoral cooperation for public health, in addition to monitoring the national plan, each involved body should be able to regularly bring about a matter of its competence, which, in its assessment, may produce a matter of public health directly or in the future. Finally, in Article 15, on the exchange of information on the services involved, we believe that the creation of a national database which is constantly fuelled by bureaucracy and competence issues, on the one hand, is downgrading and achieves the production of projects. In any case and until then, the Ministry of Health should only submit requests to the competent authorities for information and explanations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the project is both ambitious and nice and necessary. No one is spared in the battle that starts and in the challenges that have come, come and come. As in the issues of immigration and the protection of our borders, you are now copying to succeed. We urge you to also copy this bill in order to prevent the problem before it is created and threatens us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This bill signes the twelve Ministers and each of them is involved in the protection and prevention of public health, but like the entire government and the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Athanasios, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u23	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why, Mr Ministers of the Greek Government, protect the Greeks from the consequences of the memoranda, from the banks, from illegal immigrants, from unemployment and labour exploitation, from inactivity, frustration, despair, despair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u24	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u25	It's a national check. We say 'yes' in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u26	Until Mr Gregoriadis comes to Stepma, Minister, I would like to make a proposal. You know what I'm going to say because then you were, too, along with me in the municipality. Because I had experience of bird disease management when I became mayor in Athens, I thought Athens and, more generally, Attica, as, of course, large other cities, have hundreds of thousands of immigrants legal or under legalisation and illegality. So when public health comes up, these people don't know how to read Greek, most people don't speak English well, so they don't understand what they're listening to on television, plus that the doctors we're in this room, whether we've been by the Ministry or not, we know that without it, we've had outbreaks of another type of epidemic. So as mayor, I made the foreign language '9.84', which was not a complete programme. He had a news report in ten different languages - the last one was Chinese - and when such issues came up there were information reports in their own language, but when they didn't come, you encourage, for example, the immigrant children about where to get them to be vaccinated. This has provided enormous service to the public health of Attica. It is unfortunate that my successor abolished him as '9.84'. So I appreciate, Minister, that you should take the Mayor of Athens. I am not saying that the reopening of the foreignlanguage '9.84' - perhaps the municipality's finances - should not be allowed to do so, but for the next six months I think it would offer a maximum service. Where do they hear and where do they know how to wash their hands? Where do they hear and where do they know how to put an antiseptic? And yet these people are next to us, but they're not to blame. To take measures of personal protection, but in our neighborhood some people don't take them because they don't know it, you realize that we are sometimes bailing in the air. Mr. Gregoryde, thank you for having troubled you. I think, Minister, it is worth having this conversation with Mr Bakoyannis. Here, Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor for the relative tolerance, and you too, if you do not reach 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I also wholeheartedly congratulate you on the sensitivity you have shown in such matters always. Be well! Ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Health entitled 'Prevention, protection and promotion of health - Development of public health services', unfortunately, in the middle of a very difficult situation which affects and threatens public health worldwide. Even worse this bill acquires an even greater importance because of its new data and timeliness. I am talking about topicality because, as it seems to be imperative that all services, without exception, should be put on a new basis, not only to be shielded against the threat of the epidemic but, of course, also to maintain a permanent level of proper functioning of the structures and health benefits in the country as a whole. Please allow me here to say a few words about the coronary epidemic. It is known that in the areas of China, which provided adequate public access to adequate care services, mortality - that is, deaths - were from 0% to 0.3%, i.e. almost non-existent, whereas in areas where for various reasons - and mainly due to the size of China - there was no such sufficient capacity, mortality was more than 3% to 5%. The source, for the data I quote, is the magazine ‘LANCET’ dated 25-2-2020. Unfortunately in Greece the primary health care is unexistent until now and of course the private sector, which appears by magic when there is profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u28	Hello! Say that again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u29	But that's the way it is! In the present case, it appears that, at least for the private sector in this sector at the moment, there is no profit, so it is missing. In such an epidemic that the main serious complication is pneumonia - and respiratory insufficiency - the survival of each disease depends on the existence of intensive care units and support for its respiratory system. Unfortunately, both the governments of the last decade and the present Government of New Democracy have taken care of and are not having intensive treatment units, the intensive treatment units that are needed even under normal conditions. I am sorry, but it is really ridiculous that the New Democracy Government claims that the country is shielded, when neither the elementary, i.e. the adequacy of beds in intensive care units, the staffing of emergency departments, strong and fully developed public primary health care, the full supply of hospitals and health centres by simple means of care. It is not guaranteed - let me say - nor the fundamental protection of doctors and nurses who are the first point of contact of the health system with the virus. The authorities of Greece - unfortunately over time - have failed to apply strict observance of the precautionary directives. In this case they fail, I think, to observe the strong precautionary rules, because the authorities of Greece fear not to lose support from other pillars of the state system, such as our Church, for example. The central bodies of the system - I stress to you - have shown characteristic apathy and analgesia in the permanent calls of doctors of the National Health System on this issue. Unfortunately, once again, this bill makes no mention of the tragic situation in which public hospitals throughout Greece are found both in terms of staffing with medical, nursing and administrative staff as well as in terms of shortages in basic material consumables and specialized machinery. The New Democracy Government has made clear its intentions from the outset, which we believe will lead to a complete decomposition of public health. The first action of our Government was the announcement through the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association, which is to some extent its organ, of the intention to abolish TOMY, local health units, in general and indefinitely discussing the creation of a system of free choice of doctors. Its second action was the final postponement and suspension of the appointment of more than two hundred doctors literally in "only five", when they even expected their appointment to be published. The creation of PPPs, public-private partnerships, hospitals and the new model in newly established hospitals, which will now be - as you all know - private-law legal persons. In addition, the Minister announced on 22 October 2019 the strengthening of the budget of private primary health care providers, but without explaining exactly who he means. Private doctors or private clinics? He'll tell us, here he is. Of course it is important to recall that the 2020 budget provides for an even greater reduction in expenditure on our health. Mera25 in its review of the 2020 budget said attributes: "The curse of health expenditure continues, with more funding of public hospitals and primary health care, following the straying of policies chosen over the last few years. The 2020 budget of the Ministry of Finance further reduces the financing of these hospitals by 37 million compared to 2019, a year - I recall - in which this funding had already been reduced by 65 million compared to 2018. For primary health care, the reduction is 4-4.5 million, while the funding to the EEAS remains stable compared to 2019. However, the Hypertension Fund will be financed with an additional EUR 8-8.5 million in 2020, resulting from increased insurance contributions, with which the public of course have been charged." It is, therefore, a question of the least acidification of spending - I mean, in this bill, of public health, when it is well known that the New Democracy programme says there is a reduction in health expenditure and in line with the budget. Furthermore, it is only twice in the whole draft law - no mention, apart from the two things I have said, of primary health care, of the structures of primary health care which can benefit and facilitate the quality of health services for all people who need them more directly and more efficiently. In fact, the draft law, proposed by the New Democracy Government, abolishes primary health care structures by moving them into local government agencies. We have said that this bill seems to be, unfortunately, the tombstone of public health services, as it recommends the definitive fragmentation of health by converting, in the collective subconscious, our state from a provider who has so far been a guarantee of the health of the general population into a health adviser. In order not to misunderstand ourselves, we are clearly in favour of prevention, but also clearly and not in the way New Democracy uses it, namely, to transform the state from a provider to a health adviser. Good idea, we are deliberately afraid - placed on a wrong basis and also intentionally wrong to target and implement it. The three prevention stages, as described in this bill, are primary, secondary and tertiary prevention. The first relates to a series of actions to inform and raise awareness among citizens, the second to pre-symptoms and pre-natal controls and the third to the functionality of sufferers, mainly concerning people with motor problems and mental patients. Especially for the latter, Minister - we must stress this - expenditure on mental health has been dramatically reduced. Mental health is not luxury, it is very important, it can also be the cornerstone of the overall health of a population. In Articles 3 and 4, reference is made to the National Action Plan for Public Health and the Health Risk Prevention Programme ‘DOXIDIS’. The National Action Plan for Public Health will be five years - it is referred to in Article 3 - while Article 4 specialises actions, which are pre-formative - in our opinion - in the sense of the State always as a health adviser, which simply trains and informs citizens, while at the same time eradicates health as a right, turning it into a privilege that is mediated by money and the free market, while those who are serious, such as pre-scientific and pre-natal checks, on the one hand, should not under any circumstances be presented here as something innovative and new - as they are a constitutionally guaranteed obligation of the State - on the other hand, it is apparent that private sector is being introduced into compulsory diagnostic tests. In Article 3(1), reference is made to the creation of PPPs, public-private partnerships and public-private partnerships aimed at providing services and carrying out projects. Here and here - I am sorry to say - the landscape is rather foggy, as there is no clear and clear description of how it is set up and running. On the other hand, all these committees that are to be set up, which seem to have a significant role to play in decision-making and in the management of our health institutions and structures, what exactly will they have and above all who will appoint them? However, the ambiguities are enough in this draft law and everything seems to be referred to the ultimate future. A characteristic example is that the phrases'ministerial decision' and 'joint ministerial decision' are written in this draft law at least fourteen times. In the vague context, therefore, which describes the bodies which are to implement these actions, legal persons of a non-profit-making nature are included, i.e. those known as NGOs. That is, of course, what we think, rightly, is a serious concern, Minister, that we may be facing the creation of a new, expanded CSR, which will manage huge amounts of our public national fund and the European Fund, in ways that are opaque and without the required social benefit and efficiency. In Article 5, and finally in Article 16, there is talk of the organisational structure of public health, of the structures and instruments which will make it up. Within this we see the continuation of government policy, as bodies such as EGE or the new NEI are bodies of public health, organisations which remind us that the Government of New Democracy has speeded up making legal persons of private law by a legal person governed by public law in the case of the EGE or on the other hand fully circumventing their administration - see KEI - which, from horizontal democratic administration, finally fell into a vertical administrative structure, which is directly subject to the Minister, namely, essentially directly to the Prime Minister. How else could one describe these arrangements rather than as an open road to privatisation? Finally, Article 10 establishes a Committee of Public Health Experts. The real aim of this committee is very concerned that it will be to justify government policies with a technocratic scientific cloak. This is also apparent from the fact that there is not one, for example, a trade union representative, such as the U.S.S.A., with the only independent representation of the state being a 'patient union' - you hear - a union, which was founded in June 2019 and - if we are honest - more than a consumer union, rather than a trade union force claiming positive benefits for AMEOs. Suffice one to tour the forum from which the union emerged - to stress here that this association has not yet even a website - to understand for the sole independent representative in the IGC - and after tour, if he even looks at the bodies under the auspices and sponsorships under which this forum is being conducted - and to draw his reasonable conclusions. All these entities are pharmaceutical companies, medical data management companies, medical information management companies, etc. Let me point out - and this, Minister, is a bit of a scream - that it is not your fault, of course, but have you chosen this union - that it is within them and who else? ‘NOVARTIS’. For us, in Mera25, the draft health law under discussion is actually blocking the concept and essence of public health. The legislation you are proposing does not in any way favour the development of existing public health structures. On the contrary, in our view, their dissolution is being promoted. The right of all to public health seems here to be traded and inclined towards privatization, which automatically makes access to public and free health a privilege to the wealthy members of the Greek society. I am very sorry to say that, unfortunately, once again, we are in front of a class bill based on neoliberal theories and trade practices. Mera25 proposes and calls for a new care model, which will ensure a good level of health for the population, covering the needs of patients and their families. This can be achieved through the development of a new local, multidisciplinary and expanded form of primary health care, prevention, health education, health promotion, pre-symptoms control, strengthening mental health structures and home care and hospitality, as well as administrative finally restructuring. It should also be noted that the term 'population' in the first articles of the bill is used elsewhere. It is absolutely necessary for us to clarify where refugees and immigrants are integrated and those who do not have the Greek citizenship, the tourists and all of them. I will mention the obvious: every man, a Greek citizen, a visitor, a refugee and an immigrant should have the right and free access to public health and care services. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Finally, as we are of course, Mr President, in favour of prevention, which is only one pillar, while the second pillar is the services provided, which we believe in the present draft law and, in particular, because of the budget and the enormous mammoths, the primary surpluses that we need to achieve, are further degraded, we are voting 'in the first place'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u31	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u32	I shall put forward some legislative improvements, Mr President, which relate simply to verbal and verbal corrections.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u33	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to the rapporteurs. The first speaker is Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, public health prevention has a central place in our government's programme, prevention that prevents or reduces the chances of a disease occurring and has to do both with medical operations, such as vaccinations, as well as changing habits and lifestyles, prevention that detects a disease in good time and increases the chances of being dealt with successfully, but also with prevention that restores the damage or the relapse of a condition that has already been diagnosed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These three dimensions, the three levels of prevention, are important for two main reasons: because they improve the quality of life, that is to say, the possibility of living not only for many years, but most of them being without serious health issues and because, by preventing a disease, it discharges the part of hospital care, which can make available and manage more efficiently the professionals and infrastructures at its disposal. The rapporteur and the other New Democracy colleagues, who have been ahead of us, have fully developed the contents of the bill, which includes prevention, in what ways, in which structures will public health policies be planned and implemented with an emphasis on prevention. I think it is worth mentioning three of the elements that characterise the philosophy of the legislation. One is that planning for public health ceases to be just an exercise on paper, a wishing list. All plans, from the five-year national public health to the individual plans of the National Prevention Programme, will have specific objectives, which can be measured in a concrete way, have specific costs and will have been decided before this is covered. The second element is that the public health system has a clear structure, from the top to the bottom and from the centre to the region, from the Ministry and the General Secretariat of Public Health to the regions and municipalities. This helps coordinate, helps supervise, favours the implementation of nationally planned actions across the territory, favours activities that can be done locally based on the epidemiological, demographic and other data of residents. A link to this structure is the Public Health Directorate set up in each health region, which can build local networks connected and take joint initiatives with the Public Health Directorates of regional units and municipalities. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an innovation which deserves attention, because it is the first step towards the effective decentralisation of the public health system, a step in which the central government plays a key role in the region, a step that must have the ultimate aim of trusting self-government more in the implementation of prevention programmes and in the responsibility of primary health care. So we have a design that can be implemented, we have structures and instruments that carry and implement the design vertically, from top to bottom, but also horizontally between different ministries and sectors of government policy. We also have a third element of interest, the involvement of non-profit organisations in public health actions on specific criteria, with the register of voluntary organisations, which will ensure that their contribution is essential, that they can actually carry out actions provided for in the national plan. And on the part of public health we see civil society organisations as stable partners and not as opportunistic subcontractors. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are voting on today is the foundation on which we support our health education and prevention policies, free preventive tests for all Greeks, prevention and treatment of basic diseases - such as neoplastic diseases, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes mellitus, dementia, strokes - healthy nutrition for the prevention and treatment of childhood and adolescent obesity, care for the elderly, so that they are well or better old. I would therefore recommend that colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left do not rush, because they will be here to see all this progress, because the right foundations have been laid. It is time to see public health prevention and information not as a game of political impression but as an investment in the well-being of today and next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr. Konstantinos Markos is now called to Stepma by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to make a few things clear, mainly for the listeners from the Chamber, but also for the general listeners, to clarify what we are talking about. The mission of public health is to protect, preserve and promote the health of the population, prevent diseases, disability and premature death, restore health when damaged and maximise the quality of life when health cannot be restored. Public health requires collective action by society and collaborative interdisciplinary work involving all health professionals and engineers, environmental scientists, health instructors, administrative and other specialised professionals, technical staff, effective cooperation. The first main one - and I want to make that clear at the moment - scientifically differentiation of public health from classical clinical medicine is that, unlike that, which focuses on the individual, public health by definition is researching, planning and intervening at the level of the population. The second differentiation is that while clinical medicine focuses on the diagnosis and treatment of disease, public health focuses on political and social health economists and aims at the well-being of society through which individual health is improved. Thus, in addition to the risk factors associated with individual habits and behaviours or even randomities, for which, of course, organised primary and secondary prevention programmes are needed, there are socio-economic assessors who also undermine public health. The answer from a public health perspective is that there must be structured cross-sectoral policies and radical social interventions implemented in connection with public primary health care structures, which is obviously not a priority for the current government. Its political priority is public-private partnerships and the opening to the private market of diagnostic examinations, as is clearly apparent from this draft law. Prevention is not introduced as meaning and content for the first time into the health system. The reform of SYRIZA in primary health care, the institution of the family doctor, the multidisciplinary health teams and TOMY for the first time, emphasis was placed on disease prevention and not only on monitoring and treating patients, while the targeting of primary health care structures integrated community-wide information, vaccination and health promotion measures and vulnerable population groups. This political approach was reflected in the National Strategic Plan for Public Health prepared by the SYRIZA Government with the help of the scientific community, the technical support of the World Health Organisation and the approval of the National Public Health Council, which you are today unnecessarily abolishing it, as well as in the individual action plans for hepatitis C, HIV infection, microbial resistance and alcohol. The crucial problem with the general control of the population is not how it is organized, but how one guarantees his universality with access to all those who belong to sensitive and vulnerable groups, not only those who are sensitive, but also, above all, how the monitoring and follow-up of care is ensured. In this bill it is obvious to underestimate new emerging threats to public health, such as the environmental-climate crisis and the refugee crisis, as well as the care for vulnerable and vulnerable groups, such as Roma, toxic-dependent, prisoners, workers or sex workers. In particular for the health management of refugees and asylum seekers there is a need for a rapid replacement of the problems created by the abolition of the AMCA. Another comment is that this bill gives rise to concentration and a tendency to suffocate governmental control of the relevant bodies, such as the Committee of Public Health Experts set up mainly with the Minister's own choices - I would say the Minister in question - by abolishing the National Public Health Council which was the executive mechanism of the Ministry of Health with the representation of all the bodies and services. At the same time, the role of the EGE and the new School of Public Health of the University of West Attica, which have huge know-how on the design, organisation and especially the implementation of health policies, is institutionalised. In fact, the establishment of the committee leads to the abolition of existing national committees, for example, of vaccinations, by devaluing the work and the unselfish offering of qualified scientists operating over time and regardless of governments and Ministers as state advisers on critical public health issues. Finally, Mr Ministers, as you know at the Central Board of Health for three years we have moved forward and completed the reorganisation and updating of health skills with a modern framework of education and competence. Within this reorganisation - and Mr. Undersecretary, it is seven months now in your office for thirty-eight decisions on the specialities of medicine they are waiting for - it is also the introduction of the virtually new specialty in public health and social medicine, which awaits your signature and which is absent from this bill as materially competent. Finally, the National Health Action Plan very much underestimates the role of cancer responsible for 20% of the overall load of illness. It's only someplace fragmented, there's cancer missing. Let us not expect something essential from the Public Health Legislation. A lot of communication, a lot of masturbations and a little substance. In any case, we will take the matter seriously and not the attitude taken by the New Democracy to the previous government. Features I will tell you that around these times Kyriakos Mitsotakis from this one Step, in the relevant debate on the Republic of Northern Macedonia, said in this connection: One more minute, Mr President. "Mrs. and honourable Members, let me refer to a subject of topical and urgent concern to the Greek society. Forty fellow citizens have lost their lives from seasonal flu..."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u37	Thirty-nine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u38	Was she thirty-nine? Until now about ninety are the ones who have lost their lives from seasonal flu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u39	Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u40	We show the responsibility we need, and we don't go out...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u41	Not even SKAY or SKAY...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u42	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u43	So I would like to say this: it is good that some recruitment has been announced by the government immediately. Our rapporteur, Mr Xanthos, mentioned how many people they need. Watch out now, because we have to be reasonable, keep our minds. What does that mean? This means that these recruitments are necessary for the National Health System and the Government so far, before the huge threat occurred, held them in drawers. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u44	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u45	You know what, Minister? When the good runs through this problem, nothing will be the same in the health landscape and above all there will be much emphasis on the necessity of the public health system and your idea will have collapsed completely. Make sure you adapt to this from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Francis Georgios will now take the floor from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the bill, prevention and public health is extremely topical as the coronary is in our country and only preventive measures can be implemented at the moment, which is, of course, something that everyone must do: the state, the institutions and the citizens. Prevention is of fundamental importance in maintaining and improving the health of the population. It is distinguished in primary, with the aim of preventing the disease - for example vaccinations, healthy lifestyle - in secondary to diagnosis of the disease at an early stage and early therapeutic intervention to prevent its occurrence - for example preventive medical examinations such as the Papanikolaou test in women - tertiary, after the occurrence of the disease, to reduce complications and disability, social reintegration and increase life expectancy, rehabilitation, therapeutic interventions in chronic patients, etc. Prevention and public health are directly related to living and working conditions, climate conditions, the natural and social environment, human habits. In our country, the incomplete prevention culture and the poorening of society mean that the Greeks knock on the doctor's door or at the last moment, after the event, i.e., symptoms, or - worse - when the disease goes on and is irreversible. Modern Greek and modern Greek women have increased body weight, do not follow healthy lifestyles, i.e. nutrition, exercise, avoidance of smoking, alcohol and do not perform regular preventive tests. The socio-economic conditions in recent years have dramatically increased stress and mental illnesses, which are not adequately addressed by health structures. All of these are factors of disease and contribute to premature mortality. The increase in life expectancy and the occurrence of chronic diseases therefore make prevention a priority. The state, unfortunately, has, over time, given greater importance to the treatment of diseases than to prevent them. The resources available for prevention are 1.5%, while for care are 98.5%. According to the Professor of Social and Preventive Medicine in the European Union, Mr.Giannis Tuuda is the country with the least resources for public health and prevention, we are without a university school for public health, without national pre-convention protocols for the diagnosis of diseases, with social security that does not invest in prevention and promotion of health, and with EGE which deals exclusively with infectious diseases, while it has an institutional role broader. Health costs - medical, hospital, medication - cost both the state and households expensive. The limited finances of the State also define the design of health policies and programmes. At the same time, so-called free public health is paid badly by the citizens. A large part of the family budget is spent on regular health expenditure, while the most extraordinary and unforeseen of them are able to blow up a household in the air. It can therefore be easily understood that for both the state and the citizens, the word 'Keep it prevents it or cure it' applies to Hippocrates. This bill looks more like a proclamation of intent and a exercise on paper. It describes the design and actions that, although positive, one wonders about the pragmaticity of their implementation. What prevention and public health do we talk about with fragmented and residual structures of primary health care, with anachronistic nursing institutions such as my prefecture, in the Kilkis Prefecture, without the use of new technologies, with incomplete and tired staff, almost there is no possibility of home care, insufficient treatment for the patient in time, incomplete rehabilitation units, as well as high private health costs? A brave modernisation of the National Health System and an organised primary care network for prevention is needed. At local level municipalities can develop activities and programs to care at home, the elderly, health care. Psychological health and addiction prevention centres on substances, as well as public health advisory stations, are also necessary. The bill does not mention vulnerable and vulnerable groups, such as refugees, immigrants and Roma, with all that that means to public health. The National Board of Public Health is repealed and replaced by the Committee of Public Health Experts without justification. Instead of a model of health involving the citizen, the patient and civil society in administration and decision-making, a comprehensive model is adopted with a Secretary-General who brings together all the responsibilities for prevention and public health. At the same time, important responsibilities and responsibilities are given to voluntary organisations without control. To sum up, I would like to say that there is a need for a systematic and multi-level effort on the part of the state, so that the prevention, promotion and health education can be brought into society. Reconstruction of primary health care and interventions at all levels: education, local government at the workplaces of the health service. The implementation of information and awareness programmes across the population, as well as supportive actions, such as the provision of free preventive examinations and a strong policy not only of prevention, but also of social solidarity and family support, so as to limit, as far as possible, the factors contributing to morbidity. However, what any citizen can do for his health is summarised in the so - called Hebrew philosopher and doctor Maimonides, who lived in the 12th century C.E.: "Live wisely. In a thousand people only one dies of course. The rest will endure because of the irrational way in which they live." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u48	Mrs Sophia Asmakopoulou is called in Step from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, health services and general medical care exist in order to meet the needs of each society. When we talk about our country's health system, we mean at the same time the need for this to constantly develop by adapting to the needs of the citizens. The key point on which a modern national action plan to modernise public health must focus is that of primary prevention. This modernisation is being attempted by the draft law under discussion through the DOXIDE health prevention programme, but at the same time we wonder exactly how the concept of prevention for public health is being promoted, when at this critical time we are going through due to the spread of the coronary, prevention measures are poor and ineffective. The local authorities of the Municipality of Pyrgos had to make complaints about the lack of effective management of the patients and their environment, who are not disciplined in the directives for public prosecutors to be involved, without yet knowing what results they have from new cases of irresponsible behaviour. Do you expect us to mourn the first victims to finally take drastic measures to protect the population of the Greeks? Citizens' information is not thorough, and this is illustrated by the way in which they face even the symptoms of a cold, when they are in public places where a large crowd of people gather. Do we have to get to the tragic point where Italy has come to act immediately and avoid the worst, such as putting Greece as a whole into quarantine? The debate on this bill is more timely than ever. The provision of information on its own is absolutely inadequate as a measure. If citizens are not substantially sensitised and at the same time there are such samples on the part of the disease, then they will be created with certainty to the Greeks panic and insecurity of what is to come. In order to do this, however, people must realize the existence, possible size and importance of the problem, because only when they are equipped individually with the necessary knowledge, will they adopt the right views of experts and will prioritise their value within society as a whole. Then it will be up to the Commission to take the right decisions in order to get the problem as smoothly as possible. The intrinsic weaknesses of the health system are many. That is why we doubt whether the constant and growing needs of Greeks and Greeks are fully and adequately evaluated through this bill. If we take account of the above and of the particularly difficult relationship between our country and the influential illegal immigration influx, then we realise that the situation is marginal. Greece is lacking in many places in a number of services provided to the insured. There must also be provision for practical implementation of each bill that we are discussing within this Assembly. In addition to general objectives, this framework is lacking. In order to promote public health, it is not sufficient for any programming to be carried out, but at the same time, it is also necessary to ensure that it is implemented, namely, that what has been formulated in the draft law is transferred faithfully to practice. So far, this has not been achieved, especially in the past, with similar efforts to the extent that they were present. We therefore also reserve the course of the present that moves in similar logic. How else, when we see daily health services degraded and ill, when public health expenditure is reduced, when the preservation of our fellow citizens' health is constantly questioned and directly at risk? Of course, there can be no improvement in quality without measurement of performance. Health professionals fight to cope with increased needs, while being plagued by tragic staff shortages. We firmly believe that safeguarding the health of the Greeks is not just a humanitarian and social objective. For us in Greek Solution the concept of quality in health services includes the effectiveness, technical excellence, efficiency, as well as accessibility, the treatment of services focused on the patient, while assessing the structures, processes and results of both actions and services. Achieving the highest possible level of health is one of the basic rights of each Greek citizen. This right must neither be degraded nor deprived of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u50	Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head from New Democracy is now called in Step. Then Mrs. Hara Kafantaris is followed by SYRIZA and Mr. Dionyssis acupuncture from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has a twofold objective, on the one hand, to highlight the importance of prevention and, on the other, to improve the promotion and protection of public health. In Greece, when we talk about health, we mean care and much of the health budget goes there. In the rest of the developed world, health means prevention of the healthy population. Unfortunately, we can easily see that we are overinvesting in hospital services. We're focusing on the treatment of the disease, and we're not focusing on prevention. The result is that our country's health system is still completely 'hospital', a practice that has been abandoned in modern countries. The bill we are debating today has been embraced by all scientists regardless of ideology. The reason for this is that, for the first time, a well-structured framework is being drafted for prevention, a prevention that is a function of many different factors relating to modern lifestyles and our attitudes in everyday life, behaviours towards ourselves. In other words, we put in the microscope the behavioural factors, such as smoking, alcohol abuse, malnutrition, lack of exercise, all that has changed our way of life and are key causes of morbidity and early mortality. We are strengthening preventive actions. We seek both to prevent the occurrence of a disease and to be diagnosed at an early stage, so that it becomes completely healable. We are trying to restructure the existing network of public health services and link these services functionally. We are effectively addressing the needs and problems through an effective health system that goes beyond the traditional limits of hygiene and prevention and extends to cross-sectoral interventions. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law reflects the principles from which the public health system should be explicitly regulated. We are establishing a national action plan for public health with a five-year horizon. The most important innovation in this bill is this action plan. We establish a national primary, secondary and tertiary prevention programme binding on health services. It includes actions implemented under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, with measurable targets. It is costly, structured from the outset in a fully transparent way and leads to an increase in public health expenditure on the average of the countries of the European Union. Primary prevention includes the national programme for the promotion of healthy nutrition and physical activity. We incorporate in the primary prevention the national alcohol treatment programme to reduce the risk factors from exposure to it by strengthening the protectionist factors that affect the fight against this disorder. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying in coordination to protect the legitimate good of public health. With the national vaccination programme, we are establishing vaccination programmes for special and vulnerable groups of the population, which will be without any cost to the citizen. In the event of a risk of spreading a contagious disease, we also make it possible to make compulsory vaccination possible, always in order to prevent the spread of the disease which may have serious consequences for public health. With the national programme of systematic prenatal and perinatal medical control, we aim to defend health during the prenatal and perinatal period. I would also like to see, Mr Minister, the prevention and psychiatric diseases in pregnant women, because in recent years there have been more and more incidents of giving up infants to garbage or beaches, as has been the case recently in Patras and elsewhere. Clearly in all these cases there is some background, which may not be entirely evident from someone who is not a specialist. However, it is a problem concerning society, public health and the rights of the child. The epilepsy or perinatal depression in the mother is a fact and a reality that we have to face. There is and no one can question it. Early prevention and diagnosis can and must form part of public health services. It is important to stand by and embrace these mothers, to reduce infant mortality, which is an indicator that has risen from 10% to 40% over the last two years and even in a period of peace. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, we are extending the national preventive pupil control programme so that early diagnosis relates to the whole of rare and serious diseases, so that disease control is carried out and treated, with a view to their complete healing, because prevention is equivalent to healing. We include the national programme of psychosocial inclusion and rehabilitation for people with serious psychosocial problems and the resolution of organisational issues of public health services. That is how we ensure the best possible availability of resources and distribute the actions among the most effective operational bodies. We are developing an electronic basis for disseminating information and health treatment to the population by using social media. Ladies and gentlemen, the health system is now being called upon to face challenges, such as high levels of weight gain and obesity, smoking, increasing stress caused by modern lifestyles, serious health problems, transmitted diseases and the worsening of mental health. Above all, however, it is called upon to face the ignorance of the majority of the population in the face of ever - increasing health risks. With this bill, the Ministry of Health adopts the pre-symptomal control of the Greek population, in an effort based on a phrase said by Hippocrates two and a half thousand years ago: it prevents or cures it. Today's draft law refers to this, but at the same time it is a reserve for the future. It is an effort organised and structured to ensure that there is at last proper prevention, that there is well-structured public health, horizontally across society and free of charge. The purpose of the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis is to provide a high level of health services to citizens, with seriousness and a sense of responsibility. And we're doing it. We see the seriousness with which we are dealing with as a state and as a state known to all of us the most coronary. All of us who serve the science of medicine understand very well how important this bill is. We ensure better quality of life for citizens and save in the medium and short term resources for the health system. I am pleased that, after so many years, a bill comes in which will be a cornerstone for public health, a bill which serves the citizen, the Greek, the man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u52	Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA. The next is Mr. Dionysus acupuncture. Here you go, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think we all agree that public health is a very serious issue. With public health we cannot play, we cannot allow misinformation, conspiracy theories that we have been hearing lately. In such a serious case, we must think that we are a serious European state and that is not the case. Public health, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the treatment of a disease, a disease. Public health is the air we breathe. That is what I shall refer specifically to. This is essentially about air pollution. The European Environment Agency says about the European area that it is estimated around four hundred and twenty-two premature deaths due to air pollution. In 2005, the OECD estimated that in 2060 the costs would be increased to around 2% of European GDP, which is also about the consequences of air pollution. In essence, air pollution is also linked to climate change. Public health, too, is the water we drink, which must have specific quality standards. I am giving an example: is there a limit to drinking water for hexavalent chromium? Also, public health is to take into account the big issue of climate change, global warming, which actually regains and forgotten diseases of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very serious bill in the shadow of a major global problem that tends to become a pandemic. I'm referring to the issue of the coronary. Prevention is a serious factor and is mentioned in the bill. However, the reference to say that it is more - if I may express - customary and not substantial, when primary health care has been significantly reduced since 2010-2015, a serious effort has been made in difficult budgetary conditions in the SYRIZA government to restore it. Prevention was reinforced, health centers were strengthened, a hundred and twenty-seven TOMGs were operating and their contribution, in what the bill says, to prevention, is very important with more than three thousand actions in schools, in daily care centres for the elderly, in CFP, in clubs, etc. In this draft law we are debating today, there are no actions for specific vulnerable groups. I am referring to the Roma, I am referring to refugees. We are all aware of what has happened, as is the repetitions of your government, Minister, and of the issue of the AMCA of refugees and all that. NGOs - non-governmental organisations - this draft law, and it is, of course, for me to say - as if they were also political. Their role is important - especially in refugees, drug addiction, etc. - but basically helpful. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to a big point to which I wish to devote the rest of my time. It is about the issue of the coronary, which is the most up-to-date at the moment. Responding to this needs a readiness, it needs planning, a strengthening of the public health sector, the ESS. Of course I will also refer to my area, where there is a very large hospital, which is also a reference hospital, the Attica Hospital. I'll testify to the last decision of the hospital workers' club. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In their communication, the employees point to the following: There has been no intake of a nurse, administrative, technician, traumat, at the empty organic posts of the reference hospital for the "Attica", which has not left randza, the reference newspaper has not been relieved. Also, there has not been a single extra bed of intensive treatment unit. At this point I will say that, in 2015, four hundred and thirty-eight beds were received and today they were delivered - to the Government of New Democracy - five hundred sixty-eight. They have not opened an additional ITH bed in "Attica", no staff recruitment, supply of additional equipment. Also, ICU beds are not enough for the regular operation of the hospital. Here I shall refer to something else. The Hospital of Logomaton, the well-known "Agia Varvara", then at the government of New Democracy - PASOK, Mr.Georgiadis, has effectively closed it, it can cover essential hospital needs with regard to the coronary, decongested by the Atticon Reference Hospital, because in the government of SYRIZA the urban arbitraritions have been settled, repaired a home of the pathological clinic, and at the moment the hospital is ready to help and contribute in this direction. So you must consider it seriously, gentlemen of the government. I would also stress that this hospital is far from being - something that the World Health Organisation mentions - a hundred and fifty metres from the housing web, which is the case for the Lombard Hospital. Also - I come to the other issue of recruitment - do not take account of the specific situation we face with the epidemic, to say, of the coronary, that there should be non-transparent recruitment, without criteria and insecure working conditions. There is a special platform for recruitment of ancillary and nursing staff. We see at the moment that you're about to fire. In addition, there have been mobilisations for these five and a half thousand by the OAED, young scientists, six hundred in the health sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. Another serious issue is that apart from the five reference hospitals at the moment, all major hospitals in the country must have the relevant test. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the big issue that has been debated lately and, anyway, there is a public debate that has to do with the role of the Church and what needs to be done to address this epidemic. I will not go into what the Orthodox congregations of other states or the papal Church have done. Even Islam has taken some specific measures. I will say, by closing, what the Archbishop of America has said Hopeful, and we must be concerned. So said this religious leader, referring to images, etc. "the same material elements that can carry God’s blessings are also subject to our broken nature of our fallen world. The science and the reason that God gave us requires us to use all available means to protect ourselves, our families and the virus and every disease." Let us worry about those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u54	Mr Dionysios Akuppis from New Democracy is called to Stepma, and Mrs Anastasia Alexopoulos is then called. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution will then speak, Mr. Villardos. Mr. Abby, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr former Minister, I have listened very carefully and really what you said was very important and quite rightly. No one can argue about what you said, with the only difference that I would like to mention my personal experience from the place I come from, Zakynthos, on the issue of the Hospital of Zakynthos, that it is currently working with 40% of the nursing staff from what is planned and 50% of the doctors. At the same time, the intensive care unit is with five beds and the one since 2012 that have been transferred to the new hospital and we had to operate it, has not worked yet. And it is not only that it has not yet worked to provide the services that we need, but we risk returning to the European Union to 36 million because it was an ESDP programme. That's just to see if things got well or not. And they're not the reasons for opposition, they're reality. And you know that, it's not something that's fake, fake. Previously, it was also mentioned by Mrs Kafantaris and rightly says that workers complain that many things have not improved. But they're referring to your period. That's like a comparison. I want to believe...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u56	Eight months have passed that you're ruling!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u57	I want to believe that things will eventually improve. There is a measure of comparison with a period, your period. They say about your period. Let's go to this bill. The Government, in this draft law, once again demonstrates that the emergence of the prevention, promotion and protection of public health is indeed one of its most important objectives. The central axis of the bill is to cover gaps in public health policies such as the organisation of systematic prevention actions and the decision-making of public health crises. This draft law sets out the framework for modern public health policies and actions. Our country is facing challenges in the field of public health, as there is an increase in morbidity due to modern lifestyles. According to valid indicators of international organisations, Greeks are living longer than the average of the citizens of the European Union, but the time spent in good health is falling. The high prevalence of smoking and high levels of weight gain, alcohol consumption, lack of exercise, poor nutrition contribute to the poor state of health of the population. The aim of this bill is to treat bad habits such as smoking, alcohol, poor diet, which have changed our way of life, causing morbidity and premature mortality. However, in our country the health system is clearly a hospital. In other words, we are more concerned about how to cure a disease, despite how to apply more appropriate prevention tactics. This feature, together with other factors, makes imperative the need to establish national pre-cautionary cancer control programmes, a ban on smoking in public spaces, and to promote changes in lifestyle, particularly in nutrition and exercise. For the first time, therefore, the need to develop a national public health strategy is recognized in practice. For the first time in our country, the National Action Plan, with five action plans, is being introduced, measurable targets, with the aim of gradually increasing public health expenditure on the average of the countries of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the concentration of all the actions of individual public bodies under joint supervision and coordination is one-way, if we want to ensure the best possible distribution of actions among the most effective operational bodies. This draft law therefore establishes the conditions for the organisational restructuring of the existing public health service network and their uninterrupted operational interconnection in order to effectively address the cross-sectoral needs of public health. This bill also sets as a new state priority the treatment of dependencies by electronic means, gambling and Internet addiction and social media. It is therefore intended that the general population be trained in matters relating to health, so that Greek citizens can make informed, thorough and conscientious decisions on their health. In addition, the annual report on the health of the population is set up under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The obligation of public health bodies and bodies I and II degrees of local government to draw up an annual report on the state of health of their reference populations is introduced. The next two-year action plan to reduce the energy footprint is to be drawn up and a comprehensive health and nutritional study every five years is to be drawn up. At the same time, local authorities are organizing public health programmes within the framework of the National Action Plan for Public Health. The National Prevention Programme ‘DOXIDIS’, consisting of public health actions in the fields of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention, is also established free of charge, while provision is made for the establishment of a Directorate for Public Health in each health region, which is supervised by the commander of the relevant health region. In simple terms, the primary prevention programme includes the implementation of educational and information programmes for teachers, parents and the general population for the benefits of healthy nutrition, the treatment of alcohol by informing small and large about its harmful effects, as well as the strengthening of rehabilitation centres, as well as the vaccination of special and vulnerable groups of the population. The secondary prevention plan also focuses on the establishment of preventive census tests for cancer, cardiovascular risk and early diagnosis of abdominal aorta aneurysm, while systematic prenatal and perinatal control is also introduced. Finally, the tertiary prevention programme concerns the labour and social integration of people with serious psychosocial problems. In addition, on the basis of the provisions of the bill, the Committee of Public Health Experts is also set up, which is a collective body intended to operate as an adviser to the Minister of Health with regard to final and scientific matters relating to public health. This is an attempt to systematically upgrade the strategic planning of the state. I would like to point out here that the major part of this bill is that all these actions will be available free of charge to the citizens, to insured and uninsured. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation under discussion, the framework for the national public health strategy is being reformed, the development of a health prevention programme and the organisational structure of public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u58	Mrs Anastasia Alexopoulos is called in Stepma from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the Ministry of Health's bill which is taking a dramatic breakthrough due to developments on the issue of the coronary. So I want to start with some thoughts I've had. How ready, really, to deal with a horrifying outbreak of this dangerous virus in our country, as happened in other countries? Do we have the necessary infrastructure for this? If, the non-genus, the coronary in Greece too, are we ready and well-trained to deal with it effectively? These are some very basic questions and we in the Greek Solution warned you at the first time that the coronary began to scatter death in China with our questions to the Ministry of Health. We have, for example, raised a very serious issue, that of the immediate measures that had to be taken from the first hour at airports, ports and public transport. We have been telling you this since January, but the government has understood the size of the problem just now, in March, since it is just beginning to take some half-measures in the right direction. I just hope it's not too late, ladies and gentlemen of the government. In any case, the Greek Solution is justified once again in its locations and forecasts and you will allow me here in the light of the above to make a case. Is it not a little strange, at least, that only three cases of the fatal virus were recorded in Turkey? It is a country bordering Iran, where they do not have time to count the dead from the coronary. So dramatic is the situation there. But only three cases were supposed in Turkey! But how can I know that among the thousands of aspiring invaders who besieged our own borders on Evros and islands, we do not have people infected with this virus? Who's gonna check it out? Who's gonna stop it? They told us yesterday about three foreigners. Now let's go to the bill. A few remarks from me, because I'm also sensitive to health issues and I'm watching them. We have first of all in Article 2 the principles of the national public health strategy. However, a significant omission is immediately identified here. There is no reference to so-called rare diseases, to our fellow humans suffering from rare diseases. Should we not, ladies and gentlemen, take care of a national strategy for them too? They are our fellow citizens who also face serious health problems and need special treatment. Article 3 also refers to the national action plan for public health. Of course, it goes without saying that it should finally be established, because until now we have had a lack of information and awareness among citizens, but there have also been no plans to prevent chronic diseases. And I ask: should the state not integrate into a single action plan all chronic illnesses and disabilities entirely? Yet the priorities set by this draft law leave groups of chronic illnesses outside, for example, sugary diabetes, which is perhaps a million people. With regard to Article 4(b) for the national programme of prenatal and perinatal control, should the most experts, the geneticists, not take over, in other words activating the specificity of genetics? Why should this specialty, one of the most modern and neural, remain inactive? The country, ladies and gentlemen, needs a radical reconstruction of public health, the level of which is quite backward than those of most countries - members of the European Union. This is because our state has been unable to organise efficient public health services for years. Unfortunately this bill will not help improve the situation either. It has no originality, nor is it in line with international standards. The Greek Solution in its program has detailed positions that solve these problems. I would remind you here in parentheses of our basic positions. Firstly, implementation of preventive medical education and care. Secondly, provision of single primary health care. Thirdly, provision of secondary hospital care and fourthly, reorganisation of the ERC and control of costs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, for a second. So if we want to evaluate in a few words the draft law, that's it. The Ministry of Health was not taught by the serious problems in public health. So I'm very afraid that we're going to talk again about a lost opportunity and we're going to talk again here in the future about another amending bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Tsigris had a turn, but he asked to speak later. Then there's Mr. Paulakis, but I don't see him now. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Paulakis and Mr. Villardos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u61	However, at the present stage and aware of the critical issues of public health worldwide, in Europe, in Greece, I think we needed a law that focuses on the central tasks that we can all have come up with following an experience of legislation which has so far led to action in the field of prevention, promotion and health education, the creation of public health services. However, what I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, is that, instead of that, we have a bill which, above all, makes it a repetition of declarations, objectives, which are initiated by the founding law on the National Health System, Law No 1397/1983, and which leads to a number of findings and declarations, which are not what we need at this stage. The government's bill lacks the central role of the National Health System. In addition to preventing, defending public health, increasing the life expectancy, reducing the risk factors, making citizens equal access from every corner of the country, adopting healthy behaviours, it is also hugging the issues of complete physical, mental and social well-being, which is the full meaning of having health. In the explanatory memorandum, the WHO's annual report states that Greece's health system is a hospital, oriented to the treatment of diseases and not to prevent them, without a specific system of references, without a public health service network, has a low concentration of nurses, there are still basic challenges such as cancer mortality, heart disease, etc. The explanatory statement points out that in the light of the above and of the current international trends, it is imperative to concentrate all the actions of individual public bodies under joint supervision and coordination. But that doesn't work. All that still needs to be done, because with what you are doing with the bill the National Health System will continue to be a hospital, the nursing staff will continue to have explosive voids, key health challenges will continue to be tackled fragmentally, a system of references will not work, the oncological hospitals and the oncological departments in the hospitals of the ERC will continue to present huge deficiencies, chronic illness centres will continue to exist, the beds in intensive treatment units will continue to be insufficient. Self-government of the first and second degrees, civil society, voluntary organisations are invited to take up roles that do not correspond to their potential. We have heard Mr Patulis also calling, above all, for the powers which self-government must take over. It's not what we need. We need a coordination of actions and services that self-government, the first and the second degrees of the National Public Health Organisation, but with a central coordinating role the National Health System, because that is where all individual actions can become a single set of actions, which can be effective. The creation of the Committee on Public Health Experts is abrogated by the existing national committees which have also done a very important job, such as the Committee on Vaccines, which we have heard at the hearing of bodies and many others with the national action plans of HCV on hepatitis C, on HIV infection, on microbial resistance, on alcohol. All these issues require structured cross-sectoral policies and coordination of actions, in particular, health care structures with all other bodies. Article 1 of the draft law refers to what were the seventeen objectives of the UN for sustainable, sustainable development, as well as the declaration of Astana to create sustainable primary health care. But what are you doing? You are ignoring the role of local health units, the family doctor of the health group, ignores the role that they can play in all critical issues, as now, with the treatment of coronary, health centers, regional medicine. Instead of the hundred twenty - seven local health units that were able to form in previous governance, you have full silence about what a project can be to develop local health units. The draft law continues with various announcements including the national program “DOXIDE” in various primary, secondary, tertiary prevention actions, which are provided free of charge, but the announcements remain in the air. I think we should focus on the following very important issues, which we now see are creating reorientations in the budgets of the Member States of the European Union. Italy has already announced a financing plan for the needs of intervention for the coronary of 7.5 billion. You have so far announced a plan of around EUR 17 million, and you think that with these issues all needs to be addressed to the health services, the armouring of health material, the armouring of those that the staff of the National Health System need to do their part can be addressed. I think you should focus on an up-to-date plan to strengthen the potential of the National Health System. Let me just remind you that in 2008 the Ministry of Health with the Hospital Doctors Federation, ahead of the epidemics at the time of H1N1 and all the other areas we had with various epidemics, reached an agreement on two thousand recruitments of medical staff and two and a half thousand recruitments of nurses. That design has not been implemented. On the contrary, as you know about other actions - ordering vaccines, etc. - around 300 million euros. So the issue is very specific planning. Our rapporteur, Andreas Xanthos, has made a very specific proposal on what we need now and on all who are working as subsidiary doctors in the system and for those we need. Let us recall that we need a national and European plan at this stage to address all the issues of prevention and public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u63	I would like to end up as a doctor pathologist for thirty-five years who have dealt with epidemics from various issues and appeal to the Church of Greece, because I think that Christianity, as a religion of love, must focus on all the sermons that retire to the issues of his love close to himself and not put to the temptation to use Christian religion as the opium of the people. Because, look, some wicked statesmen, and at this stage, they are using these issues that are invading both protocols and scientific lessons to act as voters. I think, therefore, that we need to get this message, because we need to bring together all the efforts that are being made in order to do our best for this risk now. Along with all the future issues of the health system in the country and in Europe, to be able to deal with all the issues of prevention and effective public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u64	Mr Paul Paulakis is now called by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will not deal with the bill much. I told the committees too. For me, the bill that you are bringing, in addition to a list, the only practical thing that will be done will be to abolish the National Public Health Council, which we established with the participation of institutional actors serving the health system from various positions to be made up of them. You do so, therefore, abolish it and you call it the Committee of Public Health Experts, setting out the way you want it to be made with a scientist, another scientist, to change it, by continuing the logic of Mr. Gerapetritis's state of service, to check what is moving and what is in place by a committee. It's not working that way, Minister, and you'll see that in practice. The rest is wishful. Nothing will happen. How does life bring them to talk about the bill of public health when we are in front of an epidemic explosion - and I wish not a pandemic - about the issue of the coronary. I'll say a few things very specific and take your very serious note. Firstly, what we have to do as a country right now - the first, number one, is try to reduce the spread of the disease. Krone were thousands of years old, and there will be thousands of years later. Each year 15%-20% of winter respiratory infections are caused by coronary infections. The specific one, which started from the food chain in that province of China, shows that it has no borders. I'll give you a parentheses here. We expected this on the basis of the extreme right -wing logic of some of the refugees and immigrants, but eventually came from the rich and from the Christians in our country. Recently, just a while ago, I saw that Mr Marinakis also announced that the coronary visited him. Passing through to man. But some people want to take this into account, who also wanted to use the coronary to water the tree of the extreme right and the xenophobia and all that, which, with your political coverage, developed in the past few days. So the problem with this coronary is that it has a great deal of contagiousity. I mean, a lot of people are gonna get sick. The vast majority will pass it as a simple cold. However, the vulnerable groups, the elderly, the chronic diseases, etc. They may need hospitalization. Here, of course, there is this: it is another thing to incur a hundred thousand, to need a 5% -10% hospitalization, and from them a percentage will die, because it will need a hospitalization in ICU and a percentage will die, and it is another thing to incur a million or two million, which is still too small - and it is - the rate of mortality, the absolute number is large. It is a great deal and the absolute figure of 10% that will require hospitalisation and the absolute number of those who will need an intensive care unit and the absolute number of those who will eventually die. That is why the first thing is through media messages - free of charge, not payrolls such as the old CEDEFOP - an update of the protection measures to be taken by the population, banning mass concentrations, disinfection of public transport, more frequent routes to reduce crowding. We, as SYRIZA, postponed our youth conference, postponed the Central Reconstruction Committee, precisely so that there was no possibility of spreading the virus to such concentrations that gather people from all over Greece. He was wrongly handled in Patras. The Amalada-occupied people said 'we do not like the incident', and, unfortunately, those who were on duty at the EGE at the time said: 'No, Israel is not...' Medicine is not only done with guidelines. There are no diseases in general. There are patients. And he has the ability and scientific adequacy in a large percentage of cases to say that 'yes, that is suspicious and must be introduced'. We would have saved a spread, because of the eighty-nine cases so far, fifty-one is from this excursion to the Holy Land. That's why I said before the Christians. There were forty - seven excursions and four of their relative environment so far. It's been mismanaged there. There must therefore be measures to reduce dispersion. The second measure is the preparation of hospitals with adequate means, materials, equipment, pharmaceuticals, everything required and the configuration of areas that will be welcome for possible imports with specific hospitals, such as “Parmacardis”, “Lomadon”, “Amalia Fleming”, etc. Of course, if all of this is to be done about the beds of intensive therapy, which I will say two - three things then, there must be staff recruitment. I am pleased that you have removed the provision on recruitment and you are going with the subsidiary's platform, which we have been calling you for so long and you should have activated it from Genaris. Don't confuse you with a number of service officers that it doesn't get too late. In three days there's a score and everything. Do it. Minister, it's another thing to say, and it's another thing to do. I experienced it. We've experienced this thing. This is where we want in quickly, and we need to do this. I mean, the system wants backup. Now I'm here to say two things. Can you imagine if we hadn't strengthened the system with nineteen and a half thousand people? Can you imagine having kicked out the four thousand of the OAED we got? Mr Economou once came out here and said: 'No to all of them, the Soviets of SYRIZA'. Can you imagine we didn't have the hundred twenty-seven TOMY? Can you imagine the four hundred thirty-eight Beds we received hadn't done five hundred sixty-eight? Today there are five hundred fifty-five. From July to December, twelve - thirteen beds fell. It's but fifty-five to a hundred fifty nurses that you can hire from the adjunct immediately and can be put into operation. That's what we have in the public sector. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should just like to say two things here, Mr President, and I am speaking to colleagues in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u66	The doctors are giving us a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u67	In the last few days, I see no one talking about the private health sector and about the PPPs that would save us. When cucumbers fall, when milk is tightened, then the public sector wants and so it is, because the protection of the health of citizens is an obligation of the state and it will continue to be, and only then can there be protection of the population. Get a PPP now. Bring no Apostolus and "BIOYATRIKI" and it doesn't allege, make plans for the system. I say this with knowledge and compliance for tomorrow - the day after this boar - and this boar will pass, I hope not with many casualties - then bring them back to us for saviors, all of you who say with the cooperation, etc., because it has mysteried the 600 million that we give from the EEA to hospitals and want to eat them through the diagnosis and concession of the use of the new technology. This is heard by the whole world and how false the whole account is in the end. It is the public health system that will protect, shield the country and give the battle with the coronary or any other epidemic that exists or comes into the future or anything. That's why he wants the support. That is why he wants clear and transparent. That is why you need to implement these measures quickly. I'll say one last word on the matter of the Church. Honestly, because I met because of my position and on the issue of certain structures that we had for people with disabilities and for others with disabilities, some people from the bishop. They were awake people. Such darkness by decision of the Holy Synod I did not expect him, because they were the people I knew. I am impressed by the fact that there are the Ambrosios, the “Christian” of the extreme right, who have occupied bishops, but that was not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u68	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u69	Is the Church of Greece now coming out and saying this, as it is the Holy Synod's decision now? He's not the kind of metropolitan who says he's not stuck. Other churches, such as the Catholic Church, the Orthodox Church of America, other doctrines, Muslims with Mecca, etc. They say that we respond to the calls of scientists and yes we do not do that, we stop the mystery of the Divine Society, because it is obviously transmitted. Where are we going now? What if the earth goes back to Galilee? What if it's transmitted from the spoon that the previous one has touched saliva? What are we talking about? Where do we live, say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u71	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u72	We've been through the double-minute of the doctor's tolerance. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u73	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I think there should be an official response from the Ministry of Health here. I am also ashamed of a teacher, Mrs Yamarelu, who knows letters from Mrs Yamarelou - of course, she had a traffic light, and then to Abraham with the vaccines, but she knows letters - coming out and saying it as a scientist, just so that she doesn't mess it up with the priests, that I know that I am, and it is the right of the believer, that she is sanctified and not transmitted! It must be raised to the front of the country's civil servants in the face of these views! It must rise for the front! This thing, if it expands and takes pandemic proportions, will be huge for society, huge hardships with economic implications, everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u74	Please complete. You've been in 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u75	Get out and take a seat openly as a Ministry not with your representatives! You as a ministry get in position and do what we said. I'm ending up with this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u76	But you've been in 12 minutes all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u77	Wait a minute, Mr. President. And to see that we don't care for you, last year, and the Minister, Mr. Kikilias and the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, told me before, my colleague, and that undescribed Giannako of the WTO, with the thirty-nine dead of flu, had eaten their batches, they had eaten the noodles! I went out to SKAI and bark! He kills Blond and Paul the world with thirty-nine dead then! Today that's eighty-three? Eighty-three is, and it's not a heavy year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u78	Let's not make comparisons now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u79	Heavy year was in 2010 and 2014 with the two hundred fifty and three hundred dead, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u80	In conclusion, the figures are known.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u81	Now that they're eighty-three, where is the sensitivity of all those who broke their clothes last year? I told you! Whatever you're doing, you'll bathe it. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u82	We have said two minutes more to my doctors, but not to overdo it, because the other colleagues will protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u83	I did not reply to Mr Apepi for Zakynthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u84	What can we do now? Your parliamentary representative will answer. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u86	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Polakis, what happened to Mr. Giannako? Together you were building the hospital doors when you were opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u88	You don't know well! I guess you're doing his transfusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u89	You've spoken a lot, Mr. Polakis. Please do not interrupt the Minister. Nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u90	To tell the Minister truths!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u91	Please! Did you talk five more minutes and have you complained? Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u92	What you mentioned about "Pamakaristos" and "Saint Varvara" is a plan that we have announced and I am pleased that you agree with our plan. Because, of course, it is certain - and we have all agreed on this - that the treatment of the coronary requires a joint effort and, of course, a consensus. I would also like to say something else. I am going to be sad when it comes to cooperation with the private sector, because we will have cooperation with the private sector. We will be given additional intensive beds in order to deal with serious incidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u93	Can I answer that? Let's have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u94	But it's not personal!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u95	Please! Mr. Villardo, you normally have the floor. But the Chief of Mera25 also asked for the floor. Because I have told you, would you like to grant your position to the President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u96	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u97	Good. The President of Mera25 Mr Yiannis Varoufakis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today with Italy in quarantine, our world is concerned about its health on the one hand and on the other, about how it will get through, given the growing recession, today, 10 March, we have an obligation, especially since we are discussing a draft law of the Ministry of Health, on prevention and public health, to be worthy of circumstances, on the one hand, by putting forward policy proposals capable, on the other hand, of really supporting the national health system and, on the other, to slow down if not to restore the inevitable new deterioration of our permanent economic crisis. I will put forward very specific proposals on what needs to be done at these two levels. But before I end up there, I think it is important to review the international and European context. Ladies and gentlemen, the global economic activity since 2010-2011 - you know this - is based on a private debt bubble produced by the central banks on purpose in order to support economic activity worldwide. This magnifying growth in recent years in 2020 - as we warned last summer, if you remember - would give its place in a new phase of the European Union. That was specified. You may recall that - it was the first week of September - in this Chamber I had told you about the reversal of the United States interest rate curve, which always prescribes a new economic recession. In this context, the coronary pandemic - and it is a pandemic - has spread over all continents - has simply turned a gradual hump into a sudden digging of this international bubble and so has speeded up and deepened the predefined 2020 recession. Ladies and gentlemen, the fall of stock exchanges is not the problem. The problem is that even if the stock exchanges recover, through brave stimulus on the part of central banks, the new recession will be important and lasting. The originality of an ongoing real climate - for the first time as I can remember, perhaps in the last hundred years - is that it is the first economic recession that comes through a simultaneous blow to both the demand for the global economy and the supply. Let me explain this a little. The 1973 crisis -- those who remember it -- was the crisis of supply. The oil crisis, the increase in production costs, has hit the supply of the economy. The crisis in 2008 hit the demand side, with the collapse of the banking system ceased to be retreated and refinancing public and private debts, resulting in the collapse of demand. The coronary, regardless of its biological effects, hits the demand at the same time, keeping so many people in his homes, and the supply, interrupting the production chains that usually start from China and end up in the factories of the United States, Germany, the Netherlands. Basic mechanism for transmitting this economic epidemic to know that it will be private debt. Last week the International Monetary Fund - which is not my favorite institution, I must confess - issued a very interesting report, which provides for two things: Firstly, the decline from the krone in 2020 will be at least half the size of that big recession in 2009 and that such a recession - half of 2009, I hope it is not greater - will redouble 19 trillion dollars of loans. You know what red loans mean. It means that 19 trillion dollars of loans will not be served. In a second phase, the recession, as long as it is not tackled in time by governments, will bring budgetary suffocation by reducing public revenue and increasing public spending, and so on. In short, the pandemic brought about by the coronary, ladies and gentlemen, speeds up and deepens an already set for 2020 recession. Monetary policy is powerless. Do not look at the European Central Bank helping us. Her ammunition is exhausted. The interest rate is already at a minus 0.5%, Mr Draghi has already inherited Mrs Lagard EUR 20 billion from the securities markets every month. He doesn't have the potential to do much more. Now the game is played by the governments. The question is whether they are able to do it and whether they are willing to do it. Every day we delay the adoption of preventive budgetary measures to stimulate our economies in Europe as a whole increases the cost of dealing with this new recession. The governments' reactions so far fall into three categories, we have three kinds of countries. They are the enlightened reactions that combine fiscal expansion and monetary expansion. I will give three examples: Singapore. Last week $4.5 billion was spent on tourism, transport and food sectors. This, while respecting the Eurozone ratios, do you know what it is? It is the equivalent of the Eurozone having spent last week on having injected a budget in the Eurozone of 160 billion. That's what Singapore did last week. At the same time, it did something else: its central bank said that it would support commercial banks if they wanted to hair up private debts of small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, private housing loans. These last week in Singapore. The Australian, Japanese governments are thinking of imitating - this decision will be taken tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, both in Australia and in Japan - the example of Hong Kong last week, which gave each family a few thousand dollars through tax, through its respective ADP, to stimulate the economy. Australia had done that in 2009. That is why Australia was the only country in 2008-2009 that did not fall into recession. This is the one group of states. There's a second group of states, more media. The United States and the United Kingdom, where the central bank has taken brave monetary relaxation measures - in America they have also been able to reduce their interest rate from 1.5% to 0.5% - and they are talking about budgetary measures, but they have not yet announced them. That's the second charge. There is also the third category, which contains an economic bloc, the Eurozone, only the Eurogroup, ladies and gentlemen. It could be convened at a teleconferencing conference - you heard it last week - in which they unanimously state that the situation is so serious that they will not, he says, do nothing. They'll wait, they'll watch, he says, of course, but they won't do anything. They are faced with the economic crisis that the coronary brings with the same criminal responsibilities and paralysis that have faced the euro crisis since 2010. I read the announcements of your government, Minister, and the Ministry of Finance. The Government has so far taken insignificant measures to prevent the economic epidemic: the suspension of payment of VAT and taxes by companies which have ceased to operate on the mandate of the State. That's obvious, but it's budgetaryly insignificant. As for the initiatives the government says it will take at European level, it is the same no-budget. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it's bad news. Berlin will not move, it will not move for Germany either. They announced an investment injection in Germany - not to mention it - of 0.01%. Do you know that? That is, in fact, a matter of clear mockery. The European Central Bank, as I said before, does not have the tools, has run out of ammunition. What's the result? That while the FED, the central bank of America, reduces the interest rate by 1%, the European Central Bank is paralysed. What does that mean? That the euro's exchange rate is rising against the dollar. Another blow to our tourism, another one to the euro area as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, because there is no time, let me make a direct, documented proposal to prevent the economic epidemic and support the National Health System and your Ministry, Minister, from this Step. We are proposing today, with a sense of responsibility, seven and one measures, which you will have to legislate today, regardless of party ideological differences between us and you and us. First measure: To promptly recruit seven thousand doctors and nurses in the RIS, a financial cost of 220 million. Genuine supply of medical equipment, 100 million, and structural health infrastructure to deal with the coronary, 200 million. Let me remind you - I am sure you have heard or read it, you know - that in China, emergency hospitals have been particularly effective in certain areas. The total financial cost of what I mentioned is 520 million. I shall now refer to something that my colleague said before. At such times, ladies and gentlemen, we see the greatness of the public national health system and see just how useless and inefficient the private health sector is. I hope that this finding, which you are certainly also doing, will help you to recover from privatization and to strengthen the PPP, without hidden privatisations from within, but on the basis of the public interest, which the private sector does not only serve, but is systematically undermining. Secondly, it is very small, but it is important that those of you who are doctors know it better than I do. In China they banned the use of cash in specific areas, due to their transmission of bacteria and viruses, therefore measures to reduce the use of cash in transactions, according to the standard of the Central Bank of China and their substitution of payments with plastic money, debit cards, internet. The financial cost is very small but it will also leave an infrastructure of EUR 10 million. Measure 3: Abolition of the tax advance from 95% to 0% for 95% of enterprises, namely all personal enterprises and businesses with profits of less than 120,000 euros. Financial costs EUR 510 million. Measure 4: Cancellation and suspension of taxation of tourist enterprises that have proved to have been affected or affected during the summer and spring of 2020 by mass cancellations. Financial costs of 800 million. Fifth measure: Discount 50% on VAT on the Aegean islands and the border regions, with the exception of the islands of major objective values, Mykonos, Santorini, Paros. A financial cost of 300 million. Measure 6: Aid of two hundred thousand vulnerable households with prepaid debit cards for 300 euros a month for 12 months, which we had done in 2015. Financial costs EUR 720 million. Measure 7: Programme for the permanentization of assistant teachers and the creation of teleconference structures for schools. This will leave an infrastructure in schools and will also enable schools that are forced to continue to operate remotely. Total financial cost 210 million. Finally, because I talked about seven plus one meters, what is plus one? Increase in other public investment by 530 million. Totally, the cost of the seven plus one measures, which I have just mentioned, is equal to 3.6 billion or 2% of GDP, which will reduce the primary surplus from 3.5% to what should be, at 1.5%. And a note for economists among us: The real total financial cost will be much less than 3.6 billion, given the multiplier impact of the seven measures plus one, namely the increase in GDP and taxes, or at least the slowing down of the recession brought about by these seven plus one measures. There is no doubt that the Troika will put the voices invoke the burden of the public debt. This is politically and ideologically motivated criticism, reflecting their fanaticism, without any basis on economic science. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, the Coupling, it is very easy to prove that the reduction of the primary target from 3.5% to 1.5% will not increase the debt ratio in terms of GDP, that if the seven plus one that I propose are implemented, it is enough for a GDP growth rate of around 1.8% to continue to decrease the public debt rate, a growth rate that is much more feasible if these 3.6 billion euros are diffused in the form of an investment in health and in other key sectors than if we do not. To help colleagues who are not economists check this claim, this calculation, I would simply remind you that necessary and capable treaty to reduce debt as a percentage of GDP is a primary surplus of what is greater than the difference between the average debt repayment rate and the rate of nominal GDP growth over the debt ratio. In other words, with our debt rate being at 181%, a medium-term interest rate that is currently 2.6% is enough, so that we can have a primary surplus of 1.5% without an increase in public debt, a growth rate of little more than 1.77%. Without these seven plus one measures there will be a recession, there will be no growth at all. Only hope of preventing both health and the economy are these seven plus one measures. So the seven plus one measures are prerequisites for dealing not only with the pandemic, but also with its disastrous economic consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, as in the medical section of an epidemic, prevention and treatment as quickly as possible is one of the most unresolved, so in the economy every day when you are delaying the imposition of financial support measures the final account is increased and the cost of depreciating each recession unit is increased exponentially. That is why the government is not entitled to wait. Before the pandemic, since you were elected, you were right, before the refugee, to say that your goal is to reduce the primary from 3.5% to 1.5%. So so far, what were you guys talking about? That GDP is recovering anyway and that gives us time to convince our partners in the Eurogroup. Hey, ladies and gentlemen, this alibi is over! You are facing a collapse of GDP right now. There is no time to convince the unreliable, unreliable and completely inadequate Eurogroup. If not now, when will you reduce the primary surplus? You are not entitled, ladies and gentlemen, to expect the green light from the Eurogroup, the Eurogroup has ceased for a long time - perhaps from the outset - to work, how much more so in favour of many. The unilateral legislation here in Parliament of seven plus one measure which I have just tabled is a one-way, budgetary, economic, health, political and moral one-way. Continuing submission to the Troika Director is a rupture in the interests of both Greek citizens and European citizens. I would remind you that the legalisation of these seven measures plus one measure does not require a loan. EUR 3.6 billion is our money, it is citizens' money. This is an investment in the real armouring of the economy and the National Health System to the extent that our country's potential is and fully aligned with international practice, even leaving an unpredictable primary surplus of 1.5%. That is why we must unilaterally legislate, without any negotiation with the troika. In any case, do you claim that we are no longer in the memos and that there is no troika? Why do you hesitate to do so when the whole of France has a primary deficit that will now increase when Italy, the Italian Government - I don't know, have you noticed? - unilaterally, without crossing the Eurogroup, without passing it through ECOFIN, did the Italian Prime Minister say yesterday - a tonicous financial injection of 10 billion euros? Where are you? Where is your patriotism, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? You're leaving him outside the Eurogroup door? Where is the solidarity of the European Union for which you are halving? Is it on the applause, when they make you put our uniforms on our children to do the dirty work of Mr. Kurts and Mrs. Merkel on the border with Turkey, and when this solidarity disappears, when they are going to let us use our own money to shield our own hospitals, our own society, our own economy? Ms Merkel - I read today in 'Kathemerini' - said she supports Greece, 'Solidarity' - it says - 'with Greece'. We do not want any more support, we do not want solidarity! We want you, Mrs Merkel, to leave us the Greek people's money to be used as an investment in armoring both sanitary and socio-economic! Let us use our own money, invest them in our hospitals, our schools, the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, our tourism! I therefore call on the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance to directly legislate on these moderate, rational, absolutely necessary measures at this point in time unilaterally, without any negotiation. Anything else, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, will remain in history as a violation of national duty due to the troika's orders, a troika that you say is no longer in existence. And don't forget, the seven plus one measures that we are proposing to you will give your ministers the tools to relieve and prevent the symptoms of a pandemic which, thankfully, is mild - and we hope, Minister, will remain so - ruthlessly affected by the economy of an already-born country. Use these tools now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u99	The Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Vassiliou Viliardos, is now called at Step. And to apologise, Mr. Villardo, because we have changed your turn twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u100	You are always noble, Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not know that the Chinese were Christians, as Mr Paulakis said, but, to say it, he will know something. From what I know, from China comes the virus and the Chinese certainly aren't Christians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u101	In our country he didn't come from China, spoke to us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u102	In our country maybe not. Mr Paulakis said that the epidemic was due to Christians - he referred to the Holy Land - and then said from China, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u103	You didn't understand well! Soul deep!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u104	I get it, okay, it's okay. So I will start by the fact that at these moments the planet and our country are being tested by the coronary. With markets out of control it is difficult to discuss this bill. It is a bill, which, although it focuses on prevention of the epidemic, mediated a curious negligence over a critical period of time from both the government in terms of communication with outside and control of incidents. Perhaps, of course, there has been inertia, because the government considered that we are indestructible towards the global epidemic, such as Turkey that has not stated any incident to date despite the fact that TURKISH AIRLINES travel in a hundred and twenty countries. However, we must note here that in the United States, where immediate measures were taken and closed the border from 31 January for those who travelled to China, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, there were only five hundred and twenty-five incidents, little for a population of three hundred and twenty-million, with sixty million tourists only annually in New York, when there are already eighty-nine cases in Greece. President Trump has announced a package of $8.3 billion to deal with the coronary, of which 3 billion to research and the rest to support, which is rather impossible for the bankrupt Greece, in which the figures in the fourth quarter of ELSTAT substantiates a very significant deterioration in its economy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, the fourth quarter of 2019 showed a decrease in growth of 0.7% compared to the third quarter of 2019, while compared to the fourth quarter of 2018, only 1% increase and 0.7% declined in volume terms. These data form the annual growth rate of the Greek economy to 1.9% of GDP, lower than the revised forecasts of various actors to exceed even 2%. Greece's GDP, and in 2019 it reached 194.4 billion euros compared with 190.8 billion euros in 2018. So, with the public debt of EUR 356 billion, our GDP debt returned to 183% of GDP. On a yearly basis, there is also a disappointing marginal increase of 0.7% in gross fixed capital formation, while exports increased at a rate of 4.8% and, fortunately, imports, just 2.5%, although due to the poorness of Greece. The most worrying, however, are the figures in the last quarter of 2019, where in relation to the previous quarter consumption expenditure has only increased by 0.4%. With regard to the increase in fixed investment by 14.4% in the fourth quarter, it is unfortunately due to the introduction of ships, rail equipment and cars, despite the fact that Greece has the lowest investment worldwide. We have therefore remained in the same failed model as construction and construction in the first phase. All this happened in the fourth quarter, without the burden of Brexit and the bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK" for our tourism, let alone the krone. Is there really someone who has the illusion, with this evidence, that Greece has escaped the crisis, that the rolling bankruptcy our governments have chosen to rescue the German and French banks against us will have a happy ending? There is, indeed, someone who has the illusion that the current government, responsible for the signature of the criminal - really criminal! - PSI, has it adopted a rational economic policy and that with a public debt of over 180% of GDP and more than 170% of the private sector is able to develop Greece? Are there still etherists in Greece? Greece could, of course, develop in the short and short term if the government accelerated the sale of public property and the robbery of private money through the auctions, while taking the right measures in time for the bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK", Brexit, migration, European recession and all the rest. However, this was not capable of launching either, but only new criminal measures, such as the HARAKLIS project, the collapsing of the state with banks with a view to re-supporting them with EUR 12 billion probably from the 'cushion', the size of which no one has yet told us. So the global epidemic, which broke out at a time when the world's growth rate was already weak, while many states and businesses in the world are overcompensated, and this, together with Russia's oil war against the United States and Saudi Arabia, may prove to be deadly for the international financial system and really dangerous for world peace. On the other hand, the Turkish threat will escalate even further, since the country cannot withstand the pressure on its economy with almost zero exchange reserves and the huge problems it faces in its economy. Furthermore, it is, of course, early for forecasts on the epidemic, not too early, but to recognise that the next global recession is before the gates, and it will be different from the two previous ones, from 2001 and from 2008. Its starting point is the non-Christian China, whose businesses have already been overcompensated to a great extent. Moreover, in the households and municipalities it will not be easy to serve their debts, which have literally escalated over the last three years, though, unlike all previous global crises and upheavals, it affects both demand and supply, about like the oil crisis in the 1970s. If millions of people stop going to work either because of bans by the states or because of their fear, if the global supply chains collapse, if the borders close and the world trade shrinks, because some countries do not trust the statistics of others, such as Turkey, which has not yet declared any incident, then the problems that will be created in the supply chain will be high on the basis of demand, while the countries affected by the virus will be forced to borrow a lot of money to support their health systems such as the United States. In such a case, those states which do not have sufficient creditworthiness, such as Greece and, above all, Italy - Italy will prove to be a very serious problem for the Eurozone in the near future - will not be able to serve their debts, thus literally opening the coast of Haul with massive failures of states, banks, businesses and households. The 17% yesterday of Deutsche Bank at the opening of the stock exchange is typical, and for the Greek banks we better not talk. Minimum people, of course, are able to understand the challenges of a recession that would be due to combined demand with supply, namely reduced production and limited movement and distribution of goods at the same time as reducing demand. In this respect, there would be terrible shortages of fuel, which would remind the gas stations of the 1970s. But this time, at supermarkets, pharmacies, and everything else. Immediately after - and this is the worst - inflation would be set off at the heights, followed by the rise in interest rates that would give the debt-free states, banks, businesses and households a gifted shot, thus causing a global humanitarian crisis then. Such a possibility would be a very great challenge for fiscal policy, let alone at a time when the monetary weapons of central banks have been consumed, and there are huge bubbles ready at any time to explode. Especially with regard to Greece, of course, the damage caused by the head of Mera25 in 2015 in our country will have nothing to do with the coronary. It will, of course, prove much bigger. As far as the measures he has said are concerned, he has probably not realised that Greece is bankrupt and that he is in very great difficulty to borrow money. In addition, he said, with a growth rate of 1.8%, Greece could get away from the crisis, when he had said a few weeks ago that the medium-term interest rate at which Greece is borrowing is 2.7%. Obviously we cannot have an average rate of 2.7%, grow at 1.8% and reduce the debt. It's impossible! In the bill now, following the statements made by the Minister for Health, it seems that the issue of vaccination has been prepared and it has been announced that it will become compulsory. Also, as a follow-up to world discussions on the recurring of certain communicable diseases, such as measles, here writes that measles swept across Europe and has not been eliminated in Greece. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It seems, however, that additional staff, overtime and medical equipment will need money at the cost of our country which is not provided for in the budget. The 17 million, however, calculated by the government, are certainly not enough. Finally, since my colleague spoke in detail about the draft law, the 'DOXIDE' programme is more like a report of ideas, with several good comments and with reference to concepts of the time, such as UN announcements and the sustainable development of the European Union in Article 1, civil society, NGO volunteers and registers in Article 7, which seems to replace health services, migrants who will increase care needs - so it is reasonably signed by Mr Mitterraki - climate change in Article 2, as well as the burden on pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions in Article 3. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Of course, there has been no reason for 'xiegeite', which we have emphasised many times and ask a question every week, but the Minister for Development has so far never answered. But these are empty words on the bill, meaninglessly, with the view that it will not help Greece at all, as we believe in the whole bill. However, we will not vote against it simply because it promotes public health prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u105	I would like to call in Stepma the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasio Kavada. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Ministry's bill we are discussing today covers the gap in central planning in the area of public health. It mobilises, exploits and coordinates all the actors and means available to the state and society in the direction of improving health services. The debate on the bill coincides with a time-consuming juncture when the world community is trying to deal with the coronary epidemic. Our country cannot be an exception and we must all approach the problem with a sense of responsibility. The notion of responsibility is not limited to the Government, which is acting in a serious and effective manner by taking all appropriate measures in cooperation with the scientific community. Participants are the ordinary citizens, who have to comply with the instructions given by experts, because only in this way is they slowing down and dealing with the evolution of the epidemic. He needs a temper from all of us. If everyone takes their measures and follows the instructions of the Ministry of Health, we'll all be safer. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Health, Mr Kiilia, and the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Kontozamanis, and all the experts who contribute to the excellent management of this crisis, but also all the medical, nursing and administrative staff of all health grades that offer their services with a high sense of responsibility. To date, ladies and gentlemen, the central structures of public health, but also those of the first and second grades, were not integrated into a single strategic planning. Moreover, with the provisions of the bill, there is a uniform and lasting regular planning, which will be kept up-to-date and the necessary preventive measures will be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the top objective of this bill is to prevent prevention as a first priority. Today, 98% of resources in health are available for care and treatment. This is a very high percentage that could be reduced and saving resources allocated to upgrading infrastructure and services. It is no coincidence that, while we move marginally above the average life expectancy at European level, we have as a country an increased rate of 25% in terms of the frequency we have. There is also evidence to worry about, but also to mobilise us, such as the fact that we are the first country in Europe in terms of indicators of child obesity, and that there is also a growing trend in the use of alcohol for minors. Scientific studies and findings show why the prevention sector is crucial. The prevention sector is linked to information, but also to screening. The government has already implemented the anti-smoking law, a law which has the stamp of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has shown boldness and determination and has achieved its complete and universal application. Since twenty thousand of this country's citizens are losing their lives every year from smoking-related causes, implementation of the law was a one-way street. It comes to think that our hospitals are charged with nine hundred thousand days of hospitalization for treatment of smoking-related diseases. We have also all listened with great satisfaction to the Minister for Health to prioritise free mammography for all women, an examination which reduces breast cancer mortality by 30%. It is clear, therefore, the aim of the draft law and is reflected in the establishment of the five-year prevention programme “Spiros IXIADIA” and the establishment of a National Systemic Pre-Supplementary Control Programme. In this context, the uniform strategic planning of public health structures is being initiated. This means that public health structures, self-government structures, grades 1 and 2, but also collective bodies will work in the field of prevention. For example, an information campaign on vaccination of the population will be more effective if it is carried out jointly in a prefecture by the medical, pharmaceutical and self-government associations and always in cooperation with public health structures at the county level. There will, of course, be a coordinating centre consisting of the Secretariat-General for Public Health, a Committee of Experts and will be in conjunction with the health regions. The most important is the measurable result and the ongoing assessment. This is based on the obligation of public health and self-government structures to develop and submit annual reports on the effectiveness of prevention actions. The Preventive Programme ‘DOXIDE’ will be mainly financed by the EEAY and all pre-cautionary actions will be provided free of charge to citizens from the National Health System. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have to admit that today our hospitals are under the greatest pressure of the health system and one of the reasons for this is precisely the lack of prevention. The prevention chain begins with the encouragement of healthy habits, smoking and alcohol avoidance, obesity, proper nutrition and exercise and continues with vaccination and preventive tests. The government with today's bill seeks to decongest the health system, but above all to embrace prevention as a way of life. And this is the dominant message raised by this legislative initiative, which introduces free prevention actions. It is a social choice, a choice of responsibility and social sensitivity of the Government of New Democracy. This choice characterises this bill as having to be broadly consented and supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. I would like to call SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Andreas Michaelides, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a brief comment on the current situation. It is, of course, about the Church's attitude to the issue of threatened pandemic by the new krone. I think that immediately the governing Church of Greece will have to adopt as a whole the recommendations of the scientific community for the precautionary measures in their totality towards the coronary. I think that such a attitude is in no way a retreat to its views on theological and dogmatics, but on the contrary it is a attitude of responsibility and, in the end, a practical love of man, a debt that must be done unsubstantially. Also, to note the attitude of various ecclesiastical actors of other religions, doctrines and confessions on the matter with absolute responsibility and with regard to what I said. I'm coming to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's public health bill is undoubtedly another missed opportunity. And I say this because, on the one hand, it goes far below the bar itself, which the government itself had put with the statements made by the Minister for a bill of incision. On the other hand, the bill is inspired by a raw neoliberal political philosophy, which obviously entails certain benefits for certain specific categories and, of course, damage to other larger categories of citizens. The truth is that the conservative and neoliberal footprint of this bill is not emphatic, perhaps because of the very object of public health itself. However, there are a number of provisions, provisions and reservations, which are self-evident and reasonable, but they ask many questions. It does not stop this footprint from being present not only through what is stated, but also through what is not taken into account enough or not at all. The bill does not suggest a new, innovative way of drawing up and implementing a strategic plan, despite the government's declarations. I assume that this responsibility lies with the five-year national action plan for public health referred to in Article 3, in general and vaguely. A first observation to be made here is that the new law on public health should, if anything, describe the basic principles and dimensions of this design. Otherwise, it is correct to criticise the fact that the bill is being relied on by a sensible simple report of ideas. Then again on the organisational administrative framework which includes the draft law, I would like to focus on the abolition of the ESY, the National Public Health Council, which has been operating for many years and its substantially replaced by the Committee of Public Health Experts. By comparing only the responsibilities of the new committee under the law with those of the RIS, one finds that the new body does not have the important administrative and supervisory powers that the agency has had. Its role is essentially just an opinion. In the same spirit, the bill does not highlight the important role that other public bodies should play, such as EGEY or the National School of Public Health. We therefore conclude that, through the deterioration or dismantling of a number of organs and bodies, the ground is being created for a specific hydro capitalism in the organisational structure of public health. And I say 'especial' because - and this is perhaps the second point of criticism - the bill is based on various levels from the less-state's neoliberal logic. As the Panhellenic Public Health Doctors' Association points out, already since the first article limits the scope of public health to the existing regime, thereby giving a specific, though disguised, political signal to your intervention. This ideological position is also apparent in the relative deterioration of the social and economic determinants of the level of health, as well as in the lack of specific reference to vulnerable groups of the population, which are faced primarily by social difficulties in having equal treatment in primary, secondary and tertiary prevention services. Obviously, we are not stigmatising the action of such organisations, such as volunteer organisations and NGOs, for example. But what the New Democracy Government does in other areas, in other areas, in the refugee field, is evidently inconsistent with the logic of this draft law. In other words, we believe that the increased interest shown by non-State actors in the field of public health is likely to conceal the intention of a partial withdrawal of the State from this field or even a reduction in public spending. In the same spirit, lastly, the primary health care and the role that it is necessary to play in preventing prevention, for example, through the network of the FMDs that we have established and advanced, is not organically and adequately integrated into the framework described in the bill. With these remarks, I think it is obvious that we cannot vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u109	Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos has the floor in order to develop the amendment by a general number of 224 and a special 14. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the health ministry's bill has a clear and concrete target, which is to strengthen prevention actions through a flexible coordination framework. I do not need to point out how important this is, the crucial importance of preventing the health of citizens. In particular, at times such as the one we are currently dealing with, the role of prevention is more important. In response to epidemiological phenomena, not only is prevention needed, but also a single coordination centre to deal with them. And the government is responsible, serious and with due care for the evolution of this coronary epidemic disease. The aim is to limit its spread and that is why all the necessary measures are being taken. In this direction is the general number 224 and a special 14 amendment from the Ministry of Finance, which I believe should be broadly supported by all of Parliament's wings. It is a legislative initiative aimed at strengthening the preventive measures taken. As you all know, there is an increased demand for antiseptic preparations due to the coronary. It is a presumption that there are also increased needs for public health structures, which should be directly covered. With this amendment, therefore, the Ministry of Health or legal persons acting on his behalf may receive freely seized or published ethyl alcohol from the Independent Authority of Public Revenue, which will be made available for the manufacture of antiseptic articles and preparations, in the context of prevention and restriction of the coronary. In this way, the Ministry will have the possibility of entrusting specialised industries or crafts with flexible processes to manufacture antiseptics. The amendment also sets out procedures and formalities for the delivery, receipt and denaturing of ethyl alcohol by these industries or craft industries. The same amendment stipulates that the manufacturing of antiseptics by industrial and craft enterprises on behalf of the Ministry of Health is exempt from VAT. At the same time, a right is granted to deduct the VAT on the company's costs in order to avoid the public being charged on the payment of the tax. It should also be noted that in the event that, following the disposal of ethyl alcohol, it is irrevocably ordered to be paid to the owner by the Ministry of Health compensation on the basis of the cost at the time of disposal, which is drawn up by the customs authority responsible for administering the seizure of ethyl alcohol. The scope of this amendment is set at six months and if there is still a need to deal with this epidemiological disease. I would also like to point out that all the intended safety and fitness measures will be complied with, since the suitability will be checked on the basis of the results of the sample examination report, issued by the relevant chemical service. The transfer of ethyl alcohol will also take place after the authorisation has been issued by the competent customs office and will be accompanied by a chemical analysis paper by the competent chemical department in order to be carried over to industrial plants or crafts which manufacture antiseptics on behalf of the Ministry of Health or other legal persons operating on his behalf. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I believe that this amendment should be voted on by all the sides of the House. I would also like to stress that there must be a high sense of social responsibility from the citizens themselves with regard to the prevention measures taken. We must listen to the experts, but also to the instructions of the National Public Health Agency. The government is responsible and organised to limit this epidemiological disease. In keeping with all the directives and taking all appropriate preventive measures we will achieve the objective we have set ourselves. No panic. In seriousness and responsibility. It is assumed that there are also implications for the real economy, which the government is aware of and is constantly following their development. Yesterday the first measures for support for businesses and professionals were announced, but we do not live there. As I said, we are monitoring developments, we are recording the consequences and, if necessary, there will be other support measures, and for the impact on the budgetary field the debate with our partners has already opened. In any case, the government is ready to deal with all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrinis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is at the heart of economic and geopolitical turbulence. Just now, the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, has continued the provocative statements by speaking of our country's murderous actions against asylum seekers at our borders with Turkey, and he has certainly confirmed his already expressed view that he will not close the borders, urging our country to open its own borders, even though Greece is not the border of the European Union, but Turkey, in a domino of foreign-exchange declarations. And, of course, this makes it even more imperative for the internal front to remain unstable, indeed to become a national front. And I say this because, unfortunately, we have seen some meaningless confrontations between political forces, parties and individuals, who have even given extreme voices the opportunity to understand what has been lost a long time ago, and that is worrying, I think, and should be pointed out by all the governments of this House. And, of course, our country cannot remain satisfied with the support that Europeans, 700 million, or the intention to strengthen FRONTEX, if FRONTEX is not in Turkish territorial waters, if our country does not request a revision and repeal of the Dublin II Treaty in respect of which countries we welcome and, of course, the decongestion of our islands and the distribution in all countries of asylum seekers. We insist and continue to insist that the Council of Political Heads should become, and of course we have also proposed this in the Conference of Presidents. We have asked for a resolution, a unanimous decision of the House. Unfortunately, this has not been possible. As we say about the Conference of Presidents, I would like to bring back to plenary the proposal that we have tabled for two weeks on the establishment of a Intergroup on Protection of First Housing, for which we have so far received answers from some parliamentary parties. SYRIZA hasn't answered. I do not understand why we have no official response to this proposal since you have said publicly that you are interested in this issue, and of course also in New Democracy. We have letters - the Minister of Finance - from the Ministry of Finance to the Banking Union to the management companies. The government is trying to get a picture of the fact that loan arrangements are being made and that we are going in the right direction and that this is a solution, at the same time that it is negotiating - I do not know who - a new bankruptcy code. But all the evidence shows that unfortunately the results are poor and not so encouraging. On the n.4605 platform, voted by SYRIZA and continued by New Democracy, from 71 billion loans have been set to 19 million euros. And of course as magically - and I would like to say so, Mr Besyropoulos has left, I do not know if Mr Kontozamanis is listening to me - from the platform of Law 4605, in which so far we have four hundred eighty-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-demand proposals, they have disappeared the elements that until now appeared on how they entered the platform - last time they were over seventy-five thousand, and we have four hundred eighty-eighty-one regulations - and how they have prepared the process by consenting to the lifting of tax, bank secrets. This evidence, Minister, as you represent the government, has disappeared from the platform of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. On the other hand, the rates of increase in the arrangements made are shown in the Bank's proposals. It says: 84%, we are talking about four hundred eighty cases in over seventy-five thousand applications. So you understand what the reality is, at the same time as the Secretary-General himself, Mr Zavvos, says that these management companies are characterised by a lack of transparency in the way they operate and need more public information, and it seems that the project of securitisations due to the situation in the world economy is currently experiencing a problem and banks appear extremely cautious. It is a situation in which the Greek economy is sadly eroding. We saw what happened on the Stock Exchange yesterday, we've seen the losses inside February, it's over 14 billion. The yield of the ten-year bond has climbed from 0,94% to 1,89% in less than a month, spreads have ejected into the two-seven-seven-seven base points, and of course it is a situation in the rest of the stock exchanges. We saw what happened with the DAX index yesterday, losses of less than 7%, the Wall Street opening with 5% reduction, and the crisis created by competition from Russia - Saudi Arabia, with obvious consequences for the global economy, despite the fact that the Minister for Development and Investment today has rushed to celebrate, says, because this will lead to a reduction in the price of oil. Is this the government's analysis of the trade war between Russia and Saudi Arabia and all that is happening on world stock exchanges and on financial markets? That he celebrates to announce the reduction of gasoline, which comes in - says - end of the week? At the same time, the forecasts of MODY'S for the global economy are very poor. It speaks of the 'black swan' of the world economy, perhaps more devastating than the collapse of the 'LEHMAN BROTHERS'. ‘GOLDMAN SACHS’ speaks of global contraction, recession in Japan, in the Eurozone and in the United States and growth rate in China as early as 1980, when the OECD also confirms the reductions in forecasts for global development, which are of course related to the degree of spread of the coronary and the consequences it will have. The International Monetary Fund is talking about lowering services than that of 2008, lowering household spending, and now it is falling too much political burden and a role in what European partners, the Eurozone and the European Central Bank, whose meeting tomorrow we are looking forward to with great interest, although European banks, the central banks appear very weak and any moves that have very little impact. However, it is imperative to strengthen liquidity in firms by granting targeted loans on favourable terms to the banks of the Member States so that they can be directed at small and medium-sized enterprises, interest-rate reduction measures, such as the Federal Bank of the United States, tax relief and direct aid, and even an increase in public expenditure. The aim is to avoid a temporary crisis that will permanently hit people and businesses by losing jobs and possible bankruptcys. It is therefore imperative that the Greek Government should negotiate with the European partners and the Eurogroup and the Council a budget extension with additional public health expenditure - we are still in a management state, but we must obviously be prepared - with a budget extension for professionals and workers currently affected by the coronary crisis. And, of course, those measures which were announced yesterday, as I think they concern a very small category of entrepreneurs, professionals and workers who are already affected in some areas - unfortunately, one of them is Elias - from the crisis because of the spread of the coronary. A package of measures that we want to believe and which we will be waiting for next time will not speak of suspension, but of exemption from tax and insurance obligations. Of course, she will be talking about suspending enforcement measures - Italy has already legislated this and announced this - and she has announced it - to cover insurance contributions and, if possible, to have partial pay coverage for the workers who should not be in the category of the unemployed because their businesses will suddenly be closed down for reasons of force majeure. And, of course, it will talk about a special public health plan in areas that are currently undergoing an outbreak, and as I said before, and about liquidity in business. At the same time, provision should be made for the parents of children who go to schools and, unfortunately, because of the measures themselves do not go and are forced themselves to be absent from work, for children who belong to vulnerable groups or who go to special schools, that absenteeism is obviously not taken into account, even if their schools operate, in the total number of absenteeisms and, of course, in the workers who belong to vulnerable groups. So we are talking about a comprehensive package of measures, so that the government can show that preventive measures are taken to prevent the economic consequences which we are all absent, but it is very likely that they will be devastating for the Greek economy, if only one thing is said, that if last year's arrivals from tourism had EUR 18 billion revenues, a reduction of 10% of this amount which is a very pitiful estimate, it will actually lead to a reduction of one unit of GDP, when MCKINSEY talks about a 40% reduction in the tourist product. As far as - to return to the issue of the public health bill - the state of public health that we are facing in our country, Greece is in a controlled and manageable situation that does not want panic. Experts have announced that there is a possibility that the disease rate will be close to 5% and perhaps more of the population. And, of course, everyone here together should take advantage of the role, effectiveness and self-renunciation of the officials of the public health system who in these very difficult circumstances really are the refuge for all those who have access to the services, to be informed or to carry out the necessary examinations. The citizens should follow the experts' recommendations, of course, with individual responsibility and, of course, with proper management, Mr Minister, of the incidents, because we feel that there was no proper management in the case of hospitals in the region of Western Greece, despite the fact that the Minister himself on 25 February in the relevant committee discussed the bill was talking about a country armored with regard to health units and hospitals. There is a framework and a plan which has some ambiguity over the meetings and selectively, and if on the initiative, it is corrected, of course, by the Ministry's decisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take two minutes from my dentistry, Mr. President. Here too, we must say that the rules of compliance with the directives on the prevention of the spread of the coronary concern everyone without exception, and I am sure that the Holy Synod with a sense of responsibility, as it has done in the past, will be aware of the seriousness of the situation and will take these decisions which will prevent and dissuade both the places of worship and the measures to protect the faithful. On the other hand, Mr Minister, there was a small number of signs of laboratory control - and it is fortunately corrected - and reference hospitals and private health units should also be involved, at least in terms of the control procedure, if we have an outbreak which obviously cannot absorb the public system, and there were no priori and external special screening facilities at hospitals and health centres. You have our consent and consent, as we understand the seriousness of the situation, and for that very reason - our rapporteur, Andreas Poulas, has analysed it - we will support it and vote for it, despite the fact that this bill has some imperfections and does not respond to modern public health models or spectacularly different from the previous Neighbourhood, Stefan and Kaklamani legislative initiatives on public health. The role of local government for us, as mentioned by Andreas Poula, is central to public health. However, they must also be authorized to operate health facilities, as the committee responsible has mentioned. And for the role of non-governmental organisations it is right that there is a coordinating body that regulates and controls them. However, there should be no purely State intervention, such as public health interventions, now left to the sphere of operation and implementation by non-governmental organisations. And of course, the Alma Ata and Astana Declaration focuses on the part that public health is related to primary health care, and I think that is a key point in the debate on public health. One final reference to prevention will allow me, Mr Minister, and on account of capacity. You refer to primary prevention and secondary prevention. Now the definition of tertiary prevention, in my view, may be a little pointless. However, in secondary prevention, while you anticipate specific actions - and you are right to anticipate - there is a 'acoustic' absence of actions for oral health when you know that more than a thousand diseases occur or arise from the oral cavity and when all international directives highlight the important role of oral health, what we say prevention and not just for diseases affecting the oral cavity. So it's something you need to add, correct it. The relevant scientific bodies have pointed this out to you and I believe that you will reinforce it and include it in the course. In conclusion, I think it is a problem that, as mentioned before, only 1.5% of expenditure is spent on prevention and only when we get to the treatment part, there is awareness and vigilance. I think there is a common sense and will from all the sides of the House to support such initiatives. However, some committees, such as the vaccination committees and others, have actually done a very important task which is inter-grouply and time-consumingly acceptable, not to be abolished, not to be underestimated. We should not have overlapping structures and services especially at this very limiting state of public health, but also social cohesion, because this is being tested in these circumstances of crisis. And I believe that, in the course of this House, we can, as well as through an honest debate, proceed to a correction, because for all of us, defending and safeguarding public health as a good for everyone, with equal access and inclusiveness and other obstacles, is unnecessarily committed. We as a Movement of Change that we are defending, that is what we are supporting and on these principles and values we shall move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u113	I invite Mr. Dimitris Markopoulos to Stepma for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the current developments. The government has shown a great deal of readiness on the question of the treatment of the coronary. We have seen a very organised information effort, but also at the same time prevent this phenomenon and indeed we should congratulate the head of the Ministry of Health. There is a saying - I like ancient Greeks - but it must have evolved into dogma for all of us, the "good superstitious of healing". For years, therefore, in our country, we have been operating in about, with a system "God has", a reasonable bit of a footstep, as he comes and we will see etc. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a Prime Minister who has already shown examples of writing in these eight - nine first months, has a clear different orientation not only on what we have already seen, but also on what they are coming today. He's got another doctrine. To be honest, she has a system, she has a program, she has a preparation. In our 'approximately','maybe' and caffeine analyses constrain, they do not match, they do not express us. As a government that you came, in particular the Officerial Response in 2015, we have to say that you promised to bring the new one, the new one, to leave the old one we were, to come the new one that you, the renewed one, all that you were saying. He'd leave the old and worn. But you forget something: an excellent law. I am referring to the 2005 Act, Law 3370, which you could renew, go ahead, turn it into modern data. However, you did not do that because prevention proved an unknown word for you. How do you talk about health prevention, about smoking reductions, which lead to public health spending, when most of you did not set a good example? Let me remind you of the Minister of Health, Mr Polakis, who, instead of giving an example, as a smoker and saying that "I do not smoke in the Ministry's premises", did the exact opposite. He didn't give a good example. It's not reproaching the face. It's a reproach to energy. I will not say that other Members of Parliament have not done so. But when we talk about prevention, and we want to reduce public spending on health, we should also see those who do not give the good example, do not give people, people understand that we need to get out of some bad habits. That is, of course, because I do not want to be unfair, we must become a common conscience to all of us. I am simply referring to the Deputy Minister for Health from his institutional role, for example, who was required by his position. I am not canceling the rest of the colleagues from both our party and all the other places who, in their public behaviour, have to send an example. This is where we'll tell the truth. So, in order to reduce public health spending, the citizen must take a good example, and if we, the Members themselves, do not give it, who will give it? I cannot, for example, see in the building or in the smoke shop of the House all running quickly, not at all losing the dose of cigarettes, their nicotine, and indeed humor around it. Either we set an example to reduce public spending on health or lie in the world. Every day, then, there is an image of people who are smiling about smoking and there is no public debate about how we will move on to prevention and I am not just smoking, which is a little more avadant. But here, we have a plan for which I really want to say congratulations to the Ministry of Health, Vassilis Kikilias, Vassilis Kontozamanis, because it finally brings a five-year armoured public health system, involving self-government, so with participation from below, with specific action plans, costing. We want a Greek healthy, a Greek not a champion in the consumption of whiskey. Another problem: all Greek Scots suddenly became! First in the consumption of whiskey! We want a Greek who will not be obese, a Greek with respect to himself eventually, because these pathogens that we ourselves have show that we do not respect ourselves. That is why the annual report on the health of the population is being drawn up. Prevention: This is the main word, that is our project. In fact, this project is part of the Civil Society. That is why there is coordination of support for voluntary organisations in the field of public health, keeping a register, which I consider to be very important, in order to know where we are going as a society, in some directions and clear organisational charts. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to get far, but I think this draft law brings a new conception, a new model. Resources from care, after there is provision, after there is also prevention, which is our main concern, will be transferred to public health. Smoking - you all know - costs a billion euros to the public health system. In alcohol its use has increased - listen to this number -34% in young children, our children, your children, regardless of political orientation and political space. We're the first in childhood obesity. Do we not have to deal with these problems? Should we not give our own children help in the future of this country? So this situation has made us even further than prevention, dear friends, and again, by calling on all of us, regardless of political position, to set a good example. The culture of smoking, the anthems in this very bad habit, the negative image of ministers who drink, the ministers-chiminiers, who sue and send out wrong messages all over the world must be removed from all sides. Obesity must be addressed. The citizen who drinks alcohol must understand that he destroys himself, that he is a substitute. We should lead him to new examples, and that is why and because this draft law really helps in this direction, we support it and we vote on it. Thank you very much - very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u115	I call to Stepma the SYRIZA MEP, Merope Jufi for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the multi-advertised bill on public health was announced by the Minister of Health himself as a bill - a cut. In our assessment, it is a summation of declaratory statements and wishes, which is far too far from being a structured and practicable political proposal for the defence of public health and the development of public health services. Your legislative proposal is another version of your policy for a lesser State, a policy that is not at all compatible with international practice, even in countries such as the United States of America, where the health system is almost entirely privatised. This issue is nowadays being stirred up with the global coronary epidemic. Let us look a little at what is happening in our neighbouring Italy, which is severely affected by many cases and deaths, and there are forecasts even of a million animals being lost. The austerity, austerity programmes and the efforts to privatize the Italian governments, which the system was regionalised, with choices made by local governments, provoked by the extreme right, weakened the health system. Today, for the Italian colleagues, the question in these difficult circumstances has been shifted not to whom they will care, but to whom they will incorporate, according to the criteria of age and state of health, things very difficult and very dramatic. The Italian public health system was cut by EUR 37 billion, beds decreased by seventy thousand, closed down some four hundred departments and workshops, while staff decreased by 50% and all of this in the context of the financial adjustment. What are colleagues in Italy asking for today? Five hundred meth beds. They have been forced to build hospitals in tents, because the treatment is to have 3,2 beds per thousand inhabitants at their disposal. Dramatic things, which show us images of the future if the SYRIZA government had not intervened, which, despite having to manage hard austerity programs, was mostly able to keep the public health system up. How could one implement health policies? By staffing and brave growth of human resources, by upgrading the available infrastructure and renovation of equipment - we have heard about the closure of the "Agia Barbara" hospital, which we are now considering reopening - through the training of staff, by rationalising the administration system, by strengthening the coordination of ministries, bodies and health units. On the other hand, you are creating a system that you are saying is providing the authorities of the State of Staff, but which is trying to suffocate government control over the competent scientific and advisory bodies by setting up the Committee of Public Health Experts. We told you to strengthen the ESS, the National Public Health Council, where all the scientific bodies and services were represented, and it was the only body responsible for preparing and proposing the national public health strategy and the individual national action plans, which were also delivered to you for alcohol. On the other hand, no university participates in the establishment of the EDPS. Why such a lack of trust? Why are you undermining the role of existing national committees, for example, of vaccinations, dismantling the work and unselfish offering of skilled scientists operating over time and regardless of governments and playing a crucial role in the previous period, as I will say next? I come to the point whether for the first time we have a programme to prevent public health. In fact, for reasons of purely symbolic and communication, you refer to a great pediatrician and professor, Spyros Doxiadis, who, although coming from the conservative space, has been particularly innovative and progressive in his approach to public care, since he said as a fundamental point of his approach that care for the health of the population can only be the responsibility of the state, and that is why he was a warm empathy of the National Health System. The relationship with this legislation is being sought. Totally misleading is the announcement by the Ministry of Health that for the first time preventive tests are provided for. You are well aware that the Single Health Regulation of the EEAH already prescribes and free trials of a preventive nature with zero participation of the beneficiary, in accordance with the guidelines for early diagnosis of breast cancer, cervical uterus, prostate, colon and prenatal control of women. In fact, two vital preventive tests, such as digital mammography and ultrasound level two, were costed and started to be compensated by the EEAH at the government of SYRIZA. Now let's go to the training section. There was cooperation between the Ministries of Health and Education and the Institute of Education Policy on the implementation of a national programme which included a number of very important things over a period of three years and, indeed, a series of formulations of material for public education. This thematic week was held at the high school students to be informed of critical issues, such as body, diet, dependencies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one or two more minutes, Mr. President. The Institute for Education Policy had made this thematic week in a very large number of high school schools in the country. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education has decided to abolish the programme and we expect explanations and answers to that. And to say another innovative programme, because it is a great debate on child obesity and school meals. You remember very well that you said that these are, in any case, in the wrong direction. On the contrary, their aim was to promote healthy and Mediterranean food and not only to tackle malnutrition, but also child obesity. And we see that at national level at this time you are undermining this very important effort. As far as the National Vaccine Programme is concerned, tell us what you have done for the displaced populations and those in danger. Can you implement the vaccination programme for applicants today, as had been done in the previous period, after the abolition of the AMCA? Let me remind you here, as it is not only the issue of the influenza epidemic, how the part of the measles epidemic was treated, which was a global epidemic involving special populations, which were Roma children, the displaced populations, where there was a pandemic involving the CEDEFOP, the Ministry of Education, medical clubs, including NGOs, to deal with them, how the problem with refugees coming from Syria was dealt with and there was a local poliomyelitis epidemic, how the problem of hepatitis A cases was dealt with in Idoede. So, in this regard, SYRIZA in difficult circumstances was able not to erupt any important public epidemic. I would like to end with the part of the coronary and ask: we have made the decision at the first time to deal with this issue not demagogic and populist, as the New Democracy had done in the past. You said there was an action programme. Indeed, there is. But you must run, Minister, because it is not just the reference hospitals. You need to help out regional hospitals, which are likely to have to bear a very heavy burden, because if the reference hospitals only deal with the coronary, the other hospitals will keep all the necessary weight of the care. So, in your strategic plans and through the OPOs, try to coordinate all available services and, of course, start implementing the recruitments, which you have been frozen all this time, with the fastest possible procedures and will be there, as our rapporteur has said, cross-party consensus. I have not quite understood your position on private sector participation. You said that ICU beds or single beds will be available and at what cost. Is this only about the operation of private laboratories, given that the special test is costing 150 to 200 euros? You could, in this case, use and activate the university research laboratories, which have the knowledge and the ability and in consultation with the universities to have reliable services, which you can use. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think we can manage to deal with this very high risk to public health in so far as the Ministry of Health and the State has made an absolute commitment to the principles of scientific documentation, transparency, solidarity, public accountability and the continuous upgrading of the ERC services with the disapproval of its officials, who have demonstrated this repeatedly in the past and who can. But you must stand close to them. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u117	You're about to finish, but you've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u118	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u119	I've heard it five times. Excuse me, but my patience is exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u120	Allow me. I won't talk for more than a minute. From the course of things to now it has been shown that the treatment of the virus is primarily a matter of medicine and biotechnology. The stirring up of the epidemic, however, is a matter of broader social understanding, which is not achieved by words such as "internal enemies", "Erdogan's Syrian horses", but with targeted economic measures national, European and global measures to support workers and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u121	Please warmly there will be a reasonable extension of time, because I, when the other person says 'I'm done', say that it's okay, will be over in half a minute. Let me call SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Leuteris Avramaki, to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, starting with the draft law adopted by the government, I will say that it is inferior to the circumstances and that it is your legislative intervention to abolish the National Council for Public Health and replace it by a committee of experts, which will in principle be designated by the Minister and which does not have the necessary institutional expression and scientific formation and training. The country, Europe, the world lives a great challenge, that of the coronary, which self-evidently creates fear, anxiety, reflection throughout society, all over the world. You told us a few days ago that the country was shielded. We told you to land and make a serious and substantial effort in the direction of strengthening the public health system in order to tackle this crisis when it comes to the country. You set silky targets and you're about to go under the bar. Previously, the relevant sectoral and former Minister, Andreas Xanthos, tabled a comprehensive draft of proposals and interventions to deal with the coronary from the public health system. We have said that on major issues such as public health, we will not make irresponsible and small-party opposition, as you have done in the past, but we will stand with responsibility and maturity, with the sole aim of dealing with the exacerbation of coronary disease and ensuring public health and the public interest. You must immediately and effectively step up the strengthening of public health structures in order to address the crisis of the coronary and prevent the apparent pandemic that can have negative consequences for the future of people's biological life, but also for the economy and tourism, which will lead to a recession and a crisis in the country and the global economy, if we consider the sharp fall in stock exchanges, which, as we hear, is similar to the economic crisis of 1929. The government is trying to convince the Greek people that it is interested in public and free health, that it has a draft of an applied policy to tackle all the problems, particularly the coronary, which hits our country and the whole world. The first failure of the re-emerged ERIC through its party administration is a fact and threatens itself with the spread of the new virus. He's threatening the economy. It has already caused an impact on the country's heavy industry, tourism. The New Democracy believes that, in order to correct the bad texts of the public health system, it is enough to do so: partnership with private individuals and the retreat of the public system against private interests, the individual responsibility of citizens at the level of disease avoidance through healthy lifestyles and, thirdly, the provision of private funding for health needs. None of this, however, really can assure the whole population of the public health services provided and the possibilities of the public health system to respond to emergencies. The rename of structures only to place New Democracy officials in paid posts, the creation of new posts to meet the needs of party officials, the provision of the creation of countless committees to be paid, proves one thing only, that the New Democracy insists that it waste public money for the needs of its officials rather than exploiting every euro available for public health. Reduction of even the treatment of the coronary to individual liability constitutes the government's most unambiguous confession of incapacity. False manipulations in the evaluation of symptoms, the irreversible public health system, despite the fact that this is a phenomenon that occurred on Christmas in China and it was a matter of time for it to reach Europe and our country, the mistakes made in the early diagnosis of patients, despite the fact that doctors warned and asked for the diagnostic tests to be carried out, as you did, said they did not need to, led to this outbreak. It is not the individual responsibility of the citizen. Public health is not a matter of individual responsibility. It's the state's responsibility, the public health system. The fact that quarantine is not even controlled by public structures and the responsible political leadership claims to be a matter of individual responsibility is proof of the impotence of the government to one of the most critical issues it has to deal with. This is a matter of public health, and it is unfortunately the result of the first months of New Democracy's governance in the field of public health. A characteristic example is Serres Prefecture and our hospital. Just so that some of your representatives, the government and the party can claim to have intervened in order to proclaim the positions of doctors for the reinforcement of the hospital, cancel the SYRIZA government's notice that would have already added nine doctors to our hospital, including pathologists, to proclaim the same positions and specialties and to have eight valuable months lost and not to have come yet, at a time when the world is concerned and headed to hospitals even for a simple flu. Eight months now you have done nothing but paid committees and the reintroduction of an opacity system in the management of resources. Primary health care, the new structures created in the years of the crisis over the last four years and could today help significantly to the strengths of the system have remained numerically the same and their role has only diminished to serve the election account of the New Democracy. You come today and wish this way, the bill, the development of primary health care, while discussing the closure of health centres throughout Greece or their degradation in regional and rural medicine. You systematically weaken, for example, the Serres Hospital, with a more recent example of the unjustified decision to make a permanent hospital anesthetic and to place it manager in EKAB Kavala, without taking care of it. Result? It is not enough for anesthesiologists to carry out regular surgery, to provoke delays and for citizens to be forced to go either to private hospitals or to Thessaloniki, in order for the public health system to be charged there too, serving a much larger population. You canceled all carnival events throughout Greece, but leave the stadiums open on the same day and now you decided to close the stadiums. People came to the airports from all over the world and no control was carried out anywhere. Individual responsibility only! Result? It closes one school after another, but in order not to conflict with the religious hierarchy you let go freely and do not even comment on opinions that conflict directly with scientific data. The government must take measures to protect public health, but it is afraid the priests might get dissatisfied. Here I appeal to the Holy Synod of Greece - and as a person who participates in the mysteries of the Church - to revise its position and attitude, to become more flexible and more realistic and to respond to the new scientific evidence. The question is clear. It is not whether the disease is transmitted or not through the Divine Society. Congratulating groups and populations in the congregations can uncontrollably spread the disease. It is not a matter of faith, it is a matter of public health and it is the government that has an obligation to protect it, not every individual citizen who can have the virus and not yet manifest the symptoms. All the government is doing is informing about the increase in cases and does not really take any substantial measures. The scientific community says every day what needs to be done and all it is to close schools, get patients into a voluntary quarantine, since no one controls the respect of the quarantine, and increase cases every day. You come here and all you're doing is wishing that spreading is mild in the country. You do nothing for all these months to strengthen the public health system because you just don't care. You are only interested in creating more space for private health services and this global epidemic comes to prove to the most extreme neoliberal and fan of the private economy that what every state and every citizen really needs is a strong, reliable and efficient public health system that can respond to any need for a whole population. In conclusion, if you did not degrade public health structures and if you did not change the mechanism created by the SYRIZA Government, the system today would have demonstrated better reflexively, it would have been organised and responded better to these needs and not because SYRIZA created it, but because the previous government had made sure that it was given a decisive role to scientific executives and not to party executives. You returned to the logic of the client state to satisfy your party executives and party leaders throughout Greece, thus degrading the role of science and significantly undermining the potential for reaction and the results of the response. Your inability, your ideological obsessions, the client culture that characterizes you proves extremely dangerous for the country, for society even for the national economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u123	I call on the New Democracy MP, George Kotsira. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA will be followed. Here, Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on a very important and special draft law on public health is taking place at a time when our country is also facing a very important crisis. The world's most advanced health systems suffer unprecedented shocks. The Greek health system gives its own battle with determination, cooling, having as guides the methodicity of executive power, the government and the know-how of Greek scientists, experts of public health. That is why, given that this bill comes to shield the public health system even more, the debate that is being held in my opinion must be constructive and essential, without party bumps and additional conflicts on issues that, in my opinion, we must agree, such as culture of prevention, which are particularly important for the younger generations, and we must all show responsibility, in particular at this time, for our country's critical, with a particular problem of public health, to protect in the way that corresponds to the Greek state but also to society itself and to the political system as well as to its behaviour with the vulnerable groups and to cultivate a culture of prevention and protection, especially at such a critical time. I would also like to congratulate the Ministry of Health for its efforts to date within a very difficult period. In spite of the overall increase in life expectancy, Greece faces more important health challenges. The increase in morbidity, due to our lifestyle, high levels of weight gain and obesity, the poor state in general health of the population in recent years, mortality from non-transmissible diseases, the increase in prevalence and the impact of communicable diseases, the worsening of mental health in large parts of the population are some of the main causes for increasing the specific effects on public health. According to the World Health Organisation's annual report, our country's health system is mostly a hospital, emphasising to a greater extent the treatment of the disease, and not so much the prevention of it. This does not apply to a particular system which can lead to and demonstrate the way to prevention, and this obviously has a negative effect on an individual level, because the Greek and the average citizen often neglects the preventive part and visits according to their own doctor, as well as on a collective level, where billions of euros are lost in the health system at times, which could be channelled to other activities, to health research, to prevention, to the upgrading of health infrastructures, and so on, and so on, our hospitals often take extremely heavy pressure and meet the daily very difficult requirements thanks to the skills and the sense of duty of medical staff. And because we see, dear fellow Members and colleagues, how critical and fragile economic and medical data are, we all have to think twice and three and four times more about the prevention and the conditions that we create to avoid, in many cases in extreme crisis, outbursts and tensions in the health system, which must be protected in order to be able to cope with timely and efficiently. So what objectives should we set ourselves, so that these challenges can be effectively addressed? Since 75% of the causes of the non-transmissible diseases referred to above are directly related to lifestyles, namely social and behavioural indicators of modern lifestyle, smoking, alcohol consumption, obesity, non-sport, sedentary life, it is necessary to place emphasis on the adoption of healthy behaviour, particularly those who are at mid-aged, but also those of school-age children, where we have to pay a great deal of attention, because it is a matter of educating and cultivating a culture that will follow public life for too many years and it is something that we can build all the political parties in the single market without having a concept of micro-party management. The anti-smoking law has undoubtedly contributed to this function, and has contributed to creating a culture for the younger generations, for all of us, so that we can see another perspective. And it will be very important to implement it so that there can be a real reduction in the painful effects of smoking, which are obviously not only personalised but also reflected in the costs incurred in the National Health System. Secondly, it is necessary to establish national early-stage cancer control programmes and to concentrate all the actions of individual public bodies and social capital under joint supervision and coordination, in order to ensure the best possible availability of resources and to allocate actions among the most effective operators. The aim of the legislative initiative that is coming today is obviously the reorganisation of public health, which focuses on preventing systemic risks and improving public health indicators for the general public. And here we have to say that both the head of the Ministry of Health since the beginning of its term and the Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself, since he was the leader of the opposition officer, had obviously put the protection of the National Health System at the core of the policies of the New Democracy and also the functioning of prevention as a basic method in order to be able in the medium to deal with many problems that we will find in front of us constantly if we do not invest in this area. The three main pillars of the bill concern the area of new public health, which, as I have said, goes beyond the traditional limits of hygiene and prevention and extends to cross-sectoral interventions, the reduction of risk factors, the change of lifestyle in the wider social environment, the reduction of inequalities and various health strategies, the institutions, which were analysed in detail by the majority rapporteur. The cornerstone is the protection of prevention and its cultivation. This does not, in our view, have a class mark, but instead supports sensitive social groups, giving them access to quality public health services. In particular, it is the National Prevention Programme called “DOXIDE”, which is part of the five-year National Action Plan for Public Health and consists of public health actions in primary, secondary and tertiary prevention children. These actions, no doubt, when they can be supported by the LAGs - which is a particularly important addition because they reach the basis of society and there can also be information and prevention and vaccination - they can support this great effort unitedly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me one more minute, Mr President. In my opinion, universities can also assist in this process, because there are public health programmes that can also be of assistance at the level of know-how and at the level of joint actions, but now the activity, as we have said, of OTAs can be important. A characteristic example of cases, as in my own region, in West Attica, where there is a great problem in the “Thriasio” and “Attica” hospitals, which are close to, the support of primary health care. In the Megara here - the State Secretary, who was part of the solution, knows that - there was a serious issue that was resolved. And we must be close, watch primary health, health centres, support them so that they can meet the challenges of modern times. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying what I said before: for us - and for the younger generations - prevention is a matter of culture. It is a matter of culture which, in our view, does not have - partisan walls, because anyone who governs implements their own policy, but the problems that remain - and which we can deal with by adding something - are particularly important. For this reason, at this time especially where we are being watched and at a very difficult time for global health conditions, our country must protect the conditions that cultivate prevention, so that we do not face much more problems in the future. Be well, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u125	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once upon a time there was a government that took over the country in very difficult conditions and decided to leave it in a better position, making a pillow for any government that would come next. The predecessors of this country, the interests - private, financial, banking, media - said that it does not need this. In fact, they ruled for two hundred years this country and never created such a pillow, and this country had many bankruptcys in these two hundred years. But that government has decided that only in this way could we avoid the preventive support line that could create a new memorandum in a worsening economic crisis. And he knew that this government alone will be able to face a future financial crisis or a pandemic coming from abroad. Once upon a time there was a government that began its term of office in response to the humanitarian crisis. They said that he does this because he has a class hate for the middle layers. The government insisted and its flagship intervention was the insurance of the uninsured, because it knew that the disease had no borders or geographical or classic. And he never crossed the mind of this government to remove AMCA from young children. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a long time ago a government, which emphasised health and began for the first time to have primary health and to have the TOMYs. They said that this is inconsistent with the private initiative, they will take jobs from the private initiative. And when the prefects came back to their natural position, they did not give any emphasis to the TOMY, they kept them as they were without any enthusiasm. That government that knew that before the crisis the government paid 6.8% of GDP health expenditure - falling to 4.6% in 2014 - was able, in spite of all the difficulties, to increase it to 5.2% and had a plan for four years to reach 6%, less than the average, but at least by approaching the average. And so, despite all the difficulties, he had designed four thousand jobs in health and for 2019 and 2020. Once upon a time there was a government that wanted to promote growth and deal with its creditors, to leave the 3.5% 'Zurlemania', and that is why it made a concrete approach to how to take advantage of this 'cushion' for growth. They said that it is not necessary, "Let us come here to build credibility, and then we see when we will reduce the targets that have been imposed on us." Consider what growth would have been in the fourth quarter of 2019, if the new government had announced an additional stimulus between 1.5 and 1.8 billion euros. Mr Xanthos spoke of the bill, our rapporteur, many of our MPs who are still here and watching. Our concerns about both the TOMY and what you are doing about privatisation have been expressed and about the fact that you are bringing a bill that again leaves 'grey' zones between the public and private sectors. We are also concerned about the EUR 15 million announced yesterday by Mr Stagioras. Do you really think that this crisis we are facing is EUR 15 million? Our calculations would say 150 million euros would be closer to what we need. Let me say a little more, however, about the economic policy that is also problematic now with this coronary. Of course, the global economy and the Greek economy which has already gone wrong since 2019 are entering the equation. And we know that this economy will now be hit twice because of the coronary. We also know that monetary policy has given the world economy, from the Fed, from the European Central Bank, has given it, that, when we have almost zero interest rates, it is not much that monetary policy could do. And so we need a fiscal policy that is expansive, which is the only weapon left. Once upon a time there was a government that pushed the other governments into all the fora, the Heads of Government, the Eurogroup, the various other organisations to change the basic momentum of policy towards austerity, to rethink the objectives, to rethink the Stability Pact and the rules resulting from it, to rethink the coordinated fiscal expansion policy that it needs. Because the Stability Pact was built at a time when everyone was afraid to do so - to have a connection with what I said before - that if there is no coordination, budgetary policy will be more expansionary than it needs, and now we see that we have countries both with budgetary space and with a large surplus in the balance of payments and with a low debt, which do nothing to help this European economy. Once upon a time there was this government that was pressing, because it had neither links nor ties to a European people's party that has its flag of austerity nor did it change things in the European Union. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, once and for all there was a government that faced far greater flows in the refugee sector and did everything to prevent a crisis from turning into a drama that never thought to divide the world, which never thought that this crisis could be tackled without humanity, which never thought of the word 'rightfulism', which I also heard from Mr Loverdos. I do not mind, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, which I have heard from Mr Voridis. I was sad to hear from Mr Loverdos that 'rightfulness', as if rights were a no-card, may exist next day, as if there were no international conditions binding on us for too many things. This government then faced this crisis and, as Mr Xanthos quite rightly said, then others came to Greece to thank us and show their solidarity, not representatives from another country that remembered Nazism. And I would like to finish, Minister, with a question and to you, Mrs. Parliamentary Representative: do you think that I am the 5th convoy, that I am the Trojan horse of Erdogan or Mr. Xanthos or Mr. Papadopoulos or Mrs. Jufi? Is that what you think? You can say it by name if that's what you think. In this economic crisis that we are also facing in this refugee crisis, is this the New Democracy's position, that these five names I mentioned to you, are the Trojan horses of Turkey? Is that what you consider a responsible government attitude? Aren't you a little ashamed of your Government spokesman for saying this thing? Are you a new Republic or a new ERA? What exactly are you? What do you represent? What ears do you want to pete? Aren't you scared at all? Do you not even read your own newspaper that starts and is afraid and says that with what you do with the refugee, what you did with the press can completely escape? And are you asking for a consensus, that we all be wise so that we can deal with national issues? You have no sign of shame when the Government representative says that? Since when do you hear that, that some are representatives of a foreign country? I'm afraid you're building a block of forces on the right, where the liberals among you will only be a parrot to sell where and where in an international forum your Prime Minister can speak, but your torso will be this far-right torso. And he'll be the far right, because things after a point don't get together. You say that, you say it again, you cover what is happening, you do not openly speak, you do not tell truths in the world and there will be a moment when you want to block it, you will understand that it has escaped the subject and you will not be able to do so. And then your responsibility for the state of the country will be totalitarian. I hope that you will understand in time that this crisis must not turn it into a drama, nor build a new identity of the Greeks on racism and xenophobia. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u127	The honourable Member now has the floor for seven minutes, Mr. Burhan Barran.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, few would disagree with the view that the National Health System is unable to meet the increased needs of citizens and the current challenges for the provision of quality and accessibility to all services. The economic recession has left its print in Greek society clear and the investigation of its health effects is absolutely essential. Our times are now marked by rapid developments and continuous reclassifications in the international scene where there are many issues that concern all the citizens of the country. I would refer to the refugee and migratory species at its peak, the outbreak of seasonal influenza, the major issue that has arisen lately with the coronary, as well as the great increase in chronic diseases associated with the ageing of the population and lifestyle. All of this makes it imperative that a national public health action plan be set up. At first reading of this draft law, one sees the fact that the present government is attempting to organise the framework for the implementation and implementation of the national public health strategy with a view to preventing public health risks on a five-year basis, which will define the individual actions and bodies that will implement them. Nevertheless, we are inconsistent with the conclusion that this is a centralised and fully bureaucratic, organisational model for planning national actions on public health, for preventing, but ignoring basic parameters such as primary health care. Ladies and gentlemen, if we focus on what the government is seeking to legislate, we will discover a large number of shortcomings. For example, there is no reason to strengthen the institution of a family physician. You are talking about public health and the bodies involved in it, but there is no reference to family doctors. Do you recognize or take them out? I am also sorry to see that there is absolutely no mention of the behavioural risk factors for psychogenic food intake disorders within a bill which, if anything, concerns the prevention, protection and promotion of health. Food disorders are a very big problem, which should be diagnosed in time and treated as any serious disease, because in any other case it may threaten the life of the individual, as they are associated with high rates of morbidity and mortality. Every year a significant percentage of the population experiences a food disorder. Primary protagonists are more frequently teens and young women. The problems faced by patients are the lack of hospitals and, among other things, hospital beds for critical incidents. There is also a lack of action to prevent and inform citizens and, above all, pupils, since we know that there have been cases of food intake disorder even in pre-adolescents. These are issues which must concern us in order to provide a definitive solution. I have read how possible partnerships between bodies and public, voluntary organisations and other public health bodies are envisaged. In fact, there is talk of financing these contracts. Really, what are these voluntary organisations? Can you tell us? Are they the same ones to be entered in the register provided for in Article 7 of the bill? In conclusion, therefore, we again come to this obsessive government decision on public partnership with the private sector. This bill also includes National Primary, Secondary and Thirdary Prevention Programme, which is part of the National Public Health Action Plan. I will particularly focus on tertiary prevention as a clinical doctor, including the National Programme of Psychosocial Integration and Rehabilitation for people with serious psychosocial problems. On the one hand this is a positive development. But I have had my reservations in judging by the Xanthi Hospital psychiatric clinic, whose nursery has been incapable of working for ten years, Secretary, despite the fact that all facilities are ready and fully equipped. Sadly, however, it rustles. I really want to talk to you in my capacity, that's the doctor's. Having lived in close proximity to the problems of the psychiatric industry, I find day after day that psychiatric incidents, which require hospitalization, are dramatically increasing, resulting in endless suffering for patients outside the prefecture of hospitalization. And all this according to the principle that a healthy population should be served by a well-organised health system, as it is a vital issue for the development of the country. At this point it is essential to refer to as a doctor and to the issue of the spread of the coronary that is agitating humanity. The country today needs as much as ever a strategic prevention and protection plan with the collective effort of all political parties, the scientific community and all parties involved in dealing with the problem. At the core of this policy is valid and timely diagnosis and decentralised personalised management and treatment and follow-up. A national action plan is needed and it is time for brave initiatives. As our President Fofi Gennimata has already pointed out, the convening of the Council of Political Heads in crisis cases is essential to deal with them, after consultation of all. At a given time when we are under threat of a coronary dispersion, I am sure that is the case. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, we conclude that the above considerations lead to the more general conclusion that the legislation which is being introduced before us, as well as the entire effort of the Ministry, cannot be realistically characterised. Not at all! We would say that it is problematic in terms of both the creation of another organisation since it does not have the necessary staff to carry out this important task of public health. There is no structured programme and no systematic planning of its execution. There is a need for consistency, effort and responsibility in order to maintain the supreme good of health, which is being placed at all levels, as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u129	I call to Stepma the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Nikolao Srmalene, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will not speak of the bill. I think that both our rapporteur and the parliamentary representative and all of our Members have been adept at your responsibilities not only on the issues of public health which are obviously on the rise because of the well-known epidemic, but also on all other issues that are at the moment very critical of our national issues and the refugee - immigration. I think that some of you at least must have been shaken up by what has been said before, so that you can switch roosters before we reach the deadlocks in total for the country. I went up to Stepma because I'm taking the opportunity to talk about something. I am pleased, Mr Secretary, because we had also spoken in the timely question just before Christmas about the Santorini Hospital. I come from the Cyclades area and because the Hospital of Santorini is currently in depreciation, I would like to raise a few issues and honestly answer - to the extent that you are ready - on these issues. The Hospital of Santorini was founded and started operating in July 2016 by the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the government of SYRIZA. Since then, almost four years have passed. The hospital, in fact, faced tens of thousands of incidents. It has had significant progress in the development of the opening and functioning of its departments. He has made a great deal of effort, a very serious effort to staff and medical staff and in terms of nursing, administrative and other staff. In fact, in September 2018, the notice for a hundred and fifty eight jobs of indefinite duration of all specialties through ASP was issued. The development of this competition was almost complete until the elections of 7 July and as soon as you came from the first acts you were doing was to freeze all the service changes, and it was still - and almost complete for all the specialities - the placement of these people who had been selected to cover these fifty-eight undetermined posts. Fortunately, in October, the freeze of the service changes took place. However, your idea of the public health system - because there are very great interests in this particular place in private interests - has created punitive conditions and if no immediate measures are taken, the hospital will either end up in private hands or become a health center again, to return to very old times for the island. This island is not only its twenty thousand permanent inhabitants, it is not the inhabitants of the small islands located around Santorini, but it is also about one and a half million tourists and visitors who have made Santorini from the first world tourist destinations. So we understand what a public hospital is supposed to mean that meets the needs of all these people. Right now, the hospital's headless, no commander for almost two months. Doctors of serious specialties, such as surgeons, orthopaedics and others, are leaving one by one. And staff are paid with wage inequalities in relation to the National Health System. The doctors are rewarded with AEMY wages, which you were committed to, and you will be equitable with the wages of the ESS. You haven't done it until today. With regard to other staff - nursing, administrative, etc. - their pre-service is not recognized, and as a result their wages remain too low, unlike what we have done and paid through AEMY and the recognition of pre-services. The world is very concerned. Unfortunately, the interests that fought the hospital are still fighting it. There are particular private interests in this area too. Unfortunately, even part of the municipal council fought the hospital and did not help either housing or finance-sharing, despite the fact that there was the institutional framework that we had voted on. So the situation is that. From that point on, you are ahead of your responsibilities. This morning we learn that AEMY is on the way to a ten-twelfth spot of specialists with a block for a year - 'external doctors', just as it is said - to meet these needs. I wish that this will happen, but we certainly do not agree that this is the solution, because in order to operate a public hospital with this size class, which needs to meet those needs that I have told you, it takes permanent staff, personnel of indefinite duration, as well as with regard to doctors, but also with regard to medical and administrative staff, which, instead of the AEMY administration giving it up because of the coronary that says that it does not have to roam unnecessarily within the hospital and cut the supposed 15-minute break in the day, make sure that it is trained, that the appropriate equipment is provided and that it also ensures that if we have local cases with the whole world that exists, it can deal with them. So you are in the face of these responsibilities. Decide what you're gonna do. For Santorini, if you do not really support the hospital, you will find its people and us against this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u131	I give the floor now to the SYRIZA Member, Mr Constantine Barkas, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, it is excellent and modest how the New Democracy MPs are coming and putting themselves in this bill today. I've been drinking, loose, mild tone. They want the Greek citizens to forget, but we, the Greeks, did what they did and said at the time that they were in the military opposition. Mr. Mitsotakis as chief of the opposition officer said he'd put technocrats in hospital administrations. What did he do? He appointed the president of the NOTE Preveza Commander at the Arta Hospital and the president of the NOE Arta Commander at the Preveza Hospital and how many other things. Also, Minister - not you, but the Minister of Health, I also address the Government - Mr. Gikalayas, your MP in Kastoria, who called for the best man in the hospital? You? The Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilia? Which one of them called to say a few good words about the new commander at Kastoria Hospital? Mr President, we are facing a skin crisis in this coronary. But we have decided not to become a New Democracy, not to become a Mitsotakis, nor to MPs and members of the party which is currently exercising power in our country. Because in February 2019, the then health officer of the New Democracy, Mr. Economou, who is now President of the Committee on Social Affairs, said: "While the cases of influenza are growing and the dead have unfortunately reached thirty-nine, the government has slipped into taking the necessary measures" and then called on the Ministry of Health to take its responsibilities before the citizens, taking the necessary measures. Today with the rule of the New Democracy, where the cases are eighty-three, we, Mr. Xanthi, have not made a statement? That's precisely why we won't work on a health crisis. We're not gonna be like you. Mr President, it is extremely worrying that Mr Mitsotakis has admitted from Berlin that 2020 will be a different year from the one planned and the budgetary targets set in other circumstances may not be achieved because of the Coronary crisis. And it is worrying that the government has already led the economy to a significant slowdown since the third and fourth quarter of 2019. Received 2.8% growth in the second quarter of 2019 and delivered it in the fourth quarter of 2019 to 1% before the impact of the coronary on the Greek economy. The argument New Democracy uses that because of the coronary we have a slowdown in the economy is simply funny, because the first case was announced in China on December 31, 2019, unless in New Democracy they mean that in one day the growth rate has fallen due to its appearance. So the situation in the economy is already exacerbated by the manipulations of the government and the government itself is now facing the spectacle of the impact of the coronary, the effects of which have not yet appeared in the slightest. Since Berlin, Mr Mitsotakis has achieved further diversion from the objectives, stressing that he will need armour. In short, Mr Mitsotakis is faced with the option of not applying the guarantee account announced by the SYRIZA Government to reduce primary surpluses from 2020 to 2.2% of GDP, which would leave a financial space to cover this crisis. We hope that the New Democracy itself will not lead to the lasting solution followed by the governments of the New Democracy in the past by taking budgetaryly aggravating measures for citizens and businesses. The President of SYRIZA convened an extraordinary meeting with sector leaders and collaborators to examine all the data and propose concrete measures to the head of the Ministry of Health and as regards the armoring of the health system and the economy, in order to alleviate the effects of the coronary on businesses, workers and overall on the development of the country. The Holy Synod of the Church of Greece insists that the mystery of the Divine Society does not pose dangers of coronary transmission, calling on vulnerable groups to stay at home. However, the problem is not the Holy Synod, but the State itself, Minister, namely EGEY and the Ministry of Health, who have sole social responsibility for the non-proliferation of the virus and the protection of citizens. In other words, Minister, what you say is what the government says and not the leadership of the Church. Because, Minister, we have now come to an end. Citizens, MPs and ministers for a few bits went out and said they would go to society, exercise this sacred right, but against the proposals of the scientific community itself. In other European countries with just as great respect for Christian faith and religious feeling, the mysteries of the Church have been cancelled, suspended or altered. The government, therefore, and the Ministry of Health, must take a public stand, not sacrificing public health on the altar of political costs. Does the government agree with the Divine Society? Does he agree that the Divine Society does not pose dangers of coronary transmission? We, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled proposals for the recovery of the phenomenon through our rapporteur, Mr Xanthos. Let's go first. Enlargement by the Special Committee for Infectious Epidemiologists and the EGE of the conditions which have contributed to this dispersion with a view to improving the response of the health system. Second sentence. The rapid, effective and operational support of the ESS, aiming at strengthening useful public care links such as hospital TLs, etc. Adoption of all appropriate measures to protect the staff of the ESRB and the EMRP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Intensification of personal protective measures and a reduction of co-concentration in order to halt the dispersion chain and reduce the cases of the community. The systematic and responsible information of citizens, health professionals and political forces on the new epidemiological data and recommendations of specialist scientists and international organisations. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, we will never be a New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u133	I call on the Prime Minister of New Democracy, Mr. Yannis Loverdos, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm glad, Mr. Barca, you won't be a new Republic. You can't even be a New Democracy and try it. I hope that you will at least become a party strong in Officerial Response, so that you can play a substantial role in political matters from the position in which you were placed by the Greek people on 7 July. I was not going to talk about this, but I was given by the dear Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Euklidis Tsakalots, who once again tried to link New Democracy to extreme right-wing phenomena. I would like to remind Mr Tsakaloto that, as we know, the Across Right in Greece was up and developed after 2010, the eras of radicalisation of society due to monuments and economic crisis and collapse. You remember, my dear Mr. Tsakalotos, the squares of the "Indignant", the nuggets against the House, the slogan "to burn, to burn the "Boll" Parliament", the pre-conflicts of politics, the incidents in the national anniversaries and parades. All this led to a radicalisation that to some extent also benefited the extreme right, resulting in the 2012 elections the Golden Dawn entering the House. So it was this warfare that undermined the political system and I regret to say it, but SYRIZA was not a shareholder. SYRIZA invested in this policy to be able to become a party of 4.6%, which received in the 2009 elections, a party of the opposition officer in 2012 and a party of power in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u135	And that justifies being said to be a Trojan horse in Turkey? Do you think I'm a Trojan horse?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u136	I'm ready to tell you that I don't think you're anyone's Trojan horse, and I don't say you're neither a glorious nor a traitor. From me you'll never hear that. However, I am sorry, but many members of your staff are assimilating many of the make news and the misinformation of the Turkish side quite precisely, such as, for example, that people were killed in Evros, who have not been verified from anywhere. That's all I've told you. And as far as the link that you're trying to make, the far right with the New Democracy is concerned, I think it's a big mistake. And why is it a big mistake? Why are you confusing patriotism, patriots, with the extreme rightists and fascists? They have nothing to do with each other. We're all patriots. And the left may be a patriot, doesn't mean that because he's left he's not a patriot. And the left may be faithful, does not mean that because he is left cannot be a Christian. These things, then, when you confuse them, you create a problem in your own party, not in our own party. Because, as you can see from the polls, the New Democracy is very ahead today and is very ahead precisely because it expresses the popular feeling and the popular will at this very difficult and timely stage for our country. And I come to the bill. This bill is being tabled at a very difficult time for our country, because Greece, as it was expected, has not remained unsurpassed by the coronary epidemic that can in the next few months become a pandemic. I hope it will not happen, but everything there shows that we are going that way, and so we must be protected and armored as far as possible. This is not possible to an absolute degree. But we can be more capable of dealing with this throat, which the whole world faces today. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I want to say two things here. The first concerns public persons. The coronary epidemic must not cause us to panic, but to be reassured. We must be prepared to deal with it. It comes and we must all contribute in this direction, first of all, the state and the competent authorities. But in order for state policy to be able to deliver, we must also be responsible. I am referring to public persons, and I call on public persons to pay attention to what they say about the coronary, because many times their public statements can be misinterpreted by the world and to create hysteria, extremes and excesses that are not legitimate at this difficult time. And I am referring to press statements that the virus is made in a laboratory, that there is a vaccine before it, but we will find it with another solution, that we have found some solution that we can give to deal with the virus, that we know what we do in our worshiping habits in the churches. What everyone wants to do, but let them do it privately, not in public, and public persons must be very responsible when dealing with a matter of public health which, as I said, may sometime become a pandemic. In addition, in addition to what the ordinary world says, we need to understand that above all matters what the responsible, EGE, the National Public Health Agency. The only person who is responsible for informing us of what is going on here, no one else - I respect what EGE says - and that citizens are responsible from there and beyond in their individual hygiene and personal behaviour. I am pleased that today I read the statement of a well-known Greek human society, the businessman Mr Marinakis, who said publicly that he has been infected with the coronary. And I'm glad why? Because when this is heard by a person well-known in society, it gives the dimension where it should be, that there is no virus intact, but at the same time the virus is nothing terrible, we can deal with it and any human being affected by the virus is not even rejected by society. Because I'm afraid there might be such phenomena. I would also like to ask the Minister for Education, Mr Kerameus, to take action on another major issue that we have before us. Some schools are closing. So far several schools have been closed, more will be closed, that is for sure. At some point all schools in Greece may be closed. In any case, we must take care of the children who are currently preparing for the pan-Hellenic examinations. The most critical class is the Third High School, because these children are going through a lot of trouble - it's a tough system of pan-Hellenics - and now they're being undermined by this process and their psychology is being undermined. I appeal to the Ministry of Education mainly for Higher Education. The other classes can be dealt with and closed for two months. Third grade's got a serious problem, and they need to see what they're gonna do about the whole Helladic thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis from New Democracy, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days the Greek people have literally lost their sleep. On the one hand, Erdogan exploits refugees in Evros, and on the other the coronary is now in our homes. Above all, temper! We're ready. We all need to be fully informed and ready, state and citizens, to observe hygiene rules, to follow the advice of doctors, to avoid unnecessary movements. With collective efforts, personal responsibility and responsibility, we will be able to deal effectively with the situation. Over the past few years public health in our country has been identified with treatment and little prevention. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Health because, with the bill we are voting on today, we will try to achieve a major change, a change of strategy in health policy. Because what we need is not just a legislative intervention. What we really need is a change of attitude. Of course we must invest in hospitals, of course, and we must have the best health services when we get sick. In difficult times the public needs more than that, beside his illness, his difficulty. On the other hand, let us consider how important it is to invest in prevention, so that we do not get sick or get sick, that is more rare or even more mild. Consider also how important early diagnosis is when someone gets sick. Today, when our country is going through difficult days because of the coronary epidemic, early diagnosis can not only save human life, but also protect them from the transmission of the virus. But in order to gain a situation-prevention culture, we must change our attitude, perception and culture, by mobilising and actively involving health scientists, by transferring resources from treatment to prevention. The investment in prevention does not only have an individual benefit, it also has a collective profit. The more we invest in prevention, the less the cost for the state health system. Fewer patients means less need for treatments, so less costs. Thus the state will save resources and invest them in policies for even greater prevention. With this perception, the world's most advanced countries have been operating for decades. The time has come for our country to adopt it too. Now we put prevention first. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks have lived longer than the average of European citizens, but the time we spend in good health is falling. In addition, we have as a country a leading position in smoking, child obesity, traffic accidents due to high alcohol consumption. late years, poor diet combined with lack of exercise, as well as phenomena of addiction on the Internet have led young people to a wrong life model. Unfortunately, the problem starts from childhood, not enough information from the state about the role of healthy food in the lives of their children, inadequate education at school for the importance of healthy nutrition. Nowadays, physical exercise is limited. We often think there is a lack of time, but in fact there is a lack of mood. Today's children do not have sufficient motivation, and the intense use of the Internet and television is constantly pushing them into a living room. One way we can change this: will and invest in education, education in schools through educational programmes for the adoption of a healthy lifestyle, education in society with constant campaigns to inform citizens, raise awareness of the benefits of healthy food. We are organising campaigns against alcohol consumption, implementing educational programmes in schools that will present the main harmful consequences of abuse. We are strengthening rehab centres and informing all citizens, particularly minor children, drivers and pregnant women. Four are the main axes that we need to follow not only to live longer, but to live better: healthy diet, weight control, smoking and alcohol and physical exercise. This is the challenge of public health for the 21st century. Today we are fighting cancer, diabetes, heart disease and autoimmune diseases. For their ineffective treatment, it is often the responsibility of an untimely diagnosis. We are here today to prioritise the prevention of dangerous forms of cancer, breast cancer, cervical uterus and colon. We'll do that with preventive tests. Do not lose any human life from cancer that can be diagnosed in time. Prevention and awareness of the disease is a duty of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are voting on today is part of the prevention sector. For the first time in Greece there is an integrated National Action Plan for Public Health. In this context, we are also introducing the national vaccination programme for children, adults and vulnerable groups. So we provide for the health of all Greeks. Thanks to our country's geographical location, we have our ally the sun, the ideal time for walking and sporting activities. Our powerful weapon in this effort and the Mediterranean diet. Those who have our origins from Crete, like me, know that the Mediterranean diet and Cretan diet are the same conditions. This has always been the secret to the good health and longevity of the Cretans. The Mediterranean diet can serve as a model not only for our Greece but also for the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. Voliotis has the floor, Mr Maravegias Konstantinos, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u140	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the bill is also a matter of world news. The transmission of the coronary from a country to a country and the mass movements of populations that we see near the Greek border are a combination of safety and public health crises, an external pressure to which we must admit that the Greek Government is responding to organised and dynamically. In Evros the Greek soldiers and police are doing their duty as critics, with the help of the local society and the national militia. So all of them deserve our honor and admiration. Since we are not there to help them, let us say at least a word of recognition of their huge work and thank you, and let us not speak in a way that regenerates nonsense and false news. The locusts of the eastern borders protect our country and all Greeks. So let no one be misinformed, as in the case of allegedly injured policeman by ethnic guards in Evros. Such lies are useless for Greece and all they cause is grief and wonder about the motives of those who reproduce them. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is trying to circumvent these days all these provocations and make its work as efficiently as possible. It does, as Mr Mitsotakis said, whatever it takes to deal with this crisis, this situation. In the public health sector, however, public transport sanitations are made on a daily basis. Public meeting places such as schools, sports facilities, JEPs, utility stations and nurseries are also being disinfected. For two weeks, all sports events will take place without viewers. Finally, there was a suspension of conferences and the operation of the CFP throughout the country and additional supply was made of schools with antiseptics and disinfectants. The commitments made yesterday by Mr Stakoura for financial support from the Krone crisis are equally important for the protection of sensitive sectors, such as tourism, but also for the financing of the HSH with EUR 15 million for the supply of additional necessary health material. However, the most important achievement, Minister, in our country these days was without doubt the zero losses of human beings from the coronary, and we naturally wish to continue so. At the same time, however, we have seen something else very central to dealing effectively with the phenomenon: the demonstration of absolute cooling on the part of Greek citizens. There's no panic epidemic at all. There are no spasm moves. Our fellow citizens with self-discipline and sense of social responsibility are together with the measures taken by the government and are helping the vast majority of cases and their implementation. Mr President, I would also like to make a special reference to the police officers who offer in the security section to deal with the current complex crisis. It is indeed touching to learn that there are volunteer lists asking to go to the border to participate in the Evros operation. Such bright examples of selflessness and love for the country may find imitators in all fields. The borders exist because some are there to keep them. This is the policy of the New Democracy and we are simply deciding to do what is self-evident, but unfortunately not for everyone. I read yesterday an interview by a former SYRIZA Minister who was proud to say that about a million foreigners entered Greece to settle in Europe. I want to believe that today SYRIZA's colleagues will renounce such proud statements or at least not recycle them in such a critical period. That is why we are waiting and renounce, ladies and gentlemen, your SYRIZA officials who are protesting in London against Greece, asking for open borders. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of this bill will undoubtedly help to address major public health situations. Basic tools are early management and strategic planning, for which only one collective body will be responsible: the Committee of Public Health Experts, which is a mixed administrative and scientific body, which will have all the necessary skills to deal with complex situations. Our experience with SARS in 2003, poultry flu in 2004 and H1N1 in 2009 contains many lessons not only for the health system but also for the Greek society. I believe that many of these lessons have been incorporated into this draft law, such as the valid public awareness of public health issues, without undue concern, but with timely awareness of everyone, so that they can protect themselves. A further top priority for the protection and promotion of public health is, of course, prevention and, with the current bill, systematic prevention actions are introduced through the organisation of a series of state programmes for various areas that constitute major innovations in the field of public health, programmes for our country which are essential interventions to protect the future and the health of society as a whole. The most emblematic initiative of the Ministry of Health, which has been missing from Greece for decades, is the National Systemic Pre-Accession Programme, which will be conducted within the five-year National Prevention Programme “SYRUS OF IXIDIS”. We should note here that these actions will be provided free of charge to all the beneficiaries. Mr President, in closing, you will allow me to say a few words as a doctor about the current situation we are facing in our country. First of all, to repeat that the World Health Organisation itself does not think that the existing data advocates pandemic. It is therefore a phenomenon that can be controlled, with very little mortality, much less than the 2% that appears today, because this is not the figure for undeclared cases. Therefore, it is a virion that may develop complications in people of particular age or already in patients with severe underlying diseases such as cardiovascular, diabetes or cancer. In other words, some of our fellow humans will certainly get sick, but few will be cured by that. As long as we protect ourselves and respect our neighbor, everything will go well, as long as we hear only the responsible information of the Ministry of Health and not be lured from unscrupulous rumours or irresponsible disseminations that many would like to hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Maraveya. The reason is now the Kavaliotissa, Mr. Sultana Eleftheriadou, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Maraveya, that the New Democracy should absolve its officials and its first-class ministers, who support the solution to put refugees and young children on the outskirts and those who do not condemn the raids and strengthen the right-wing attitudes and behaviours and then speak of SYRIZA abroad. You will allow me to mention a few words about the eruption of the coronary, which, moreover, monopolies the positions of all Members today. We did not exercise as you saw irresponsible opposition to the government, as the New Democracy did, although functional gaps and failures in the prevention and treatment of the virus are obvious and undeniable. We did not focus on criticism and complaint, as Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Kikilias did in the past, saying that Blonde and Paul are incapable of killing people when we had thirty-nine dead from the common flu and while this year we have eighty-eight dead. I did not see any of the New Democracy colleagues showing the same sensitivity. I don't see anyone dealing with these dead people. Say at least one apology to the two former ministers. I think you should.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u143	A hundred and seventy was last year!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u144	He had thirty-nine dead when these statements were made by Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Kikilia. And we did not do this consciously, because we do not want in any way directly or indirectly to take advantage of the outbreak of the virus, unlike Mr Mitsotakis who was uncomfortable in making statements yesterday and trying to deceive the world to hide the inability of your government's financial staff. Why connecting with the Prime Minister's mouth that the country's growth rate fell from 2.2% in the first half of 2019 on governance SYRIZA to 1.6% in the second half of 2019 on a New Democracy government, trying to connect this to the coronary is fraud and underestimate the intelligence of citizens. I would therefore remind you that the first case in China appeared on 31 December 2019. With regard to the measures announced by your financial staff to finance the ESS of EUR 15 million, I think our parliamentary representative has clearly said that it is too little money and that, if he was a minister today, he would give at least EUR 150 million and it makes sense because we have a terrible outbreak of the virus, as we have all confessed today and we should take the appropriate measures. With regard to the strengthening of the already affected people and businesses, the measures are a little, but a little, fragmented and dubious. They concern only enterprises in the Achaia, Elias and Zakynthos Prefectures that have been closed by government order because of the coronary. No protection measures for enterprises throughout Greece that have been significantly affected in their turnover, but have not been closed. They also concern only employers. No protection measures for workers who have to stay home in prevention, no protection measures for workers who are forced into 'flexible' hours or on teleworking, which your Government welcomes. No penalty for employers who do not guarantee workers the appropriate kind of protection. No provision for workers and workers who cannot go to work because the schools of their children have closed down. As regards the announcement of the Holy Synod on the coronary, the government must take a clear position. The problem is not what the Holy Synod says and the reasons why it says so, but what the state says, namely, EGE and the Ministry of Health, which have sole social responsibility for the non-proliferation of the virus and the protection of citizens. So, in the other European countries, why are church rituals suspended or altered? What's their difference with us? Why doesn't the state dare to unravel this selfishness and get a clear position? Is the New Democracy prepared to risk public health so that it does not cost politically? I hope at least that, in this Chamber, the Minister will take an official position and condemn statements by the Members of the New Democracy who are purely for voting. And here I would agree with Mr Loverdos of the New Democracy who spoke before, that public persons must take care of their statements and I would expect Mr Loverdos to condemn in his speech and the Members of the New Democracy who made statements that there is no danger from the Divine Society and from the meeting in churches. It is not a matter of devotion or faith, it is not a matter of religious or ecclesiastical. It is a matter of social responsibility and we cannot play with public health. What needs to be done in the case of the coronary has told you as much detail as our rapporteur, Mr Xanthos, who really, having deep knowledge and experience, has analysed what the government should do, which I did not hear from your ministers. In summary, we must trust specialist scientists, trust the ESS that lifts most of this situation, renew all workers' contracts, strengthen immediately the structures of primary care, TDIs and IITs, make a proclamation of permanent staff. There is a significant delay in notices launched on SYRIZA. Establish a cross-party committee to monitor the human resources and money support procedures in the ERC. To take measures to protect and inform staff. To draw up an operational plan for at least four months or six months and to open a channel of communication with other countries and the World Health Organisation and prepare a European mechanism for the supply of medicines so that all countries and all citizens have access to it. Regarding the bill under discussion, the bill is certainly not a cut, certainly not a cut in public health. It may be a bill - to the benefit of PPPs, non-profit organisations and private interests of corporate and personal. You are downgrading or even abolishing advisory bodies and state structures. A committee, which a majority of its members will be chosen by the Minister, the National Committee on Public Health, will design your policy and volunteer citizens will implement. In contrast to this, we established the National Council for Public Health, which is abolished, involving high-profile scientists and representatives from the most important stakeholders. You blamed us for the involvement of the NGOs in the refugee issue, which was an unprecedented issue, and the circumstances, which imposed the assistance of non-profit organisations, were crisis conditions, which the state objectively, as I imagine you are now accepting, were unable to cope fully with. And what are you doing with this bill? You are outsourced to civil non-profit companies, i.e. business advisers and non-governmental organisations, a central role for programmes to prevent and promote health. You want to cover with individuals your obligation to provide quantitative and qualitative support for existing public structures and, indeed, to finance private volunteers. Finally, you open the way to PPPs to buy mainly diagnostic tests. Otherwise, the bill under discussion is a summing up of statements and wishes that its provisions once again degrade public health to the detriment of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u145	He has asked for the floor and will be given by the State Secretary for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I am going to refer to the bill for the most part, because the Minister will shortly be talking about the current issue of the coronary, because there will also be an amendment. With this draft law we recognise the crucial importance of the social conditions of economic patients and aim to improve their living conditions. Alcohol consumption, smoking, incorrect eating conditions, habits and choices, lack of exercise and obesity are some of the factors causing diseases and accidents responsible for the greatest number of deaths in our society. With the programs of the "DOXIDE" we commit to intervening with the factors I mentioned above. For the first time a political party in Greece emphasizes the health of citizens throughout their lives and takes the case of primary prevention seriously. It has been said to the committees that this draft law is a report of ideas. I think the term is underestimated. If we do not formulate the framework for public health and the principles that govern it, we risk pedestrianising, confusing public health conditions with hospital treatment and its dimensions, which is done perpetuately and ultimately leads to the neglect of public health. The terms of social, behavioural, environmental and health risk factors, inequality, dependence, engraving, i.e. information, people at all stages of life from pregnancy to the third age, are not simple ideas as we tend to use the terms. It is a mixture of guiding principles that produce government commitments. The recent Astana Declaration talks about commitments to achieve universal health coverage through primary health care and the setting of targets for its sustainable development. And these are the commitments contained in this draft law. The fifth article of the Astana Declaration commits us to the creation of sustainable primary health care, with priority in the basic functions of public health and prevention, such as vaccination, prevention of communicable diseases, maintenance of mothers' health, infants, children and adolescents, promotion of mental health and sexual reproductive health. It was said that primary health care shines through its absence in the draft law, but we have raised it as a basic means of public health, committed to it by Article 2. It was also said that the draft law reflects the Government's idea of a lesser state. This is not the case in the draft law. There is no reduction in State intervention rather than an increase in the efficiency of the State and its role to ensure equal access for citizens to the good of public health. It is internationally accepted that primary health care is the public health vehicle. Since 2014, when primary health care has been transferred to healthcare areas, the infrastructure in these services has not been created to enable it to support public health. Public health addresses in the seven health regions are not another bureaucratic form, but these addresses are called upon to coordinate the functioning of health centres and the numerous local and multi-purpose regional hospitals in the province and other public health bodies. It is a self-evident function, which was absent until today. It was said that prevention was not legislated. We agree that it is not possible to legislate on all action plans in each case. However, we are legislating on how they are developed with some key points - key to their implementation. The first point is the objectives expressed in measurable indicators, and the second is their budget. This is the only way in which action plans are made sustainable and not just wishful. It has been said that we have received the National Strategic Health Plan. Yes, we received it, but how useful a project is if it has not been costed or contains indicators to assess its effectiveness. The programmes referred to in Article 4 for pre-subsistence control, exercise and nutrition, pre-natal control and reduction of harmful alcohol consumption, as well as the treatment of smoking, are programme commitments by the Government, while their necessity is substantiated by evaluations of international organisations specialising in the field of public health. The OECD report highlights the lack of systematic screening. According to statistics, female tertiary graduates had almost all been examined for cervical cancer, while almost half of those who had not completed secondary education had been considered. The percentages in breast cancer are corresponding. Also, prevalence of risk factors such as smoking and obesity are much higher among those with lower educational levels. All this shows that these programmes provided for in the draft law favour more vulnerable groups of the population. Corresponding elements in the draft law show our commitment to reducing inequalities and universal health. There has also been reference to non-governmental organisations. Does anyone claim that in recent years they have not acted such organisations in the field of health? And, of course, they do take bureaucratic approvals in some cases without a rational distribution and evaluation framework for their actions. In particular, on page 12 of the National Public Health Action Plan, handed over to us by the previous political leadership, it states: "With the help of UNICEF, the World Health Organisation, the European Union and non-governmental organisations, the vaccination coverage exceeded 80% of the population mentioned above", while on page 14 it states that "the country's excellent scientific potential has cooperated with international organisations and valid NGOs in order to significantly improve the level of social care". What were the valid non-governmental organisations? Have criteria been established? We do not pretend that we are not seeing them, but we are laying rules for the sake of transparency and for the purpose of effectively shielding public health from the actions of such organisations. We know that many health centres and other primary health care bodies are carrying out public health activities on a smaller or larger scale and we welcome these efforts. However, public health policy must be horizontal, that is to say, for all groups of the population in such a way as to mitigate the consequences of inequalities in terms of socio-economic healthmakers such as poverty, unemployment, disability, gender and ethnicity. This is what we are seeking with the organisational reorganisation of public health services, the equal treatment of people, by providing programs according to their needs, loyal to the vision of Spiros Doxiadis. It is indeed touching to listen to the Major Opposition in discussing this law in the committee responsible to recognize the values of the visualist original modernist Spiros Doxiadis, who are advancing this draft law. It was remembered that the greatest enemies for health are not microbes, viruses, or cancer, but poverty, ignorance and exploitation of man by man. That's what Spyros Doxiadis said. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the Secretary-General.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Great truth, indeed historically, historically, the fight against poverty and development has been achieved in countries where per capita income is increasing, that is, countries where policies of freedom of the economy have been implemented. There is no example anywhere on the planet, and that is what the government is doing today. The New Democracy party is proud of the great decisions it has made for the country and for the great people who, with their active presence, honoured it, such as Spyros Doxiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law reflects our conviction that we must respond to a public, modern, fair and effective health system in the needs of all citizens. We are also addressing all citizens and leaving no one behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u147	Let's go back to the list. Mr. Neocles Cretan from New Democracy, Lakkos octakosaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to speak less than predicted, in order to ensure that in the emergency situation in our country with the coronary epidemic, we all have to adapt and adapt procedures, including parliamentary procedures, to reduce the risk of spreading. So it is, and this is a prevention measure, which this bill also deals with. Ladies and gentlemen, on the road to the upgrading of public health, we must take firm steps. That is why we are bringing this draft law, which essentially defines actions and sets a strict framework in which we will gradually be able to rationalise the way in which it operates and create a more effective vehicle for public health. The final objective is common: Prevention at all stages, i.e. primary, secondary, tertiary. It has dominated, when we talk about public health, to think directly about dealing with disease, treatment, rehabilitation. This is a misconception, because public health means prevention at the same time, and it is so timely that this concept in our struggle is limiting the effects of the spread of the coronary, which at the time makes it fertile to take action such as to strengthen the structures and procedures of prevention. The bill is strict and proposes substantial processes for identifying and controlling the costs, costs and origin of costs. It proposes a structural reorganisation of the framework in order to be able to prevent and tackle them more effectively. Although we could accept that it is centralised, it is both effective and effective, since the experience of the last fifteen years since the adoption of the Kaklamani bill, which was in the same direction and logic, shows that it is necessary to coordinate procedures. To date, there has been a lack of information on the functioning of structures and infrastructures. Examples? Firstly, vaccination: would it not be more effective if there were a central organisation to better and efficiently inform the citizens? Sprays: Would it not be more effective if there were a central check on how many sprays are carried out, when are they done, where are they done? Municipal doctors: No one knows well how many and what doctors they operate, if they have how much budget they have to carry out their duties unintentionally toward their citizens. Wouldn't it be more effective if there was a central organization for them? There's a lot more, of course. In fact, we are talking today about tools for organising, coordinating actions, updating, preventing and dealing with them. I think that we are on the right path to push public health forward, a step closer to international standards, in a situation of matching the directives of the World Health Organisation, which is necessary in a globalised environment where common challenges, such as the coronary epidemic today, also require common prevention and treatment measures. So we are progressing properly and in a spirit of method. In closing the short, because of a coronary, I would like to ask the Civic Opposition to stand up to the circumstances regarding Turkey's unnecessarily attack on our borders. Without wishing to teach you a lesson, especially from the Step of the House, please get a common national attitude to Turkey's provocation and to side with any ideological sirens. It is particularly worrying that your officials are moving unnecessarily on the Erdogan line, considering the nationalistic task of the Security Councils to ensure our borders, which are European borders and that, because if an epidemic, such as that of the coronary, threatens human health, there is another epidemic, that of nationalism, which seriously harms our country's national and fair proposals. The story will tell you and it will judge us strictly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u149	Thank you too for keeping time. We continue with New Democracy and Mr Athanasio Lippi from Volos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is more timely than ever, although it has been tabled long before we understand the scale of the problem with the coronary. Because in relation to all illnesses and even more to contagious ones, the key to success lies in prevention. Today's bill implements the New Democracy's plan for a modern analytical preventive action programme, absolutely necessary to shield the health of the population. The draft law under discussion sets out the basic framework within which all the relevant bodies will operate. This is an attempt far wider than what we have seen up to now, and the new provisions include cross-sectoral interventions and aim at a global protection of the health of citizens. The core of the effort lies in the five-year National Public Health Plan, which gives guidelines and sets the targets. The specific action plans are defined on the basis of the needs of each municipality and region, but also on the basis of specific categories, such as HIV treatment, hepatitis, psychosocial disorders, relief, etc. The role of primary health care, especially at the level of vaccination prevention, for non-transmission of communicable diseases, care for mothers, infants, children and special care for mental and sexual health is given. The role of local government is upgraded in this new action programme for the direct access of the population to structures close to each citizen's residence in the municipality or region. In a country such as Greece, where the health system is primarily revolved around hospital care, it is necessary to implement more intensive actions for free prevention of the population. The National Prevention Programme ‘DUXIDIS STRUCTURE’ is set out in three axes: Firstly, primary prevention by actions taken prior to any disease, vaccinations, smoking cessation, weight reduction, alcohol consumption reduction, exercise, healthy nutrition. In this context, systematic checks are provided for observance of health provisions with emphasis on school canteens, updating the physical education course, working with the LAGs to create sporting programmes for people of all ages. The widespread consumption of alcohol by adolescents requires immediate and active measures, and this bill provides, among other things, for intensive checks at the place where drinks are made available to minors and more stringent penalties for those who violate legislation. Secondary prevention for the early detection of a disease that is not clinically visible with actions such as pre-symptomatic cancer control - we all know that many organ cancers by 50% or more are prevented, for example, by mammography at forty, cognoscopy at fifty - the assessment of cardiovascular risk, the National Systemic Prenatal and Perinatal Control Programme. And thirdly, tertiary prevention with physiotherapy after strokes, relief, psychosocial integration and rehabilitation for those who need it. The new Directorate for Public Health set up in the RAGs has an important role to play in the interconnection of all bodies and organisations in regions and municipalities. The Committee of Public Health Experts will be an important scientific, advisory and supportive tool of the Secretary-General of Public Health, made up of twenty-one members, specialised scientists in each health sector. Following the overall treatment of public health as a very serious issue in need of broader coordination and cooperation, a Interministerial Council for Public Health is set up to implement the National Health Action Plan. This overall effort presupposes cooperation between all actors, some of whom are EGEY, OKANA, KETHA, the Child’s Health Institute, EOF, the Pasteur Institute, and others. Today's bill sets out the method and rules needed to coordinate all these actors and to create a reliable network of preventive public health. However, there is another important point: the new national action plan is quite costly with the intention of increasing public health expenditure in order to reach the European average. The government has constantly demonstrated the seriousness with which it is dealing with public health issues. The way the Ministry of Health has handled so far and the government's spread of the coronary is indicative of how effective the state mechanism is, when there is proper coordination and early intervention. The establishment of a new different culture is the first call for each of us to think about its responsibilities as a citizen. The first step was taken with the full and absolute implementation of the anti-smoking law. The government is leading the collective care of the citizens' physical and mental health so that fewer people can get sick. Of course, it is the beginning of a complex process which, however, is necessary to give the citizens what we owe them, not just more years of life, but a more qualitative, healthy and creative life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, too. We are going to the south, but we remain in the New Democracy and I will give Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou the floor from the Prefecture of Ilias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the public health system takes place at a time when the world community is facing a pandemic caused by the growing cases of coronary in many countries, eighty-nine of which are in Greece on the basis of the latest announcements. And in this crisis and emergency, the global scientific community, the state health systems, medical and nursing staff, local communities and citizens themselves are being tested. And allow me only two phrases, ladies and gentlemen, before I pass the bill under discussion. In the face of a situation that is evolving from day to day I would like to ask all citizens and especially my fellow citizens in Elias to follow the instructions of the state and, above all, of the experts. There have been complaints to ignore the security rules. Anyone who does this should be aware that it is taking an irresponsible and unacceptable attitude that endangers our fellow citizens. We should be clear that we cannot accept or return such behaviour. In such a situation of crisis, like the present situation, no one was able to ignore the directives and the safety rules. These critical hours should be held responsible and cool and not extremes and panic. We must not let the virus completely overthrow our lives and everyday life. I would also like to praise the huge struggle that these hours give the medical, nursing and rescue staff of the two hospitals in Elias, the Tower Hospital and the Amalada Hospital, the hospital managers, the administrative staff and all the health agencies and services involved. Indeed, a titanic effort is being made with a sense of responsibility for the whole medical and local community, in order to limit the spread of the koruna to the population. As a government, we have to strengthen this effort, as there are deficiencies, and there are doctors who have been put into their house arrest because of the virus. For this reason, I ask the head of the Ministry of Health for immediate support to doctors, nurses and rescuers of the EKA. This is necessary in order to address the threat and to protect our fellow citizens by keeping the public health system in Elia upright. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis we are facing from the spread of the coronary demonstrates why we should be alert as a state. We need to ensure, not only through a national action plan, that we meet as a national health system in crisis situations and that any disease or threat arises, but also through our ability to upgrade the prevention sector, focusing on public health actions and improving primary health care. Our aim is to get away from the practice of a complete hospital system that imposed overinvestment in hospital services. Instead, our priority is to gather all the actions of individual public bodies, as well as social capital under common supervision and coordination. This is how we ensure the best possible availability of resources and the distribution of actions among the most operational bodies. This is what we are doing as a government with this bill, creating the conditions for the organisational restructuring of the existing public health service network and the uninterrupted functioning of the interconnection in order to effectively address the cross-sectoral needs of public health. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to focus on some of the innovations introduced by this bill. One of these is the National Prevention Programme “DOXIDE”, which is part of the National Action Plan for Public Health. This programme includes public health actions, which are provided free of charge and directly to citizens in the fields of primary, secondary and tertiary prevention. These actions emphasise the risks to health and, of course, prevention is completely intertwined with information. In this context, I would like to emphasise the particular importance of strengthening actions and interventions to raise awareness and inform the student population in the context of national health education. Of course, the need for information and, by extension, prevention is not only found in the education and information of pupils, but in all the social groups. In this direction, this draft law contributes significantly with its specific framework for reducing the risk factors, such as obesity in children and high smoking rates among adults in Greece, but also with its individual forecasts, such as the electronic database for information, health education and primary prevention. I would also like to say a few words about the importance of the National Action Plan for Public Health. It is an action plan that has specific targeting, measurable indicators, budgeting and proposed way of covering it. The concept of quantification of the objectives introduced by this bill is extremely important to ensure the proper use of public resources, transparency, cost effectiveness. At the same time, it is particularly important to operate an interministerial public health council to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan for Public Health, as well as to resolve relevant issues of a multisectoral and cross-sectoral nature. Because it is not enough to set up and legislate national action plans, but also to implement and monitor the development and implementation of these plans. We are doing this as a government, not only for the present national action plan, but also for the whole of our national actions and strategies. Therefore, since the establishment of the national action plan, as well as through the creation of a social capital section in the field of health, the establishment of a special register of Greek and international voluntary organisations, the establishment of a management directorate in health regions and the setting up of a national committee of public health experts, we are combating the time-consciousness of fragmentation of public health services, and we guarantee common supervision and multi-appropriate decentralisation. This will improve the effectiveness of our actions. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a little reference to the role of local government bodies. I do not think anyone in this Chamber will disagree about the need for more active role and more responsibility for local government in the field of public health. This is our objective, as is the case with decentralised state governance systems, where decentralisation of services is intertwined with their effectiveness. With this draft law, we therefore put this necessary framework through a comprehensive national strategy that will gradually strengthen the role of local authorities by bringing the citizen closer to the services and by upgrading the national health system of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. Mr. George Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, public health challenges are multiple, both at national and international level. These involve outbreaks of diseases that can be prevented by vaccination, such as measles or diphtheria, an increase in reports of antibiotic-resistant pathogens, an increase in obesity and physical inaction on the effects of environmental pollution and climate change on health, as well as multiple humanitarian crises. Today, in the context of this health ministry bill, we are talking about preventing, protecting and promoting health. It is another health debate which shows us that there are problems, that there are dead ends, that the malfunctions of public health are widening at all levels. The budgetary crisis of the last decade has undoubtedly aggravated the grim reality that we are all facing in the health sector. The situation is unfavorable and dramatic. Responsibility transfer is perhaps an easy thing. Anyone could well transfer responsibility and take this action. But I have the opinion that this is not the time for whims and actions like this. It is time to discuss - if the government and all of you want - all of us together the great problem which our country is going through, and especially now, where the threat to public health is particularly visible, where the coronary is here and its spread will continue throughout the world, as it seems, that the challenge for the government and for the citizens is actually just beginning now. There are huge problems in the health sector, which ladies and gentlemen, we all owe, without complacency, without hegemony, without unilaterals to see what we are going to do. Because we have to agree on this: that public health is in crisis. That is why we must stand by sobering and objectivity on this crucial issue, which I think we all have the opinion that it is crucial. First of all, we must separate the big picture from the small picture. I must point out that the great picture is the introduction by the PASOK governments for many years now of the National Health System. This National Health System, as part of the reform and upgrading of public health, as well as the functional integration of public healthcare infrastructures, was intended to provide health and nursing services for the Greek population, through the provision of free services, with new hospitals, regional and prefectures, the creation of infrastructures and equipment, their equal access to them, health centres and the creation of the EAW. This National Health System we dreamed about and this was one of the biggest PASOK offers in our country. It is this system by which, whatever distortions it has had, you are coming today as government and step by step - you are turning it into something different. What did the Gennamas and all of us want to mean by the ESS beyond the explanation and explanation of the originals? 'National', i.e. an integrated system covering the needs of all citizens at national level. ‘System’ means a set of units and services which have an operational link between them and cooperation aimed at protecting the health of citizens. 'Health' means a system which focuses not only on the treatment of illness, but also on the prevention and promotion of the health of citizens with a crown of primary health care. The big picture, therefore, concerns the opening up of hospitals in the region to the provision of care and poor people, who would otherwise die at home, because they did not have money. All objective observers could reach the same conclusion. What's that? That the ESS is the largest social section in post-war Greece. Now let me tell you about the little picture. The small picture is the distortions of the claws, the malfunctions that have actually occurred and emerged in the implementation of them, either because there has been disharmony between will and hard reality, or because synergy interests, populist practices or even management and political failure have been allowed by the government leaders in question. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of a country's health system must be to ensure and improve the level of public health by preventing, care and treatment, with a final aim, of improving the quality of life of the people. This bill creates a structure of bureaucratic, centralised and dubious efficiency. Most questions are raised by the implementation of NGOs in the implementation of actions falling within the competence of the State. Actions that could be entrusted exclusively to local government, while transferring resources and responsibilities and providing for the recruitment of permanent staff. But also in primary health care structures for which the government has not yet expressed its intentions. The current draft law ignores the fact that the level of health of the Greeks has fallen due to the crisis and the dramatic decline in health expenditure since 2010 and even for a decade. And without provision for primary health care in our country, this bill has content that seems to have no impact. Thus, the forecasts for the National Action Plan for Public Health are at risk of staying a report of ideas, a firework, a "days" mechanism, on the other hand. Ladies and gentlemen, our society needs as ever a public health system that meets the needs of modern times and the challenges that this entails. Because in public health systematic effort and collective action are necessary to prevent the sources of risk and the spread of diseases. Because in public health honesty is worth more than hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, too. The reason is now Athens Constantine Zachariadis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the country is facing a great difficulty. We have an epidemic in progress. It is very likely that there will be a public health crisis. It is clear that we have a drop in psychology and a huge difficulty in the economy. The afflicted Greek people after the ten years of economic crisis and social marginalization now have to deal with this. And the big question is how much crises the country can stand and how we face these crises. Not with fear. Not with panic. He needs a plan, he needs realism, and we need to tell truths. So that we do not have a fear and panic we need seriousness to reporters, scientific documentation in the media, not gossip analysis, not 'I think', 'I know', 'I think', intervention by the National Broadcasting Council, a brake on nonsense and beliefs, a plan to prepare hospitals and the truth in the world. Strict compliance with the rules so that dispersion can be reduced. That is why we need a public and a strong health system, not a depreciation, underfunding and abandonment, which has been systematically followed for decades. That's why we need doctors and nurses as a priority. We'll have a very important impact on the economy as well. All these ten years the Greek people have made terrible sacrifices. We have an economy that obviously has its weaknesses. And don't think there's going to be no conversation because the economy from 2.8% in October, November and December went to 1% instead of going to 4%. That's what you're gonna have to explain. We have a troubled society, too. So it takes a support plan so that we don't go back too many years. We need immediate intervention. Here, too, we need responsibility from everyone. You see what our opposition is doing. It has nothing to do with you at critical times, Minister. That makes perfect sense because we have other routes and, in my opinion, we have more morality. The country at this stage needs consensus, consultation, open communication channels, proposals and solidarity. Not by hatred, not by division, and mainly not by patriocapathy. That is why it is disgusting - and I would like to denounce it here at the Step - it is immoral politically, it is divisive, it is out of place and time, it is disgusting to the cohesion that Mr Petsa's statement needs. The statement that SYRIZA operates as Erdogan's Trojan horse. It is disgraceful that in a phase like this, we need open channels of communication, you are once again telling us traitors. Like last year you said that we exchanged Macedonia with the pensions. Really, now on this visit Mr. Mitsotakis made to Mrs. Merkel, did she mention anything about it? In other words, we have not at least heard anything about concrete pressure measures on Turkey. This statement, therefore, by Mr Petsa, must be rejected by every democrat-democratic MEP, by every democratic citizen. This statement must be rejected and revoked not by Mr Petsa himself, but by Mr Mitsotakis himself. If he does not, he adopts it and becomes the Prime Minister of the division, the one electionally said he was coming to unite. But we're different. We are a responsible patriotic Left. This is our route. And see the difference of ethos. Tsipras says on Tuesday "I will put back on a plan that is coherent for the refugee with the beginning, the middle and the end". He comes a few days later, Mr. Petchas tells him we're Erdogan's Trojan horse. That's who you are. This is your size and that is the moral responsibility you have towards things and other political forces in the country. Because we from you do not accept lessons of patriotism. I will tell you what, in my opinion, is patriotism. Patriotism is to leave 37 billion to the fund so that the country can face difficulties, like that of the coronary. Patriotism is the strengthening of the National Health and Public Health System with nineteen thousand people in the years of crisis and memoranda. Patriotism is not doing micropolitical things like you did last year with the seasonal flu and putting back, as we want to do now. Patriotism is that you tend to help the government to reduce surpluses from 3.5% to 2.5% without a coronary and that is rejected. Patriotism is to tell the people the truth, to collide with the anti-Scientifics of the Holy Synod, to embarrass friends, supporters, voters so that the spread of the virus can brake. They are also Orthodox in Romania. And there's a Divine Society. And in the United States the Orthodox Church of Divine Society does. Catholics, Christians, are in the same God, we believe. Take your responsibility. Put yourself on the line. Pick up your MPs who say unscientific nonsense. I would yell and mention names, but it seems from the nonsense that people have not understood the scale of the problem and the challenge facing the country. Patriotism, then, is to put your hands on the epidemiologists who use their capacity to say unscientific things and this is projected by media as news. Patriotism is that you don't think you're more patriot than your next door, and if you think you are, that's what you have to show with deeds, not screaming at it. Patriotism is to be able to create a Greece that is resilient to all sorts of crisis and we handed over a Greece more powerful in 2019, compared to what we received. Patriotism is conflicting with patriots, fascists, toxics. Patriotism is not to level the possibility of dialogue. We are therefore in a position of responsibility from the position which the people have shown us in the elections. But the initiative of moves is not to us. The country must normalise the crisis so that it does not go to a dead end. So, today, the President of our party, the President of the Parliamentary Group has tabled a specific proposal for four thousand new jobs, a thousand people to equip myself and urgently, for the renewal of the contract of staff at the RIS, 150 million more in the Ministry of Health's budget, for counting units from private hospitals if necessary, obviously there is a need for an immediate revision of the country's budget, as the ones voted in December 2019 have nothing to do with the reality, even a revision of the amount of surpluses that exists in the European, global and national economy. So it is time of responsibility, it is absolutely crucial, the time is 'twelfths more than five'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. The reason is Castorian Zeis Gikalaya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u158	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, politics must always be timely. When we want to speak from the Step of the National Representation, we must also respond to current problems and current news and to what concerns us. It is good that SYRIZA's former colleague, Mr Zachariadis, in his view, gave the definition of patriotism. For me as a Greek citizen and a politician, it is good that there are colleagues from all sides of the House who define how they see the meaning of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, to talk about homeland, we must ensure that we maintain homeland. If the open borders policy that you started years before the country took office in January 2015, and if we did not have the interruption on July 7, 2019, with the will of the Greek people, of this your policy, imagine what problems our country would face today. I should like to welcome the approach taken by my fellow Member on the issue of coronary infection, which tends to take the form of the epidemic in Greece, despite the disagreement with several things he has said. I have no problem if you want me to take a position, because it has been mentioned by colleagues who have taken a position on how it is transmitted and we know very well how all infections are transmitted. Mostly it is done by strolling and coughing, with the droplets which are emitted and perhaps by some liquid derivatives of the organism. As far as the Church is concerned, what does the Church and the Holy Synod and the Divine Thanksgiving do if you want me to tell you my personal opinion. In the words of knowledge, I believe that the mystery of the Divine Thanksgiving is more dogma, confidence, faith. Under no circumstances are the dangers of the one that will be associated with the Unharmed Mysteries, of the ones we are here today - we do not know whether anyone has been in contact with the virus or whether they will be in a few days' time - or some events that are political, social, cultural in which we are in. It is therefore a matter of the Church to decide. Under no circumstances am I of the opinion that the state should decide whether to forbid, say, the Divine Thanksgiving from the Church. After all - you are more, if you like, addicts than us of the separation of the State from the Church. So our bill, Minister, is really timely at the current juncture, because it mainly speaks of prevention, defence and promotion of public health. It provides for all those measures to be taken, it makes that organisational restructuring, which will lead to better supervision, better coordination of public health services. Fortunately, after the wars, world wars and civil war, the standard of living and quality of life of the citizens of the world rise. In Greece, the average life was even higher. In committee I have expressed my reservations that the Greeks live on average half a year longer than the average European. Rather, this reference refers to the twenty-seven countries of the European Union and not to the seventeen, of the hard core, as we say. It may be that the former European countries, which we know have a lower standard of living and that is lower average life. So this bill is about limiting the risk factors. All this is well known, but we must repeat it, such as smoking cessation and say to it that we are proud to insist and, if you wish, we have imposed a stop to smoking in public places. Exercise, along with good nutrition, also prevent obesity and the restriction of alcohol abuse. This bill attaches great importance to primary health care, mentions features of a national action plan for a five-year period, which will also be mandatory for structures below the level of the Ministry of Health, the local government agencies 1 and 2 degrees. Every year, the Minister for Health will bring a recommendation to both the Committee on Social Affairs and the House. The important thing in the bill is that the framework for integration into the public health of NGOs is stricter. We have the courage, as we have done, to tighten up the framework for the way NGOs operate in migration and refugee, to do the same in public health, because there have been many abuses. There is a concrete plan for protecting vulnerable groups, whether because of their illnesses, chronic diseases or if you want to belong to the poorest, underprivileged socio-economic strata. The National Prevention Programme “DOXIDIS STRUCTURE” is symbolic and emblematic. We remember the oldest late 1970s the late Spyros Doxiadis was the one who had passed the message, the slogan: "Health or Smoking. Pick.’ And I'm sure he feels right today, because forty years later there is no public smoking. Let me refer in particular to Article 4, which has the primary prevention, which we know, of secondary prevention, concerning the preventive tests to be carried out accordingly on gender and age, in order to have the early diagnosis, because it is better 'extensively diagnosed than healing delays'. I should like to close by referring to the tertiary prevention where, if you like, Minister, I would like to make a bigger reference to the bill. There is also a reference to the explanatory statement and to this article on the relief and comforting treatment of the severely and long-termly ill, but also to the rehabilitation in which we are lagging behind very much in our country. I take this opportunity to refer to something topical. At the moment, western Macedonia has a upset because a hospital worker in Kastoria is hospitalized at the “AHEPA” Hospital in Thessaloniki, after the hospital was hospitalized in Kozani, because he lives nearby. I would like to make a reference to the fact and ask the Government, at this step, for the Rehabilitation Centre at the Argos of Kastoria, immediately to see the organization, to immediately proclaim the positions of doctors and other staff, so that we will soon have twenty-four hours of closed hospitality as a restoration centre in the area, because there are few centres throughout Greece at this level, spaces and logistics infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, please, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u161	He didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u162	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u163	No, Mr. Zachariadis. Mrs Rapti, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u165	Yes, Mr. Catherine. Take a minute, since you're a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, we are now being informed by journalism that the Minister for Health has announced the closure of all education structures for fourteen days. We think it is a right and enforced decision, which should perhaps have been taken a few days earlier. I say this because the Minister of Education said a few days ago that there is no need to close all schools when we saw one case after another. We believe that it is a good decision and sends a correct message to all those who think that they are resisting a social demand to prevent the spread of coronary disease beyond and above any matters of faith, glory or anything else that takes over public debate. I would like to make another comment because my dear colleague, Mr Zachariadis, said something about the proposals made by the Chief of Anti-Population. I read his proposals and his speech. Mr. Tsipras says for suspension of first home auctions. I repeat, we have made a proposal for 15 days and we have been calling for a intergroup committee to discuss this issue. We have not received an answer from you as either SYRIZA or New Democracy. So, if there is interest and sensitivity, since Mr Tsipras proposes a cross-party committee for the four thousand recruitments, let us answer whether we are going to have a cross-party committee on this major social issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u167	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, can I now have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, with regard to what Mr Tzokalayas has just said, the question in this country is not at this moment about what Zachariadis, Gikalayas, Elena Raptis, or the important and serious institutions such as the Church. The question is what EDEY thinks, what Mr. Kontozamanis says, what the Minister, Mr. Kikilias, says, what the officers of the Officers, Mr. Xanthos, etc. When we have to deal with a crisis in the country, we do not ask each other for their opinion. We have a coordinate state, government and institutions. This is how crises are dealt with in all the Western countries, so they are treated throughout the Western world. With regard to what the honourable Member said earlier, Mr Katrinis, I would like to say: Mr Katrin, you know that we in the public speech have been placed on the ground saying that we will demand the widest possible consensus and agreement so that there can be protection of first residence. The rest of our department managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u171	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Zoe Raptis, has the floor now. And I apologise to her for waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsakalots was asked earlier if we consider him and the SYRIZA Members to be a Trojan horse in Erdogan. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of labels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u173	We didn't put on labels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u174	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u175	I personally am completely opposed to the labels, but I also deny your own labels for germans and traitors while our government in 2014 was fighting to get Greece out of the memos. So the question is whether, with your attitude and your opposition, you are promoting national unity if you are promoting homogeneity and national reconciliation in the difficult hours that homeland passes. I would personally expect you to stand in solidarity with the Armed Forces, the Port Authority, the Police and the National Guard against the asymmetrical threat to our borders dressed in the cloak of immigration and, however, we all know it, from Turkey. Instead, Mr Tsipras and many SYRIZA colleagues have attacked the government that it has tried to create a climate of nationalist explosion that encourages extreme forces to take the law into their hands. Extreme powers are the National Guards, Mr. Chakaloto? Mr. Xanthos himself told us that Greece had ceased to be intellectuals, but that the country was a neo-nazi host. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it would not be bad. We cannot be consumed and allowed to practice cheap political confrontation that undermines the perpetual national risk in the field of ideological and party classifications. We cannot, however, emphasise that, unfortunately, it is your youth, the young people of SYRIZA, who have spoken about opening up borders and the need to live with illegal immigrants. It was your youth who accused those who prevent them, that is, all those who fight in Evros, of being fascists. If this is not the same line as the claims that Erdogan made today, who said that they should not close the borders themselves, but we should open ours, who is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u176	So you're answering 'yes'. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Chakaloto, don't interrupt her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u178	You should do a national strategy and a national policy on the issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u179	With a fifth convoy, will you make a national strategy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u180	It is a good question, however, that you are saying all this, and Mr Tsipras himself has accepted that the government has rightly closed the borders and has exposed not only you but also yourself. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, it is the citizens who have responded to the latest polls if the government is right to do so. The citizens decided by 76% that they were in agreement with the government's measures to prevent migrants from coming from the sea, closed structures, the re-promotion of migrants there, and assistance from the European Union. For this reason, 'he speaks the swing'. As far as the bill we are discussing today is concerned, I would like to say the following. This bill comes at a difficult time for Greece, at a time when today there is the major issue of the spread of the coronary and this is in danger of turning into a pandemic with serious economic, political and humanitarian consequences. I will speak a little later on about the actions of the government. First of all, I would like to look at the bill itself and say that this bill seeks to highlight the crucial role of public health in our country, so that our country can get closer to the other advanced health countries where priority is given to public health actions and gradually move away from all this hospital health system, which focuses mainly on the treatment of the disease and not prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur has already said, according to all the valid indicators of the international organisations, the Greeks are living longer than the average of the citizens of the European Union, but the time spent in good health is gradually decreasing. Our country is facing particular problems in the neural health sector, in increasing morbidity, which, of course, after a ten-year crisis is afflicting modern lifestyles, in high rates of adult smoking, in high rates of weight gain, especially in childhood obesity, but also in mortality from non-transmissible diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Given these findings, our party had made an election commitment to a series of actions aimed at a high-quality public health. In the time of almost eight months from the takeover of governance, our Government achieved significant victories, such as the application of the anti-smoking law, the reduction of drug prices in the December price sheet, the planning of recruitment and the staffing of intensive treatment units, the measures we took for the health coverage of refugees and asylum seekers, the dynamic management of the seasonal influenza virus, after a million more vaccinations were carried out this year in relation to 2018 and of course the organisational restructuring of the EKA that we voted on here in Parliament. This bill provides for the drafting of the national action plan, a five-year National Action Plan for Public Health, which will be the roadmap of public health policies. This national plan will be binding on secondary and primary TAs as well as on any other relevant body. It includes public health objectives and means of achieving them, specialising in specific action plans and, of course, it is fully costly, as it aims at transparency and gradual increase in public health expenditure and, of course, entered into a specific code both of the Ministry of Health's budget and of the other bodies involved in its implementation. With this bill we implement the election commitment of Mr.Mitsotakis to establish a National Prevention Programme called "DOXIADES", this programme consists of public health actions, as has been said, primary, secondary and tertiary prevention and, of course, within this programme, plans for promotion of physical exercise and healthy nutrition, reduction of harmful consumption of alcohol, child vaccination, etc. Finally, the national psychosocial integration and rehabilitation programme for people with serious psychosocial problems is also provided for at the level of tertiary prevention. On a second level, this draft law sets out the conditions for the organisational restructuring of the existing health service network and the functional interconnection of individual public health bodies. The bodies mentioned above are set up, namely the Social Capital Mobilisation Department, as the Ministry of Health - and I welcome this effort - recognises the possibility of contributing and the importance of the organisations of civil society and other voluntary organisations in the field of public health. It therefore establishes this section within the framework of the Directorate-General for Public Health with a view to centralising all these bodies and eliminating the cases of overlapping during the implementation phase of these individual actions. This section is responsible for the coordination and support of voluntary organisations, the systematic collection of information on public health actions and is responsible for the conclusion of memorandums of cooperation with voluntary organisations for the implementation of individual health actions. Volunteers who want and want to be able to offer in the public health field and are welcome to do so on the condition that they move in the non-profit context and always under state supervision. In addition, specific Public Health Directorates are set up in the administrations of health regions. In this context, the addresses are responsible for monitoring the implementation of the policies and programmes of the national project mentioned, the programming section of the actions essentially deals with how public health programmes and actions are developed in the area of responsibility, the implementation section of public health actions interconnects bodies, services, voluntary organisations and civil society organisations at regional and municipal level and coordinates individual activities and finally the Public Health Directorates for Health and Public Health of Local Authorities may establish cooperative public health networks for implementing programmes and interventions in the community. Of course, the Committee of Experts we spoke about previously, but also the Interministerial Council, is also set up so that there is in particular a Directorate-General for Coordination and Monitoring the implementation of the National Action Plan for Public Health, as well as for the resolution of relevant cross-sectoral issues. It is very important to say that this committee of experts and the Interministerial Council have a key role to play in cases, as we have today, exceptional and unforeseen areas due to the coronary. That is how it is guaranteed is the possibility that is now more than ever necessary to take emergency measures in derogation from the time-consuming procedures under which it can be disastrous for the population. And I come now to what we heard from SYRIZA. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition once again is blinded by its ideas and is standing again with bumps in front of a bill that upgrades the provision of health services and improves the lives of our fellow citizens. This bill was described as a classic and an attempt to privatise public health. It is also annoyed that SYRIZA is supposedly assigned to non-State structures and officials, as well as to civil society, institutionalised public health services of the state. But, ladies and gentlemen, where did you read these? The Minister has indicated to all the committees that the aim of the bill is exactly the opposite, that is, the objective is to deal fairly with all social inequalities and, of course, to enable all our fellow citizens to share horizontally and completely free of charge and to have access to prevention and early diagnosis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also use the time of my dentistry, Mr President. Non-existent, those who have been beaten in the years of the crisis are a priority for our Government and it is now clear that all individual actions on public health are implemented under the sole responsibility of the Ministry of Health. These actions will also be provided free of charge by the relevant public bodies and by other public bodies. All costs will be covered by the EEA without any charge for our fellow citizens. What this bill makes is precisely to gather all the actions of individual public bodies, as well as of the voluntary society under joint supervision and coordination, precisely to ensure the best possible availability of resources and to allocate actions among the operational bodies. So, once again, the positions of counter-population are unresolved, which likes to see privatizations and anti-social policies everywhere. So no class privilege, no assignment of powers, no privatization. The ESS is and remains public. I now come to the major problem of the spread of the coronary because the first time the health authorities in China announced the emergence of the new coronary strain the Ministry of Health was alerted. The aim of our Government was and remains to reduce and prevent the spread as far as possible. That is why we have acted responsibly in following the experts' recommendations at every step. We proceeded with the adoption of a legislative act to avoid and limit the spread of the coron. The imposition of preventive controls has been introduced at entry and exit points, at points associated with large spreading countries. Moreover, the temporary restriction in whole or in part of air, sea and rail links with large spreading countries of the disease. Yesterday, all flights to and from North Italy were suspended until 23 March. Finally, the temporary suspension of the operation of schools and we have just heard the measure taken by the Minister responsible for the closure of schools so that there is a closure of public meeting places. As you can understand, the correct update plays the key role. And I would like to congratulate both the Minister and the State Secretary for the wide-ranging public information campaign in which he has been unleashed and has been regularly consulted and informed and informed by the public about the correct treatment of cases and the prevention of spread of the virus. In the same direction, the head of the committee responsible, Mr Tsiodras, addressed a strong recommendation to avoid unnecessarily necessary travel and co-existence in people belonging to vulnerable groups. At the same time, there will also be provision by the EEAS to renew the prescribing of patients with chronic diseases until 30 June 2020. At this stage, the latest measures taken focus on protecting vulnerable groups. As part of this principle, further preventive measures, such as the suspension of the operation of the whole country's KAPIs for four weeks, the suspension of conference events also for four weeks, the suspension of all school tours, as well as schools, as well as the holding of all sports events behind closed doors. Finally, the suspension of all cultural and artistic events in enclosed spaces involving more than a thousand people, such as the Athens Semimarathon. Ladies and gentlemen, as understood by this bill, the concept of public health in our country is changing, taking a multi-sectoral dimension and including care, hygiene, prevention and clinical care. At the same time, it lays the foundations for tackling chronic health deficiencies through structural restructuring of the ESS in the public health sector. It is ultimately a bill that strengthens prevention policies and thus ensures for all our fellow citizens and generations that follow better quality of life and timely provision of health services. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u181	And we thank Mrs. Rapt. We're going back to our list. Patricia has the floor, Mr Christina Alexopoulou, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, after Mrs Alexopoulou I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u183	Of course, Minister. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, since the Minister for Health is here today, I would like to congratulate him, both on this step and on his determination and on the measures he takes in the time available and not on the way forward. That is why, thank God, today that we are talking about is the situation that we live in Greece. Many congratulations, Minister, and the decision to close schools. I am sure that at the centre again will be Greek families and public health above all. And I'm sure you will also think about the fact that ten days will be closed up in schools, how parents, mothers, working parents will be taken care of so that they can make it with their little children at home. I'm sure all these days will be solved. Of course, all Greeks will be a little patient about this difficult situation we are facing. The time when this bill is being discussed is therefore of particular importance. Although a modern structure for the protection and upgrading of public health is being implemented, the performance is unfortunately stealing from our country's fight against the coronary, and this struggle is unfortunately tough. Achaea right now we're talking is also in a difficult position. Although cases are growing, the situation is still under control. Citizens understand the scale of the threat and seek protection. The government didn't get to sleep. He showed readiness and immediately implemented measures. As we said earlier, the schools are closing. Public events have been cancelled, resulting in better management of the problem. As we understand, of course, all these measures also have some side effects. The already poor economic situation is getting worse. The focus, business and shops already have a significant fall in their turnover, and of course their obligations are running. The main recipient of this situation as usual is the middle-class again. And where we do what we can as a government, seven months now, to get backwards, unfortunately, events are taking us back a little bit. Also one reason why I wanted to speak from the Step of the House today was because I wanted to note this. In this difficult situation we are experiencing, today's protagonists are health workers. Doctors, nurses daily give an incredible struggle, with courage and stubbornness, against the immediate risk of infection, most in overcrowding. The professionalism and self - disapproval they display are not described in words. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] They are people who receive nothing more than another Greek worker and yet continue to fight night with all their powers. The word'gratitude' cannot render the service offered to society as a whole. All of us, the Government of Mr. Mitsotakis itself, are together. On the other hand, the government is determined to support, as far as it can, those affected by the spread of the coronary and, of course, even this time, it does not stop focusing once again on the middle-class, which New Democracy supports over time, even at times when the country has not been in an emergency. The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Staikoras, announced yesterday measures to assist firms who are forced to suspend their operation. The package includes suspension of VAT on March for four months, suspension of payment of certified debts to the DUs, measures on insurance contributions, monitoring of affected branches of the AUI. Additional measures are already being considered. The financial staff are well aware that other sectors than these enterprises have, or will soon have, a problem and will need intervention. However, economic strengths must be taken into account, because it is very easy to eat and not to give. But what we want is to give even if we haven't. Ladies and gentlemen, the hours we live require action and not a debate. The government's interest in health shielding the country is real and without purpose. His support will help prevent and deal with situations like the one we experience in Achaea and unfortunately throughout Greece today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have asked for the floor. Do you want to speak properly or just about the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u186	First of all, I would like to say that I accept the two amendments tabled in the Minutes. But I would like to use the whole time of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u187	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not think it could be more timely to discuss a draft public health legislation than the most important developments around the world, the result of a very important, huge issue of public health and public interest, the one with the coronary, which has affected many countries around the world. It has a tragic account so far and affects the lives of all of us, so from this point of view we are all fully aware of the importance of having an institutionalised framework for cooperation between the two degrees of local government and the central structures of the Ministry of Health, as far as public health is concerned, with the health regions, so that the country can give answers to issues of major importance, such as public health issues for all of our citizens. We realise - and it is also very important - that pieces of the legal persons of the Ministry of Health had been slandered and beaten up before, and that workers - and I am talking about the former ERIC, now the National Public Health Agency - have gone through a thousand waves, have been brought to justice and injustice. I have said many times that I do not want to go back to them and these are issues relating to the past, to justice, etc. You see an organism, which is a arm of public health, has reacted positively and operates at a time of enormous pressure. Thousands of phone calls, more than seventy with eighty thousand calls are made to the National Public Health Agency by all the services in the country, by all the ministries of the country, by all public and private bodies, mainly by citizens. I think that the National Agency for Public Health and the Ministry of Health and the entire government, but - I want to say sincerely here, from the Step of the House - and the whole Opposition, starting with the Qualification and all others, have stood up to a very critical and difficult issue of public health. As the Minister for Health, I would like to thank you all and everyone for your attitude and your attitude, which I think is honoured by all of us. It is clear that there is no political controversy in public health matters, much less small political controversy. I'm glad to see that - because we're still on the way - they're all soldiers. You should know that this is appreciated above all by the Greek people, who wants to see us in the great crises and great difficulties united. At noon today, these amendments which enable - always with competitive procedures and the emergency - the possibility of relying on the National Health System, particularly on the ICMs, medical equipment and the recruitment of nurses have been tabled. There will be more, if necessary, in the immediate future. I am given the opportunity to reply to the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Tsipras, who was kind enough to call me today and let him know. Although I would like to say that at regular intervals, I inform the former Minister of Health, Mr Blonde, and all the Members of Parliament and whoever has asked me to do so. I would like to say that in the next few years, a similar amendment will come, as far as nurses are concerned, whatever staff are concerned, in order to strengthen the TLPs, IMs, in such a way that they are sufficient for the crisis. And as he quite rightly said - and I agree - I wish that this curve of crisis will not be launched and has a normality and that it will be a dowry tomorrow for the ERC. Of course, I'd like to be honest. I do not understand the involvement of economic operators, surpluses and other economic elements which do not concern - I think - public health and that particular issue. That is why I would like to stay strictly on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u189	Health in the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u190	I understand, Minister, that this is your question of the economy. I'm trying not to get that part involved in public health. I think it is two different things, although I must say that the government has, with the Prime Minister first, given the aid of EUR 15 million to the Ministry of Health for the first phase of this crisis. There is a commitment from the Presidency of the Government and the Prime Minister for whatever need they need to meet the needs and health systems, but also from citizens in all these elements, which includes a crisis. Let me just say two things about this bill of public health. I won't need all the time, Madam President. I have repeated many times - and we also discussed them in committee, it is nowadays - that, although many and serious efforts have been made - I accept it - in particular, with three legislative initiatives - in 1997, 2003 and 2005, with the Public Health Initiative of Nikita Kaklamanis - a large part remained in theory, rather than actually being implemented. In a violent way, as you can see now, we are being forced by the conditions of this part of public health and by the urgency of implementing it in practice. And that requires coordination, cooperation and understanding under a framework of all. I therefore think it is legitimate - and everyone understands it - that, with regard to the country, its regions, its municipalities, the various services which have public health officials, be they doctors, be they paramedical personnel, be they infectious scientists, epidemiologists, specialists, nurses must have a homogenised and organised structure that can work effectively in the emergency. So a part of it is the National Public Health Agency. Another is the EMCDDA - EMCDDA. In my opinion, Minister, where there are many centres, there is probably more problem than is solved. If I remember correctly, you also supported the last time we discussed here in this House, in the previous bill, in the combination of the EAW and the EAW. With regard to health regions, I would like to tell you that the work that is being done is huge. That's why you see there are reference hospitals. The Heads of State with their associates can and will cooperate with the managers of hospitals and the directors of clinics and all the employees of doctors, nurses and paramedics who, on behalf of all their government, thank them through my heart for the effort they have done so far. I am sure that we will continue the effort, trying to help and support the whole world, all the citizens in this very difficult trial that our country is going through. So the possibility of an organisational framework which is not represented and independent of the former Minister or the current minister or the next minister is institutionalised and demarcated so that it can function in the public health crisis or the needs of public health, I think it is very imperative. One can make partial criticism of this bill, as far as it is concerned with the individual details, what may exist, what cannot exist. I think, however, that everyone now understands in the most emphatic way the importance of such a draft law on public health and the way it should stay and parts of it should be applied so that we can always predict, organise and deal with major public health issues. I shall conclude by saying this: it is obvious that a very great effort has been made in the country so far in order to be able to deal with the situation in the first stage. You see that there are neighbouring countries where the situation is completely out of hand. This is a very great challenge for all European countries for how they will continue and try to deal with whatever weapons each has. Obviously, we are asking for and want solidarity. We are working with the World Health Organisation, with the ECDC, with the European Commission, with the other Member States, with the other health ministers and of course - and I am pleased that this has been recognised by the Civic Opposition and by Opposition in general - with an excellent group of top scientists in the country, epidemiologists, infectious scientists, specialist scientists, from the whole range of university, academic and medical advice and on the basis of their advisers, the directives that we follow faithfully, have reached this point. But it's still on its way. I would therefore like to end by asking everyone, each and every individual, individual responsibility, responsibility and seriousness for the time, which is coming and in which we should try to discipline the experts' instructions. We must listen to scientists, specialists, doctors and be able at all times to appeal to them. I would also ask that this Step be taken into account by all of us in our personal hygiene. I'm talking about washing our hands. I am talking about the vulnerable groups that are our main concern, because they are mainly affected by these viruses, whether they are our elderly fellow citizens, or vulnerable groups of fellow citizens who are immunocompromised, who have had transplants, who are at an advanced stage of heart failure, CFP etc. All these people must be careful. On the days that come, when weather is one and another, to be able to stay at home and make sure they're not close to other fellow humans who have flu symptoms. To contact their doctor. To communicate with the ETA. We should all be instructed by the experts. Be careful and understand that public health and therefore the health of our neighbor, especially, of vulnerable groups and the elderly, is not a game. I would like to ask all of us to take a close look at this and to show that we are a country, a state of pride, a state of pride and freedom, obviously, but that can be disciplined in basic health directives, so that we can ensure that these vulnerable groups are as safe as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Today, in the serious events taking place throughout Europe, throughout the world, we are called upon to vote on a bill, which is timely as ever. We are called upon to vote on a bill to prevent, protect and promote health and also to develop public health services. The reputation, as we all know, saves. Prevention, however, needs support. Prevention is a large part of our public health policy. And of course, the structure, structures and actions of public health are directly linked to the Primary Health Care, which we need to strengthen, we need to strengthen for two basic reasons. Firstly, to dismantle the major and central hospitals of Athens, Piraeus and, secondly, the fastest, more flexible, direct service of citizens. Seventeen articles are an attempt to modernise and strengthen public health. We are moving radically towards an organisational restructuring of public health, through the General Secretariat of Public Health, through the establishment of a Social Capital Health Mobilisation Department, through the establishment of a Directorate-General for Public Health and Quality of Life, where it will monitor the implementation of our policies. Of course, we are immediately moving forward in the preparation of a five-year National Action Plan for public health which defines individual actions and programmes to promote the health of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks we have all been concerned, others less, more. I think that the guidelines are given by experts and given in the most appropriate way. They deserve many congratulations to everyone, to all workers, to nurses, administrative staff, doctors, specialists, to the Ministry of Health and to all ministries who are making a great deal of effort. They contribute to dealing with a recent virus, with consequences not only on health but on the economy, and we must not forget it. In this case, however, in these critical times, the government showed its immediate reflexes on an unprecedented issue, such as the coronary one. But our temper and, above all, proper information is required. Two amendments were tabled today which the Minister for Health accepted a few minutes ago. We have seen communications from both the Minister of Labour and from the Minister of Finance. Of course, in the next few hours, we will also see additional measures to deal with this serious issue. With the bill, however, what we are discussing here today is coming and taking action and initiatives for primary, secondary and tertiary prevention. We are taking action for interventions, for various types of cancer, but also for assessment of cardiovascular risk, for physical treatments in the case of a stroke, for example, and for care for patients with disease-threatening health threats. The National Programme for Prevention of DOXIDIS, established and part of the five-year action plan for public health, includes public health programmes for the benefit of citizens' health. I have listened very carefully to the position of the former Minister, Mr. Xanthou. I listened very carefully to him saying that he was under the circumstances this bill. And I ask him a question. Is it inferior to the circumstances of exercising a public health prevention policy? Is it inferior to the circumstances to carry out an information and awareness campaign for vulnerable groups and, much more, parents? We have seen the concern of parents and parents' associations about the events that have taken place lately. In any case, are health issues for political confrontation these critical hours, or are health issues for making proposals and improving our everyday lives? Are you convinced, Minister, Mr. Xanthi and Mr. Polakis, that by leaving on 7 July from the Ministry of Health you have left all of them with oil? Do you disagree with the seventeen provisions of this bill, and do you think that this bill is inferior to the circumstances? Do you disagree, for example, with Article 14 of the draft law on the transfer of public health doctors from supervised bodies of the Ministry of Health and Organisations to the Directorates of Public Health of the Ministry of the ICT? Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth mentioning also the Interministerial Council of the Municipality of Health, which is set up to coordinate the National Action Plan, to monitor the Commission of the National Action Plan, to monitor the implementation of the National Action Plan, but also to resolve issues that will arise. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the implementation of the National Action Plan for Public Health also means strengthening health centres. That is why, today, I tabled to the Minister of Health, Mr Kikilia, dear Secretary of State, Mr Kontozamanis, a specific parliamentary question, asking that the Centre for Health should operate 24/7 and operate throughout the week and be substantially strengthened with staff. Such issues and such issues that the SYRIZA government has failed to resolve in the past four and a half years exist in many regions, throughout Greece, but mainly in urban centres. We must put an end to the suffering of the citizens. We must build public health by seeing ahead, seeing the future needs that arise. In short, we need to give more weight to public health, much greater than what you have theoretically given. It is common belief that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has high on the agenda public health and this bill, although it has few articles, has a lot of substance to implement the necessary health reforms. For these reasons, I therefore call on colleagues from all the wings to vote together in favour of this draft health legislation, for the future of health, for these difficult hours that Europe is experiencing, which is being tested in our country, and we must all be united. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Houseary Representative of Mera25, Mrs Bakadima, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if he read a man who does not live in our country today's bill, he would honestly think it is about another country. Indeed, by reading it, I have found many points with which we too could agree. For example, as three pillars of the draft law on how the Ministry of Health thinks the health system, there is a reduction in risk factors, a change in lifestyle, and the economic and social environment, and a reduction in inequalities. Below are the basic principles of public health policies to prevent, protect and improve the health of the population, especially of vulnerable groups, to mitigate the effects of inequalities caused by socio-economic factors and to formulate public health promotion policies. Honestly, I do not think anyone can argue with these principles. But there is somewhere to end the pleasant surprises, as we have the first reference to an element that seems to love, but not to be implemented by the government, the diffusion of excellence and health. With this report alone, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot remember the positions of parties, but not always excellent, members of the New Democracy in positions of governors and deputy hospital administrators. Personally, I have asked myself on several occasions, under parliamentary control, to fulfil the post of Deputy Governor of State Nice from a New Democracy candidate to the previous parliamentary elections in Piraeus, still awaiting the Minister's reply. It would also make sense and useful to draw up a national action plan aimed at bringing our country's public health expenditure closer to those of the average of the countries of the European Union, as stated in the explanatory statement, if the 2020 budget had not been adopted, a further EUR 37 million reduction in the financing of hospitals. At the same time, we have a reduction of around EUR 4 million for primary health care with a stable level of funding to the EEAS, with any financial flows to it due to increased insurance contributions to be borne by citizens. We also consider that it is hypocritical, at the very least, that the Ministry of Health publishes that it is legislating on improving the benefits of health structures, when two contracts were ratified by parliament a month ago by the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, increasing the scope and amount of donation, as well as introducing PPPs under Article 3 of today's draft law aimed at providing services and performing projects. Unfortunately, however, we believe that the whole of the legislation under discussion is paving the way for exactly the opposite of what it promises. Instead of improving the situation and alleviating inequalities, it lays the foundations for privatising public subordinated hospitals, starting with the introduction of PPPs and continuing with frequent reports within the body of the bill to private entities. In fact, privatisation is being baptized "improvement", although on the basis of the neoliberal logic of the ruling party, the two concepts are identical for it. The New Democracy seems to forget that government care for the health of citizens is constitutionally guaranteed. And although Article 21 of the Constitution has not been revised, it seems to be being circumvented in practice. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law dissolves what has been achieved in the public health sector over the last few decades, including private individuals in such a neural sector, since apart from the PPPs we have the status of new hospitals as legal entities under private law. This will be based on the government's costed five-year programme which will improve the situation, as set out in the explanatory statement. The New Democracy is trying to trade health instead of, as it should, make moves to improve the situation and address the real problems, such as hospital subscribing, infrastructural deficiencies, antiquated equipment and much more. Instead of going to the recruitment of permanent medical and nursing staff, we are dealing with subscribing with conclusion of annual contracts which, at most, have been renewed for another year. Instead of supplying equipment, we repair, when this is done, backup machinery and "false" handschair heating problems, insulation problems. Of course there are also exceptions to our country's hospitals to have an extremely modern equipment, but that is precisely what the exceptions to the rule are. A characteristic example of Volos General Hospital. But these exceptions are due to our charitable fellow citizens who support the country's donation hospitals. The majority have huge problems with basic shortages even in bedcloths, not to mention drug shortages and bandages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Madam President. At the same time, planning an appointment for an examination is desperately slow. We all remember the case of the elderly in Chania, who was appointed a gastronomical test two years later, in 2022. Unfortunately, these problems will not be solved by privatization and delivery of health to individuals or by transferring basic responsibilities to charity. All citizens, all people living in our country have a right to health, and that is unnegotiable. The current situation with the spread of the coronary has demonstrated the need for a genuinely national health system, as well as the basic shortcomings recorded in the existing one. We believe that a bill aimed at improving and developing health services cannot leave outside the structure issue. And no one can legislate about the services, without providing for effective treatment of subsidization, when the cost-cutting and health funds have actually been legislated. Over the last ten years, the economic and humanitarian crisis and the imported policies of sterile austerity have dismantled many rights and gains of our fellow citizens. Let us not deprive them of one more, that of access to health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u195	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis has the floor now for seven of SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Because things have been heard about open borders, for ethnic traitors, for Trojan horses and others, I will be allowed to submit to the minutes a post by journalist Roger Cohen of "New York Times" published on September 23, 2015. He says among the others: "More than two hundred thousand refugees, mostly from Syria, arrived in one Greece this year on the brink of the collapse, with half of them getting off in Lesvos. People were found in a country with 25% unemployment, the income of which fell by 23%." And it continues: "Greece could serve as an example of a state capable of turning to violence against the mass influx of foreigners." And it closes: "I asked Alexis Papachela, Director of the newspaper "Kathimerini", what could Greece teach in the world? "That dignity and humanity can be preserved under the most unfavourable conditions," he answered." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the prevention and protection of public health at a really difficult time for our country, on the basis of developments both in refugee - immigration and the spread of the coronary. As regards the refugee issue, the recent period has taken shape, due to Turkey's provocative and extortionist attitude, the governmental handling and uncontrolled action of the far right-wing extremists, especially on the islands of the eastern Aegean, whose inhabitants are lifting all the weight of the refugee crisis. Human values are being tested, such as respect for diversity, solidarity and the right to life. Politics and tolerance are being tested, but also the coherence of the political system towards Turkey's provocative and dangerous policy. In this critical situation, our parliamentary representative, Mr. Tsakalotos, shows that an effort is being made to use the global refugee problem and the recent crisis at our borders with Erdogan's challenges to mock the ears of the far right audience and create internal enemies. Your ultimate state proves to be antisocial and inefficient. For this reason, the designations are returned to those who trust Erdogan most by former Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and considered that Greece is causing Turkey to the Aegean and, unfortunately, belongs to your side. However, it is the issue of coronary, directly linked to the bill that we are discussing. It concerns the health of the population, it gradually spreads with increased dispersion and at risk of getting epidemic dimensions, according to the forecasts of the World Health Organisation, while the effects on the global economy are becoming alarming. It is necessary to raise awareness of the country's population in order to avoid the speed of spreading in Italy, to strengthen measures according to the spread of the virus, without being tempted against the economic interests which are certainly affected, but also to prejudices that endanger the health of vulnerable groups of the population, by invoking unscientific views. We need increased alertness, support for personal and means of dealing with the virus from which the resistance of the public health system is also being tested, as our rapporteur, Andreas Xanthos, has said in detail. Media also require information to the public on the basis of the Ministry of Health directives. The attitude of the Officerial Representation, as stated by our rapporteur, shows the responsibility and seriousness with which we are facing serious issues. Unfortunately, you did not demonstrate this seriousness and it is exactly what differentiates us. The bill, which is referred to as "DOXIDE" - an excellent scientist, who, although from a different political point of view, was a strong supporter of the public health system, adopting the view that man is not at risk from viruses and microbes as well as social inequalities - does not respond to ambitious plans - objectives for prevention. The approach must be holistic, with specific timetables and resources. Prevention is not an abstract concept, nor has it as a starting point a particular age, nor does it exclude groups of people with economic or other characteristics, as was done with refugees, from whom you have denied access to the public health system, with a risk of creating healthbombs. The pre-natal control necessary to prevent malfunctions that are correctly included in the bill will be empty for a couple who will not be able to respond because of costs in the current economic circumstances. That is why free control is a one-way road. In particular, childbirth, developmental nutrition, education and, above all, primary schooling, where, in conjunction with the family environment, the individual's personality is shaped, must be a priority. You will allow me a special reference to primary dental care and its contribution to prevention, with a view not only to oral health but also to health in general. Unfortunately, only two words are mentioned in the bill. I would remind you that the SYRIZA Government had proceeded with collaboration with the Hellenic Dental Federation in planning a primary dental care programme to about eight hundred thousands of primary school students, an initiative that did not go ahead because of the elections and apparently is not included in government planning. The contribution of dentistry to prevention must not be underestimated. A series of diseases manifested in the oral cavity as primary outbreaks, e.g. oral cancer, leukoplasties, Adamantiad-Behcet syndrome, occur as symptoms of more general illnesses, such as diabetes mellitus or HIV. I would point out that oral cancer accounts for 2% of cancers worldwide - three hundred thousand people per year - and it accounts for 85% of the head cancers. Let's not forget that the mouth is the "register" of the body's health. Finally, Minister, I would like to remind you that on 20 March it is World Oral Health Day. The Committee on Social Affairs of the European Parliament has an obligation to give this event 'offenders'. As far as you know, we have tabled a proposal to the President of the Committee on Social Affairs and I hope he will implement it, as has been committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, we need to make a few things clear. First of all, the enemy of our people is not the uprooted, refugees and immigrants. The people of Europe are the perpetrators of their uprooting, that is to say they are the perpetrators, not the victims. The Government of New Democracy has very great responsibilities, because it has left the scope for horrific, criminal and dangerous regional organizations and groups free of charge to Evros and the islands. So the government must immediately put an end to the unacceptable action of such extreme right-wing and nazi groups. The government must cleanse the National Guard from fascist and nazi elements that exist. Of course, it is the European Union's policy that turns our country into prisons of human souls. The only way out is precisely to go against the current, namely to abolish the Dublin Regulation, but also to abolish the accustomed joint declaration by Greece - the European Union - Turkey, in order to remove thousands of refugees from the Greek islands and bring them directly to their countries of destination. Under the responsibility of the European Union and the UN, the asylum procedures are now being organised in Turkey, both at its borders with Greece and at its borders with Syria, and the direct movement of this world into the countries of destination. Secondly, we are discussing today's bill at a time when the juncture is the coronary epidemic, which also highlights the nakedness of the National Health System. This is not only a result of today's government, but a total of all the governments that have produced the previous years, over the past decades. This is an epidemic which is also the legend about the substance of a global capitalist economy in slowdown. The triumphs that it creates in the anemic development of the global economy are obvious. The trembling created by the coronary epidemic in the weak recovery of the Greek economy again are evident. Otherwise, the government a little while ago claimed that the course of the Greek economy was shielded. The cause, of course, is not the coronary, nor the epidemic. The cause is much older, much more serious and much more acidified. It is the overcompensation of the huge funds, which shape these conditions of slowdown and the event of a new synchronised capitalist crisis. Second element: The coronary epidemic also highlighted the tremor that exists in the Greek Health System, which is characterised by the deterioration of hospital units, which some operated below the safety limits before the epidemic broke out. This is the result of all governments, with the huge underfunding of all public health and health structures in general, with the enormous shortages in human resources, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and others, but above all, health trades show this. So health has become individual responsibility by collective responsibility that the state had to provide for free to all Greeks, without discrimination between their standard of living or their origin. So all governments have created a public health system that is weak and not only is weak, but is well behind the needs themselves, but also the possibilities offered by technology and science. This very weak public health system is also the time-consuming result of all governments, with no exception, because you have all accepted the policy that health is a commodity, the European Union's own-responsibility policy for access to health. Today political forces opposing the New Democracy are even resorting to the bracelet to shield their opposition logic. They are messing with human pain, "You dead, both dead and dead," and the costs that need to be spent to counter the impact of the coronary epidemic. Seventeen million the government as the first dose, 150 SYRIZA, 3.5 billion, and it goes on to say. Soon we'll get out and auction who'll offer most of the money. However, all this expenditure is certainly not a priority. They're horizontal, they say. So, what does that mean? It is a disguised form of aid to capitalist enterprises and not to the needs of the people. The Communist Party of Greece opposes this logic. What do we say? That dealing with the impact of the coronary epidemic cannot be a horizontal matter and, of course, it cannot be reasoned that what we can do is do. No, because you don't really do what you can. Why do we say that? Because undermining public health and human resources infrastructures was an option. It was a time-consuming choice of all governments. This time-consuming option was not made in the name of government debt management due to the crisis, but it was done in the name that health was individual responsibility and, of course, in commercialisation and business action. In order for the private health sector to develop, the public health sector had to be undermined. On this basis, his logic was 'what we can do'. So, in the JRC's opinion, there are priorities. These priorities define them, firstly, the armouring and protection of public health, all the necessary measures to be taken to shield and protect public health, and secondly the support of the people's family. These are therefore the two priorities set by the JRC in terms of immediate protection measures against the epidemic. What's that practically supposed to mean? It's very simple. It means the following measures: firstly, all the closed ICMs, which have been opened all these years - and the previous ones and now - remain closed, but at the same time all inactive health structures also function. For example, the Thorakos Hospital in Patras, which was closed by the government of SYRIZA to merge it with "Agios Andreas", a modern infrastructure that could play a decisive role today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u199	Not modern, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u200	Modern infrastructure, of course. Of course, modern infrastructure, because 2m euros had been allocated to renovate the buildings and to have hotel equipment. Medical equipment, of course, is another conversation. So he could play an important role today, Mr. Xanthi, in this case, rather than transfer the entire hospital to a clinic of three rooms, all and all, at the hospital of "St. Andreas". Secondly, there must be and ensure the 24-hour operation of primary health care units so that the hospitals who receive a huge burden can be dismantled. Thirdly, there must be an intake - directly - of permanent full-time and full-time staff at all levels of health. Fourthly, the permanentisation of all medical nurses and other staff working in hospitals - today - in flexible forms of employment, whether they are contractors, or subsidiary doctors, without conditions and without any condition. Fifthly, safeguarding supplies of the necessary supplies from the state of supplies of consumables, as well as reagents and workshops that they need. Sixth, protection measures, masks, antiseptics, soaps, the state must provide them for free, for the entire population, so that the shamefulness that you all know about it can be struck, but no one can say it. It is a disgrace that has to do in how people can buy these and, secondly, in supplies to hospitals and record this shameful gain. Here too, the fact that the public health system is stripped or how huge the lack of protection measures - and it is not only Greece, but the European Union as a whole - is seen by the fact - for example - that all masks come from China. There is no production or 80% of the necessary drugs available in the European Union are produced in China, not to mention ethyl alcohol, etc. you are forced today to go to an amendment on the seized quantities of ethyl alcohol smuggling. Even this cannot guarantee the urban state. He can't guarantee it, not because he can't, but because he doesn't. Because the division is degrading, where these businesses are going to go to capitalist profit. That's right, Minister. Capitalist profit is declaring. Couldn't the masks be done here? They could. Why can't they? Because elsewhere it's much cheaper to get. It's simple. It's much cheaper for the employer to make more profits. Much more expensive people get. And in times of crisis, a simple crisis, an epidemic, it suddenly seems that the system's nakedness is falling apart and you are now forced to go into emergency measures. So here's why we say you can't plan. You can't plan because there's the anarchy of the capitalist market. This anarchy of the capitalist market determines the profit. You cannot go against profit because you are political servants of capitalist profit. That is why there is this nakedness of the situation. Seventhly, to ensure the medical monitoring of all pre-schools, nursery, children's and schools, military units and refugee structures. Eighth, protection and preventive measures at forced assembly sites must be clear and must be the responsibility of the State and the government, for example in public transport. But also in adorable space, Minister, you have a responsibility, because the protection measures define them as science and not the faith, with all due respect for the faith that everyone can have and are your responsibility, because that is where they meet people of great age mainly. Secondly, measures to protect workers. Already the anti-government measures are before the gates. Some businesses are being implemented because of the koruna epidemic and the pressures imposed on them to abolish collective agreements and a number of issues, such as homework, the compulsory use by the worker of his normal licence - are being forced by businesses - the intensification of businesses. In this respect, the government has so far been deaf. It has not taken any measures like this, and it is now compulsory to take measures. All schools throughout Greece, from nurseries to universities - and we're talking about nursery stations mainly or municipalally - closed. Who's gonna keep the kids when they're both going to work? Will these workers, who must keep their children, or workers who, because of forced measures, do not have the krone extended, stop the operation? Will they ensure that they have the remuneration and full insurance cover for as long as needed? There are no measures of this kind in any of the government proclamations. Finally, as far as the bill is concerned, our rapporteur has been mentioned in detail, but at best, Mr Minister, it will be a wish that will be left on paper and nothing more. Because all these heavyty health prevention, protection and promotion of health are just words without meaning, without any substance at all and you understand it very well. Why is it that who will question here that public health is related to human reproduction conditions? And who determines them? Does the working conditions not define them when a jungle exists, with intensified work accidents, in the name of guaranteeing capitalist profits, without hours, without human working conditions? Secondly, are they not determined by the possibilities of satisfying the people's needs? And where are these possibilities of satisfying the people's needs? Poverty, impoverishment for large sections of the population that cannot meet basic needs and are increasingly widening the gap between satisfying the needs and the capabilities of the system. Thirdly, it is related to infrastructures that can only improve the living conditions of the people's family. Not only do they exist, but they refer to the bells in the name of cost-benefit logic, from earthquake shielding and anti-nuclear protection, to anti-military works, from free spaces and sports spaces, free for the new generation. Not all of this means improving the quality of life, so also a shield of public health itself? Sure. But what are you doing? The whole opposite. And from this point of view, it is clear that all this will be left on paper because it is responsible for the worsening of public health conditions that capitalist gains and not the weaknesses of any governments. Because it is what determines what will happen and how it will be done. His capitalist gain and needs. So you are hypocritically talking about promoting health. And this hypocrisy is even greater than the fact that you subjugate the health case to individual responsibility rather than to public collective responsibility. So business action, commercialisation, the logic of infrastructure costs, the reduction of public health expenditure over time, the privatization of hospitals, the burden of the people, either directly from their pockets to pay the medicines, or they can go to some health structures or indirectly through the burden of insurance funds, is a clear result of class separation in terms of access to health. I shall conclude, Madam President. As long as capitalist profit determines the terms and conditions then there can be no case for upgrading public health. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Agerinopoulou has the floor from New Democracy. Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to dedicate my speech today to all the families in our county who have lost one of their familiars because health structures in Elias are not enough, neither in pandemic conditions, nor in normality. We don't even have the basics in Elias. Neither ambulances for a timely stay nor full-time hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a topical issue of health prevention, protection and promotion and the development of health services. At the same time, we have the occasion for our country to be tested by the SARS COV 2 virus, which causes COVID 19 disease. To date, both the health system and the whole society has responded satisfactorily and we do not have a large spread of cases in the country. Our thoughts are those in whom we wish rapid and good recovery and to the members of their families to whom we wish good power. We're standing next to them. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief in my introduction. These days our concern is to help the basic needs of our fellow citizens as Elias Prefecture is the law that is mainly affected by the coronary. Many of our fellow citizens are hosted in the reference hospitals that now have increased needs, while the tower and Amalada hospitals have many shortcomings in logistics infrastructure and nursing and medical staff, for which we are warmly waiting for the Ministry of Health to respond immediately. We also expect the government and the European Commission to respond to the economic needs that have suddenly been created in the local economy, focus, tourism and agricultural production due to limited traffic mainly to the municipalities of Penios, the Sun and Tower. Local society is in quarantine with respect to vulnerable population groups. Let me make it clear that for purely random reasons in the Elias Prefecture against other prefectures the largest concentration of cases found to be positive to the virus is presented. At this point I would like to draw attention to the fact that the EGE followed the instructions set out by the World Health Organisation. These instructions were given to visitors to the Holy Places who returned home to our county, while they had informed that they had suffered. None of them made a tragic mistake and our fellow citizens who are sick today should feel bad. The lack of governance, in terms of making the right decisions, has been observed in the World Health Organisation and must be attributed to it, whether or not it should be attributed to our fellow citizens or to the national system. But perhaps days ago, the World Health Organisation did not have the proper documentation to give stricter instructions, as it was necessary to deal with a virus that evolves in a pandemic. This example brings us to at least two conclusions. Firstly, Greece will still have to adopt stricter measures which all citizens will have to follow. Secondly, there is the need to create an even stronger national system and a more effective national public health strategy. The new public health strategy that we are introducing today with the bill is important. Preventive medicine, new structures and strengthening existing structures as well as the recruitment of additional medical care and administrative staff are necessary. After the end of the memorials that led us to a health system that was weak, with staff and structures that were not sufficient to meet the state's needs, the first systemic health bill, which is necessary to strengthen all levels of health. We should all adopt together the new concept introduced by the bill as the result of a holistic approach, as it suits scientifically in the field of protection of public health, based on the prevention and treatment at the root of factors which are burdening public health, such as smoking which is a high factor in the creation of volumeological diseases and the deterioration of the natural environment and climate change. Tomorrow at two o'clock at noon, the Committee on the Environment will further analyse the issues of the impact of climate change on public health in order to make further policy initiatives. Please all of you and, above all, the Ministry of Health to monitor our committee. The new public health strategy introduced by this bill must be implemented immediately, with a view to re-establishing the conditions of guaranteeing our public health and quality of life in our country. That is why you have our full support for this important request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Davakis has the floor now, who is the last speaker in today's process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the opposition, major and minor today, all day long, I can see that it is actually being perpetuated permanently by ideological obsessions and claws. The draft law presented today by the government, which will have a vote of confidence, is a bill which has neither party bumps nor ideological claws nor all those that make up the Left's account. This bill is ideologically challenging: the service of the Greek citizen in the top issue he faces, which are the issues of his health. Because health and, in particular, health when affected in the low economic strata is the issue that must be dealt with by any party, and in particular by this popular party, which is the New Democracy. Health issues are primarily political issues. Not ideologically. It's political. As far as the political approach to an act of political implementation and government implementation is concerned, it is the responsibility of the government and, in particular, that government. This draft law, therefore, shields the health system and gives a better perspective on prevention. Prevention is not in itself the case. Prevention is all that process and process, so we don't get to the incident. Badly lies, we must say that our people - and their governments are not fooling ourselves - are not progressing or having special successes, I would say. I hope and believe that this government is clearly an exception. It's not about supply. We are not procured, but we are mostly diligent in health matters too. As regards the coronary, which has monopolized the interest of the House, I believe that we have done well so far. Don't make a fuss about it all the time. Both in terms of prevention and in terms of general organisation of structures and in matters relating to incidents, we have done well. Of course, the enemy of good is the best, and we need to be constantly at work and at readiness. I am sure that this is happening - and it is demonstrated by the Ministry of Health's political leadership - so that we do not address what a country, such as Italy, is facing, which I would say from structures and from issues relating to health care, is at a much better stage than the Greek one. In any case, what we have done so far - and here I must congratulate the Minister, as he has done, on the attitude of counter-population in a harmony and unanimity in dealing with the problem - is in the right direction and fills us, if you like, with an optimism. I also believe that what we need to see at the moment, on the basis of this bill and a small telegraphic intervention at the beginning of this bill, is the issues of prevention. Prevention, of course, as I said before, is our way of life. Prevention is all called 'life culture'. Prevention is to wake up in the morning and take a walk, since you can and most can do it, which gives you a better organization of your condition, a better position and attitude of your organization, which is the "dog", I would say, as the philosophers of our lives say. Prevention is to avoid smoking, not to smoke. Remember the anti-smoking law. Prevention is avoiding alcohol in large quantities, prevention is not being obese, prevention is non-substantial life through walking. All this composes a lifestyle. I have already heard my colleague from the Communist Party. In fact, the bills do not solve problems or change from one day to the next. We may be dealing with the problems by bills, but we must, with laborious efforts, but also a change in our way of life, make the bills and laws that we are voting on here. And these are not solved by the bills, despite the ambitious efforts of this government. I am pleased that the National Prevention Programme is given the name of one I would call the pioneer of medical science, a pioneer and one of the first ministers of the Caramanli Government of Transnationalism, Spyros Doxiadis, a pediatrician who actually had a great and serious approach to health issues and started health issues early in the 1980s. I believe that there will be a good prospect in this regard. Also, the financial patient is the one, who from the first incident of his life will be the one to be affected. The independent finances have no problem, he'll leave for the outside, go to America and solve his problem if this is solved. Those who join the hospital corridors, the ranches - which unfortunately continue even this is another kind of conversation that we are going to have - are the people's family. A family that needs to continue all of us, mainly as a government act and you as a party motto on the left. A lifetime the Left moves on the basis of these principles, exploits the problem to create a account. We are solving the problems, and this is also demonstrated by this bill. It was called upon to be an exhibition of ideas. It is not a report of ideas, based on what I have said on the perception of the application of the various issues. I would also like to refer for a moment to the pre-cautionary control provided for in Article 4. Indeed, this is very important because it creates a relief, if it is articulated and implemented, of the existing health system. Because all that we say about prevention gives a breath and a restraining of the many incidents in the health system, which is afflicted and burdened. I would also like to say two things about the existing structures of my region, which are also flagrant cases of the general environment of the health system. As we all know, the seven health regions are mainly responsible for health centres and other health structures, other than hospitals. I believe that there are two issues which you need to see, Mr Minister, and on the occasion of the bill I would like to tell you. It is the Kastorea Health Center in northern Lakedeimon, in the area north of Sparta, which was inaugurated in the 2015 election period and which is in a dramatic situation. It looks like only the sign that exists there. I know you know, I'm not asking you to resolve this in the seven months that you're government, but I have to bring it here as a matter. You need to see it with a special approach, given that it concerns not a particular community, a town, but a group of villages, which are indiscreet from many conditions, weather, geological, etc., despite the development of the road network lately. As well as the question of strengthening the Molas hospital. I am not talking about the hospital in Sparta, because the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, as we all know, in four years it gives, donates to Sparta, in the hometown of Stavros Niarchos, a new hospital. The Molanta hospital, however, is in great need and we will also discuss it in private, a CT scanner. Three hundred and sixty-six incidents of the Molas hospital a year, without taking into account the health centers of the area, are leaving the Molas hospital and going to CT scan in Sparta. You realise that there is an urgent need to have a CT scanner in Molas. Minister, I believe that this bill describes intentions, describes a new conception of the health map, which new perception is primarily, as has been said by many colleagues and by me at the outset, prevention. If there is prevention in our way of life, in the way of our diet, in the way we move as organisations, you understand, as is the case in many other Scandinavian and non-country countries in the world, that all these incidents that make up the health profile of the Greek citizen will be reduced and much better for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. I would simply point out that the words 'and other provisions' are added at the end of the title of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask which of the special speakers or the rapporteurs wants to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u208	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u209	I, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u210	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Xanthos, Mr. Poulas and Mr. Vartzopoulos. So let's start with Mr. Poula. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, the intention of the Ministry of Health's political leadership to relaunch the prevention sector is a good principle. But our philosophy is quite different. We want to support and strengthen existing public health structures, you recommend new and fragmented. We are in favour of decentralisation of powers and resources in the field of prevention, you are central. We are in favour of organising and operating a dynamic primary health care, you remain silent. It has already been eight months since your government took over power and we still don't know what you're going to do. Do you want the TOMYs to exist? Will you support the civil and non-civil health centres? What about the institution of family doctors? What are you going to do about all this? The coronary is the problem of the days. He threw you into trouble. You're currently running behind situations. Cases are growing every day in our country, which means that more measures should be taken. You have decided to shut down schools and schools throughout the country as a precaution. This measure is in the right direction to limit dispersion. But that's all that's enough? What are we to do for other meeting places? What about the courts? What about the catering shops? Passenger ships, CBELs, spaces, public services that meets people. Even the churches. It is not possible at the time of recognized prestige scientists hitting the alarm, we can reassure citizens of arguments that do not stand neither in science nor in the logic of churchity. You lose your credibility by adopting these logics. The measure of the church in open space would be a way to improve some things. Think about it. Also, what measures have you taken for the economic life of the place? You see what happens next to Italy. Because the coronary blow to our economy is not as strong as Italians, it can be disproportionately large. We stress the need for real support for businesses, but also for workers who have to face the consequences of an evolving epidemic. It goes without saying that concrete and substantial liquidity support measures and elementary restoration of the damage to professionals and businesses must be immediately announced, particularly in the areas most affected. We have not yet heard the interventions of the Ministry of Tourism in order to support tourist and hotel businesses, especially in our islands, in order to limit the fear of tourists and to restore the cancellation of reservations. There is no plan to restore the loss of income in the affected enterprises, in the long term, as the consequences of the coronary will be evident from now on, but also after the national economy critical period of summer. Above all, the government has not demanded the reduction of the primary surpluses that we will find immediately before us as a country in order to liberate the crucial budgetary area for the adoption of comprehensive and effective measures, much more since the growth rates you have achieved as a government have not justified the expectations you have created as opposition. Do not glimpse, public hospitals have taken over the main burden of diagnosis and care of heavy cases. Immediate support is needed without delay. The medical care staff of the ERC hospitals will reach the limit of exhaustion shortly. We therefore believe that you should look at the same approach for them, as you did for the EGE employees for whom you are increasing the overtime to three hundred sixty hours for a semester. This right-wing metro must be extended to nurses, paramedical staff of the ERC, who raises the greatest burden of this health crisis. In particular, nurses should normally also belong to the category of heavy and unhealthy people. Is it right, then, to take advantage only of EGE officials and not to take advantage of these nurses and the paramedical staff of hospitals? I wanted these brief words, Madam President, to say. We shall vote for the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Xanthos, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Madam President. I will try a little bit to sum up the substance of our interventions today in the debate throughout the whole day. I repeat that we consider this bill to be absolutely inadequate to cause a serious institutional reorganisation of the public health services in the country. I think that was also the result of the debate that took place at the hearing. It is no coincidence that it does not have the widest possible social scientific and political support to this bill. Apparently, it doesn't shield the public health system. We're not talking about that. There is indeed a wish for prevention, and about, from the positions I have heard fellow Members of co-population, it is like telling us that for the first time this draft law is inaugurating prevention policies in the country. To be a little in touch with reality. I claim that the most important prevention act in recent years in the country was L.4368/2016 for universal coverage of all citizens and especially uninsured people and their access to free and reliable medical care. This was the most important act of preventing and protecting public health. The most important act to prevent and protect public health was vaccinations in Roma camps, they were vaccinations in Idomeni, they were vaccinations in Moria, they were vaccinations in all major camps in open hospitality, in the CYTs, everywhere. So we prevented the refugee problem from becoming public health and no health bombs from being activated, as were many people at risk from the start of the crisis. We also hear you say that prior monitoring is now being instituted. Pre-symptoms are integrated, we have said so many times, in the Single Health Regulation of the EEA. The protocol provides for the free use of high-qualification and technology diagnostics normally carried out for all citizens. As was rightly pointed out, there were also two new tests that were not costed and were not compensated by the EEAY and which have been integrated in recent years, such as digital mammography and ultrasound level 2. So we will be in the'residents' principle as a whole, voting against Articles 10, 11 and 12 concerning the abolition of the RIS and the replacement of it by the National Committee of Public Health Experts, we will vote in favour of the two amendments, because we want to give a consensus mark to emergency needs. But here I want to highlight two things: Firstly, what my colleague Mr Seal said earlier. We must ensure that the EGE staff are paid overtime and accompanied by a clear political statement from the Government that there will be no unpaid overtime work for any worker in the EHR. People of the public health system will be charged and charged already. It must be quite clear that doctors, nurses and any staff employed overtime will be paid in time, normally and without discounts and cuts. Secondly, we have not heard a political commitment, which we have expected, that there will be an intergroup committee to manage transparently the emergency needs for recruitment and material supplies. I think this also safeguards you, Minister, and not just the political system and the credibility of the institutions. Now, as far as the daily life of the health system is concerned, because it is good to call for responsibility, coolness and consensus, and we obviously need to have an absolute commitment to scientific documentation, social responsibility, without discounts and no relativisations by anyone - and I think that too many have been mentioned - but the crucial issue is the effective operational support of the public health system. So let me say that so long now that the epidemic outbreak in the reference hospitals is on the way to me, I am anxiously conveyed by colleagues that they do not see anything changed, nor has their budget been strengthened. I'm going to open a parentheses to say that I keep the Minister's promise that 15 million is the first dose. There's nothing to do with it. In our view it is ten times twice, grosso modo, the need to deal with a possible illness of a significant proportion of the population in need of hospitalisation. So there is no increase in the budget, there is no adequacy of personal protection instruments and materials, it has not been enhanced with any additional staff, there is no operational plan, no accurate knowledge of how this specific case management will be performed. I think that you need to see this very well, to upgrade the effective role of the OSH, the competent coordination bodies at this time, so that we can strengthen the availability, which I think is available to the human resources of the OSH, so that it can respond to this crisis without being at risk of burnout syndrome. I think we need to strengthen the morale of these people right now, not only in good words, but also in practice, with additional resources, human and material. I'm closing up and clarifying this. We have said that we will behave with absolute seriousness and responsibility, as the management of a critical situation imposes. However, this does not mean dissatisfaction, ladies and gentlemen. It doesn't mean we're just watching what's said as a simple viewer. It means control, contact with the human resources of the ESS, which we will concentrate at this time to have an accurate picture, to highlight needs, gaps, omissions, oligories, perhaps errors, and to call for a climate of positive contribution to addressing or surpassing them. I think that in this climate and in this environment we can have a more optimistic version and perspective for this great public health crisis that has taken place in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u215	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Varzopoulou, rapporteur of the New Democracy, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to restore some truths in my view by trying to be as brief as possible. Watch out. This bill here, soon, is a framework law, a law that sets targets and even personalised targets, sets out the methodology of quantifying these objectives, is a bill that allows consent so that many years can be maintained by creating a real basis, a real basis for dealing with crises, such as the current one. It is not the purpose and purpose of this draft law to discuss the very important issues that need to be addressed for primary health as well. No one disagrees about this, but it is not here, it is not the subject of this bill. We have also told the committees, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that public health, prevention and, in the modern sense, there are many primary health systems. There can be with your own TOMYs, for you better, for us worse. There is certainly in the commonwealth with Beverage's family doctors, but there is certainly also the Bismarck system of private associates and paid by the Treasury of Doctors in Belgium, Austria, France, Germany. It is therefore sufficient to agree today on the main objectives, the methodology, the quantification of the objectives, to what we need to do. How this is going to be done is something we can agree on or not to agree on, but to discuss it at another really necessary time. Second point of misunderstanding. You say that through this bill we seek a smaller state. Where does that come from? Look. Of course, we want a smaller state in very specific areas. Don't we want a state businessman in the economy? But where does it turn out that there is a mood of our own - not just of us, of all the members of the European People's Party - against the development of a substantial public social state? Where is this here? Did you see it anywhere on our own initiative? We were the ones who at very difficult times in the Samara government - Venizelos, we legislated with the minimum guaranteed income. Where do you see this here? You see there is in Belgium, do you see there being in the German Christian Democracy? You see there's a republican in France? Nowhere. The Undersecretary said quite rightly that what has happened over time is that there should be a involvement of some non-governmental organisations or civil society organisations, as is, in any event, also called for in pro-active actions. We are strenuous about this, and we are creating a register which is intended not to allow these organisations to engage in activities in this area, which do not have a minimum guarantee base. It has been said, colleague of the Change Movement, your opinion, that this is a bill that is centralised. Yeah, it's centralised. He's got aggregates because he needs to control the cost. That is, what we are spending on having control, having a propheticity, should be worth every euro available. On the other hand, however, with the creation of public health departments in the OSH, there is a real effort to decentralise all this effort to have certified and co-ordinated and controlled procedures for all these scattered social services which are currently working at the service level. I'm closing up, saying this. There has been a debate here and rightly on the National Health System. In fact, the state, if you want a National Health System, is what will raise the burden of dealing with and this crisis at least at hospital level. However, an attempt has been made against us to claim that our aim is to replace the public national health system by speculators. Where does that come from? You will allow me to tell you that I am forty-four years a member of the New Democracy and always active. They never realized that, of course, what I know is that we and many people outside want hospitals better than that. We want hospitals like those of France, Belgium, Germany. We want health first and foremost with doctors, as is the case with Belgium, the Dutch, the Austrian, the German, that sort of thing we want. It has nothing to do with what the Greek Central Right wants, what the European People's Party wants with what you imply. Well, that is why I welcome those who will vote for the bill at least in the first place. It is an attempt to reach agreement in order to have common objectives, common methodologies and from there on we have a long time to discuss and disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u217	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u218	Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Just because the honourable Members referred to the issue of the timeliness of the coronary and, above all, Mr Xanthos, I would like to clarify a few things. First of all, I believe that anyone who is in the position of the government today and the leadership of the Ministry of Health would do their best to ensure the best health services and manage the issue in the most effective way. We were clear - and to clarify once again - that is not the sum that will be allocated to treating the virus, it is an initial amount that was given as emergency funding. The budgets have not changed yet, because there will be additional funding and there will of course also be additional staff and additional equipment. In fact, because, Mr Xanthi, you have referred to supplies, as you will see in the amendment which we have actually tabled with the derogations from the existing provisions, we are trying to speed up the time-limits of competition and tenders always through public invitations so that we can have the equipment we need immediately and quickly. You know at the moment at a global level all states are advancing to supply specific equipment, such as monitors, respirators, intensive therapy beds, masks, protective equipment, etc. A plan exists and evolves not only in terms of staff, but in order to open new intensive treatment units that are still closed and to manage both the light and the heavy incidents that may arise. And this project was successfully implemented in the case of Patras, where the university hospital in Patras acted immediately in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the 6th Health Region and with a specific plan, beds were developed to deal with these incidents and specific instructions were given. Clearly, and we will not leave anyone in the health system unpaid if he works overtime. And I want to tell you, by closing down that there is a certain costing of the needs of which we are going to need. This plan for additional funding is in the competent governmental bodies, it will also be placed in the relevant institutions of Europe. Besides, at European level, if I am not mistaken, on Monday 16 March there is a convening of the Eurogroup to discuss financial measures to be taken by the countries. Of course, priority and emphasis are given to health expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Prevention, protection and promotion of health - Development of public health services and other provisions' is finalised. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixteen articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u221	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u222	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u223	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Prevention, protection and promotion of health - development of public health services and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u225	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-10-S1-commons.u226	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.37' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 11 March 2020 at 10.00' on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Citizens' Protection: ‘Amendment of provisions of Law 2168/1993 (A'147) “Consolidating issues relating to arms, ammunition, explosives, explosives and other provisions”, harmonisation of Greek legislation by Directive (EU) 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 amending Council Directive 91/477/EEC on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons and the adoption of the necessary additional measures for the implementation of the European Commission's Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403” and (b) request for the waiver of immunity.
