ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 22-7-2020, the minutes of the PPP session of Wednesday, 22 July 2020 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on today's topical and urgent question issue, let me tell the House on Monday 27 July 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 936/17-7-2020 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Pavlos Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Delay in the energy upgrade programme of hospitals'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 934/15-7-2020 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Health, on "Excluded Elias from the plans of the Ministry of Health". 3. The Question No 939/17-7-2020 by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Provisions and forecasts on the occasion of an increase in COVID-19 cases". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 937/17-7-2020 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on "Except for one of the two radiation therapies of the University General Hospital of Larissa (PGN)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 935/16-7-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement of Mrs Constantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Reappeared ranches at the "Apicon" Hospital, despite the danger posed by coronary'. 3. Question No 949/20-7-2020 by Congressman B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on "Would you be nursing a ranch in Attica" in the middle of a pandemic, Minister? 4. The question raised by Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Direct support for working tourist bus drivers". 5. The question by number 940/20-7-2020 of the Member of Parliament of the Council of State on retroactive pensioners' decisions to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. 6. Under number 948/20-7-2020, a topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Support for mentally ills and those who need psychological support". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 941/20-7-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "An extension of the collective contract for the work of tourist bus drivers with tourist agents and the owners of tourist buses". 8. The Question No 945/20-7-2020 by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The Nursing Units of Health Elias excluded from the announcement of posts for qualified doctors in the ESS branch.” 9. Under number 942/20-7-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Publication of a ministerial decision in accordance with the order of reasonable doubt (Law 4554/18) and the engineers - old insured with full insurance to another institution, other than the CSME”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure)! 1. The question by MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The operation of an intensive care unit at the General Hospital of Kilkis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, entitled "The need for a modern and serious policy for the development of public health". 3. The Question No 6623/19-5-2020 by MP of the Greek Communist Party Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Determined-time workers at Drama Hospital". 4. The question asked by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Equivalence of age limits for men and women for retirement with a minor child (25-five years 2010). Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Secretary-General for Economic and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Stelios Koutnatzis, informs us about the list of current questions. Six of them will be discussed. I would also like to inform you that it will not be discussed as a result of a Member's blockade or under number 943/20-7-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Emmanuel Syntagaki to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Taking measures for housing about four hundred Roma in Aspropyrgos after the demolition of their accommodations. Take emergency measures to protect health’. The first question will be debated under number 933/14-7-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The potential downgrading of Larissa BC/KEE Larissa makes the championship absolutely insolvent". The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Leuteris Aygeakis. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister. Mr President, precisely because I am addressing the Ministry of Culture and Sport today, I can only mention Turkey's shameful decision to provoke a sad day, with a very heavy feeling for all of us in the Greek Parliament and the Greek people, as this decision, this unprecedented decision, insults the feelings of Greek citizens and the world, essentially by using a historic universal cultural monument. Our condemnation is certain and that is why I believe that this voice should be heard by Parliament's Chamber today. Minister, I come today bringing you a heavy burden from Larissa, from the people you know very well. You know we're a city with tradition in sport, both in basketball and football. Unfortunately, we're all adventures - how we do it, I don't know - but maybe something's our DNA maybe. However, we are dived everywhere and we are excelling ourselves. We have had a very tough decision to expel the Basket League of Larissa, a catapult decision that has caused us most of the problems, as we believe that this decision has exceeded the law and the objective and has not managed to balance between formal and substantive. You know very well, Mr Minister, that a purely accounting error because of disobedience - it is clear, because there are net accounts, the share capital has been deposited, in my timely question, I am developing everything, the accounts have been paid - to a group that climbed a staircase - and nothing was given to her for six, seven categories at all. So, at the moment, it is before a decision that expels it from Basket League, saying that it follows the example of Ionian Nice. It is not the case, as the Ionian will remain in the first category after the agreement with Diagora, as you know. So what we want to say to you, Minister, and that is why I have tabled my question, I was very pleased that after this question and the pressure of all the local players, I also consider your attitude to be positive on the subject, it has been specified that the objection, the request for revocation, should be debated today, in substance, before the Committee on Professional Sport. In this sense, therefore, we call for your Ministry's position on this issue which is extremely typical, as you know. I and his approach to legal matters. In my dentistry, I reserve it. The main question to you is whether there are institutional guarantees, Minister, for the objective approach of the Committee on Professional Sports, as you are the political leader of the Committee on Professional Sports and I am sure you are interested and make sure that no team is wronged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like today to reply to a question which, as we have informed you, would be useful to have the debate on it from Monday now, since, as you have already said, the independent Committee on Professional Sport will now meet to consider the objection made by the OEM Larissa. I asked you, Mrs Liikanouli, to pass on the debate next week, when there is a committee decision, and we could of course also inform Parliament, but you refused, to be honest, because, anyway, you had some reason to insist that this debate be held today. I am really sorry, because if we were interested in the substance of parliamentary control and discussion, we would have done it in the next few days and not persistently today, in my view, for reasons of purely communication and not substance. And because you're a legal person, I guess you know that I can't get into the bottom of the debate. I am not allowed, when the independent committee meets and examines the request made by Larissa's CDE. However, because we are likely to be watched by some related people, I would like to remind or inform Parliament and you personally that on this issue all three Members of the county of the New Democracy have been interested in the timely work of all three Members of the New Democrat Republic and Mr Agoras, as well as Mr Kurdis, President and all the administration of the Larissa CAR, who have done an excellent job - and I would expect you to make a comment on the abandoned facilities that, after so many years, are getting colored, quality, hugged by the parents and doing conservation work - and also by HOME Larissa, by Captain and the whole Council. And let him and I have met with the administration of Larissa, we have had a detailed discussion, I have informed them and proceeded, as they have the right to do, in the request for a review of the request. In my opinion, let me say that as a sign of fundamental respect for Parliament and the independent authority which the Committee on Professional Sport is, in accordance with Law No 2725/1999, I am here today, but I tell you that I will not answer the substance because I cannot, I cannot. You too, Mr President, knowing the procedures very well, you understand that. But with complete awareness of my institutional role, with full respect for the parliamentary procedures and the self-evident principles of the rule of law, principles of fundamental and self-evident for the fact that I am serving, as you know from both my term of office as a Member and as Minister, I seek to be here and even give you this answer, which is not satisfactory, but I cannot - I repeat, say for the third time - get into the substance of the matter. I would therefore ask you to be a little patient, as I do, and to have information about the content of the decision, following the objection made by the Larissa CSCE, fully aware of the issues, the concern, the interest of many executives and members of the Larissa Prefecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u6	Mrs Liikali, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you've been coming from a long time and I can't meet you. My view is in the future, yours probably looks backwards. You are very sad at me today in this House, as your office insisted - and it was even inconspicuous in the political savoir vivre you should not say such things - to postpone the debate on the topical question and you have insisted on it for communication rather than me. I, Mr. Ausgeakis, do my duty, ask questions. You have referred to the Members of the New Democracy, to my highest colleagues. Can't you resist that? You're making a mission to say that others were interested. Everyone was interested, not only in the New Democracy, and SYRIZA and the Communist Party and the Greek Solution and the media and our newspaper and our websites. Everyone was interested. You are telling me today about an independent authority. I don't know? I'm a lawyer. Did I ask you to intervene with the independent authority, even though you appoint it? You call it the independent authority. But that's not what I'm asking. I ask the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture, the responsible State Secretary for Sports, therefore, for such an injustice in our own approach. We do not have the infallibility, but this is the view of Larisa and your Members, whom you would like to call on. Invoke everyone. So I didn't come to do a communication show, Mr. Ausgeakis, here. You have come to make communications bridges with those you think should not stay in the posteriori, but they should be charged with any positive decisions. I don't care about that. I'm only telling you that I care about this. You may have your costumes and ties in your ministries. We are interested in the people on the stand. They care about us. With them we've grown up, you know. They're the ones we've joined together. With them we have been happy with victories, we have been sad at defeat, with them we have found years of local government and everywhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because everyone, Mr Minister, can I say with great respect to you that his journey and his history, at least as far as I am concerned, are concerned, apart from our good morning. I will not go into other matters. I just wanted to convey that, at the moment, the society of Larisa, of sport and basketball, in particular, wants from you the institutional guarantees that it will not be unfair, with respect for the decisions of the committee that has been set up, to tell you why you are also referring to Members, after my timely question, on the 20th day of the month. And I would like to put it to you, please, in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelia Likaulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the 14th of the month, I asked the timely question, so I didn't use this thing. Can I tell you something, Mr. Ausgekis? There are some things in policy that are very small and very few. You said it today and the small ones, and you said it too little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u8	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u9	In response to the small and the small ones, Mr Minister, I too will be allowed to say the small one and the small ones, that on 14 July my timely question was tabled and on 20 July the Committee on Professional Sports was invited by the CEE Larissa to deal with her objection. Well, things are crystal clear, I think, and we don't have to talk about them here. It's gonna be a victory. Don't worry. I'm not going to give it to me personally. Don't worry about it. It belongs to Larissa, the citizens who sent us here. We didn't go anywhere alone. None of us went anywhere alone either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u10	Minister, please for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u11	Mr Colleagues, because we are all familiar, less or less well-known, for this reason, and I really do not think that fits you in this style that you have followed in your dentistry. However, you will allow me to tell you that it has nothing to do with the timely question whether the committee will meet, i.e. I say it and I laugh. That's funny and don't invoke it. It's a disgrace. And it is shameful that you are ignoring the date that the OEM Larissa submitted its request for review, as it should have done, to the committee concerned. What are you confusing two things? To create impressions? On the other hand, what I told you about the three colleagues in the New Democracy, the district manager, the administration and the president of the LAEC, the president of the NEI, is that in time and very directly there has been interest on their part. You followed later. However, I accept and do not laugh - it is at least an insult to the Bureau and to my face, to the institution that you serve and serve, little respect does not harm...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u12	You will call the'shut' first of all, Mr Aygeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u13	So I have to tell you that the meeting that is taking place today at the request of Larissa, as it had the right to do so, and it has done well and has asked for a review of a number of new elements, as at least I was informed, and from that point on, one more detail. This committee is independent, appointed by the Minister but is not dependent on the Minister. You are confused by the old times of PASOK, rather than the Minister did what he wants, a dependent or an independent committee. Well, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u14	Well, are you causing us now? Do you want me to bring you the headlines of "NATIONAL"?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u15	Please don't interrupt. You spoke for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u16	I would therefore inform you that this committee is meeting and examining all the cases with the data it is aware of. Whether or not I agree with the committee's decision, you will allow me not to express my opinion because I am not allowed to do so. It's an independent committee, I respect its function. I may have disagreed on individual issues or on key issues. However, because I nominate it, and by the way, five of the seven members from the previous administration, from my predecessor, so I have not even appointed them, but even if they were all appointed on my behalf, I could not and would not be allowed to do so, Madam President, on an independent and dependent basis. That is why, as usual, Mr President, we have had the debate from your colleagues if you were to decide to have a debate on Monday so that we could have a result. You insisted that it be done today for your own reasons. We did not offer anything, but I think that the only thing that has been heard is that you probably had in mind, as you have already expressed on the role of the committee and all that, I think something useful has come out of it. We are, therefore, patient, trusting the institutions and, from there on, there is the right of the CEE Larissa, as I have already spoken, and I have told you, you have gone through this, with the administration and the directly interested in the steps that have the right to take. Moreover, you have not even referred to the interventions made in Larissa's fishing facilities in this 12-month period. Really, aren't you a resident of Larissa? Don't you have a picture? You don't have an opinion? Are you not telling the truth about the citizens, about the parents, about the athletes I visited recently, and I saw a smile of satisfaction when neglected, broken up facilities for too many years get colored, keep up, repairs with the little money, but is it being a serious job? Didn't you find the courage to say a good word about all these people who are unpaid on a daily basis offer their services to our few workers on the premises? A good word does not harm but criticism and irony, which let me as a new Member is not very beautiful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u17	We move on to the third under number 947/20-7-2020 in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The officials of the municipalities of the country again hostage to the political games of the government". The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, the question relates to 3K/2018, then some eight thousand per cent of sixty-six employees were hired to meet the established needs of the municipalities. The question, however, is that two years later there is a great deal of confusion about their employment issues and rights. According to Law 4674/2020, Article 79(9) provides that the service time spent on the basis of the provisional AACC tables in any AACC positions in positions of the same class and specialisation is to be considered as the actual public appointment service time and is therefore counted to complete the necessary two-year period for the end of the trial period and for the permanentisation. However, this has not been applied to those employed. There is a mess in the municipalities, and we fear that this chaos results from the orders given by the Ministry in this direction. At the same time in the Law of 1920 it is forbidden to transfer these workers, which is impressive, because the public service code states that after the end of the two-year period the transfer may take place. So what is this distinction for? Finally, because it is pending this new 'urban' notice 3K, which we have discussed in Parliament, for the two thousand posts in the OTAs, is important when it goes on to follow the other notices, such as 'Help at Home' and hence the mobilisation of the special experience is not twenty-four months, but to be in eighty-four, as is the 'Help at Home', which is very important. Finally, the complaint we accept, Mr Secretary-General, is that cleanliness workers have not yet received the 'Korovo - allowance'. You remember that at the time we said that they were exposed to a terrible risk and that the government has agreed that there should be a coronary allowance and that these workers should be given it. They have not so far received it on the basis of our information, which is very worrying. We would like to make a commitment to being given immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. It is a matter of 3K, which we have discussed several times. I see Mr Delis, with whom we had discussed this a few months ago. Let me begin by asking the question that the government is hosting the officials of the municipalities in political games. There's no political game. Things are clear. This government in March 2020 voted for Law 4674 which explicitly provides for the recognition of the period hired by workers from provisional tables to measure normally during a two-year trial period in order to bring the stage to an end and to simulate in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Let me make it clear that the orders given by the Ministry are always written and do not give oral orders. Obviously there is no order like the one you implied that this matter should not go any further. It is true that, if I am not mistaken, it is at the stage of signatures if not today, on Monday, the circular in question, which sets out the question of the application of Article No.4684, which provides for the recognition of the two-year period as part of the two-year trial service. We have discussed the problems of the 3K, which has been a very difficult process, which has been completed with a record of participation. Over a hundred and twenty thousand, if I'm not mistaken, applications were made for these positions, there was a terrible interest. Let me say something why you raised the issue of the seven-year period. The issue of the seven-year period was indeed voted on in Law 4674/2020, and it was intended that the needs that these workers were required to meet are permanent and lasting, and the majority of them, to say exactly the way they are, were workers with contracts which served in previous years, were mobilised as a point and within the framework of the tolerable and tolerable legal order for this particular experience in gaining a greater head start, and therefore these people were called upon to meet a part of the needs, which are particularly in the cleanliness of the municipalities. So the needs have been and are stable and lasting, so using this position to go to another municipality, any municipality that leaves will have a problem, because it will be left by the officials, and this is mainly about provincial and regional municipalities, which the natural trend is to move towards the urban centres, would again create the same problem that we are discussing, that is to say, there would still be subordinated municipalities in the service of cleanliness, and that is why a larger part of the compulsory stay has been entered, which we think is entirely compatible with the needs of these workers. I would clarify and it is very important to clarify that there is a category of exceptions to compulsory residence, which are the reasons for health, the reasons for co-responsibility, since some are present in local government in accordance with the provisions of Law 3852. In general, therefore, we have also provided the necessary security controls, so that there is a real need for an employee to be transferred or seconded. I would like to point out, by closing that none of these employees entered a position in which they did not apply for themselves, no one, for example, forced us to go to the alpha municipality or the beta municipality. They applied for, chose the municipalities they wish to work and therefore on the basis of the distribution of the molecules they worked there. So these officials will probably have to go some more years if they want to move, but I repeat that it is such a nature of work and that it is so important for the work they do both for public health, but also for the image of the cities that need not to re-establish the new gaps that will surely arise if the door for transfers to other municipalities is opened immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u21	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm sure it's a good thing that the Circular will come out. Of course, on the basis of our information - from the services of the municipalities - the fact that the officials responsible at the Ministry were commanding 'do not go ahead for permanentisation' does not create the best picture. I hope that the circular will resolve this issue. Now, as far as the seven years of transition are concerned, I understand the need you are referring to. I understand the needs and that these standing needs need to be met with the employed workers. Nevertheless, this is a more general issue concerning mobility and cannot be solved fragmentally. In other words, once the budget code allows for the transfer after the two years, it allows mobility, we cannot create two-speed workers from whom some will have rights and some will not have them. Because a similar argument, really worthy of reason, could be said for many other workers' specialties, beyond cleanliness, so it really is a very bad precedent. Irrespective of the intentions it has initiated, it is indeed a bad precedent that can lead us to very distorted situations, namely creating exceptions to the budget code in terms of the rights of certain workers in the OTAs. Please heal this. It is not in the original question, but because they are matters that you know very well, I would like a response from you and a commitment to the new 3K and moleculosis, as to whether to follow the example of 'Help at home', where we have special experience mobilisation in the eighty-four months. Again, we must not create workers - who are either candidates or recruited - two speeds. There should be uniform conditions in administration, since there are eighty-four months of mobilisation of the experience of "Help at Home". This should also be followed in other notices. And what is very basic, which I am also sure you know is the coronary allowance for cleaning workers. It's a complaint we received. I think it's shocking. Workers exposed and disproportionately exposed to the coronary, precisely because of the particularities of the epidemic, should be able to receive this allowance received by other workers, who were in the front line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u24	Let's get this straight. The law was clear and the need for the circular emerged to solve some individual cases, possibly some administrative addresses, which found some stumbling blocks in order not to apply. We therefore consider that the circular is now obliged to comply with the most delayed officials who do not go on recognizing them. I would like to point out that a trend has been observed since the implementation of mobility in recent years between municipalities, particularly the region, to urban centres, which, if you like, is important for their personal benefit. Because if they want money to move to a great distance, and that is why they obviously work close to their home place, this cost is being saved, so they can use this money elsewhere. That is exactly what we did not want to see happen, at least in the first phase, now with the 3K. We would have this paradoxical, we would have a municipality that binds positions in a proclamation that came out as it came out. Let me remind you that the twenty-four months of experience were the competition that was running and started by the previous government, as we have said several times. "He was running" this experience and this process, so we would have the following oxymobile, a regional municipality had some employees in cleanliness, and suddenly within two years they would have gone away and gone somewhere else and we would have been back in the same position. You would also reasonably ask, because the municipality has no posts in staff and we would be looking to find out what happened to the employees who were hired two years ago and who would have moved somewhere else. In particular, the issue of wage maturation is a matter for the General Accounting Office of the State and I think that the relevant answers to this question have also been given by the Government for the part of the allowance. You made a reference to your question about coronary time. We, in an act of legislative content, extended the two-month periods available for such unforeseen needs, as the pandemic was, in four months' time. And even the restriction of the reintegration of the same person into the same municipality was lifted in the same year for emergencies. In addition, we have also provided a further clarification that these contracts can be concluded up to six months after the adoption of a law - if I am not mistaken, by 13 September 2020 - and for a period of four months after that. Then there is a possibility for the municipalities, if they consider Coronary Needs to remain, to re-establish four-month contracts if they are concluded up to 13 September 2020. Obviously, the government is following developments in the pandemic, it is codecision, and if there is an urgent need for relegation, we are open to dialogue and with the CEDEFOP in particular, so that we can move forward with a new legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u25	We move on to the first with number 944/20-7-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of the Greek Parliamentary Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of a teaching service from education due to threatened pregnancy". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, today's question concerns the right of every woman to maternity. This sacred right of each woman was largely undermined and challenged by the Regional Council for Selecting Candidates and Coordinators of the Regional Education Department of the Ionian Islands. Let me report on the incident very quickly. So twenty-one months after Mrs Vlacho - that is the last name of the lady - as a school-leaving coordinator in Argostoli, in other words during her term of office, this Ionian Isles Selection Council has decided to remove molecules corresponding to its teaching service. The Selection Board has decided that the driving licence obtained by the co-ordinator in the past does not fall under the category of pregnancy and pregnancies - the license of threatened pregnancy! - licences recognised and guaranteed by law as a teaching service. He decided that this leave for threatened pregnancy was nothing more than a normal sick leave, as if it were some kind of sick leave that we are getting when we get sick, and that is why this particular lady was not entitled to the teaching service molecules for that time. What did the Ministry of Education do against it? Instead of getting a clear position, cutting off the cough, so to speak popularly and ask the Selection Council to recognise the license of threatened pregnancy as a teaching service, that is to say, to put a real barrier to discrimination against women in the matter of maternity, the Ministry of Education chose the tactics of Pontius Pilate and threw the ball on that particular board, which of course took the decision. The issue, as you can see, has erupted a storm of protests. Trade unions, ADEDY, the Citizens' Counselor, even the Ministry of Equality General Secretariat of the Ministry of Labour sent texts asking for this woman's right to be granted. Of course, after all this, the selection board retreated, took back its unacceptable decision. However, we think, Minister - and that is the real meaning of today's question, not to tell one incident - that this matter needs to be dealt with permanently and radically by means of legislation, so that there is no room for breach of the right to maternity. A legislative regulation which, of course, should address and restore retroactively any such case of questioning the threatened pregnancy as a teaching service. So many amendments by the government. This will be a truly welcome amendment. There are days, until the end of next week, to finish this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u27	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, you raise an issue in which I believe that, in the end, we do not need to, nor can we disagree. We can barely agree. I do not think anyone will get tired if we repeat the history of the case in any way and which is based, because we have arrived there. Because there was a law, Mr. Delis. This selection procedure was carried out under Law 4547/2018. This is, therefore, a law which has been implemented by the previous government, which has indeed been implemented to make it possible to select training coordinators. In particular, we are talking about the council that you mentioned before, the Selection Council for Educational Project Coordinators, with a process that took place in 2018 in the Regional Directorate for Education of Ionian Islands by the relevant Selection Board. You referred to the case of Mrs Vlacho as a candidate for the coordination of educational work. The object, as you have already said, is the question of calculating the time spent on threatening pregnancy as a teaching service and a corresponding moleculation. In order for the world, which, in any case, follows this procedure, to be able to monitor with interest, we must say that this procedure has taken place by means of provisional tables, final tables, according to the candidates' qualifications and, in the end, by conducting the interview. The final evaluation tables were drawn up and a ministerial decision was adopted from 21-9. This training was classified in the fourth place and, as a result of the failure to take up the second post of the second teacher in the table, it was placed in the second JOANNES. They came to the regional directorate with names of references to the beginning of this year, namely 13-1-2020, 6-2-2020 and 4-3-2020, by a teacher involved in that procedure and had a legitimate interest. The teacher reported that in the case of the finally selected Marie Vlachos instruction had been taken into account as a teaching experience with the corresponding moleculosis of five months, for which the teacher had received the licenses for threatened pregnancy. The issue has arisen on the basis of - I repeat - of the previous law, of Law 4547/2018 on the counting or not of childbirth permits, pregnancies and child rearing, but did not include what you mentioned, of injurious pregnancy permits or, more rightly, of officials in need of special treatment. This - I repeat, and I want to make it clear - is the legislative framework of the previous government. You mentioned a process of reactions. The council came back and, in the end, kept Mrs Vlacho in her post with a newer decision, namely in his decision of 9-7. So, although there was an inconvenience that you described, in the end, Mrs Vlacho remains in position, she had a positive outcome. As I mentioned at the outset, it is a framework in which we do not have to disagree, we will agree. Indeed, it needs a more comprehensive and clear solution to the issue and reform of Law 4547/2018 of the previous government. In fact, there are also several other imperfections in this law, which we are in the process of changing, obviously taking into account - the protection of maternity and non-discrimination on the basis of sex, but also the harmonisation with the overall constitutional and legislative framework for protection and the relevant case-law of the courts. I'll repeat the main points later. But I conclude with the prototype that, anyway, we are in this direction, Mr Delis, so that the necessary corrections can be made to the law of the education structures that the government will bring, in order to correct this kind of flaws of the previous law, which have also brought about this turmoil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, the issue, of course, does not have a personal dimension. On the occasion of Mrs Vlacho's question, we are raising a more general issue. Nor is it interesting how the selection board of the Ionian Islands, after a complaint, apparently proceeded to a review, etc. The main point here is that the license for threatened pregnancy is not recognised as a teaching service. That's the point. And that's what we invite you to solve and deal with. You're telling us about Law 4547/2018. As far as I know, the laws are not written on stones. They're changed, they're changed, they're abolished. We voted against this law both hands. Anyway, we won't defend him here. But it can be done. In your reply, you were not very specific if you would bring such legislation. I understood that you would also include this in the context of the overall reform of this law, although at any time. We don't know when. In the meantime, such cases will be 'current'. Madam Minister, we consider this development to be particularly serious with regard to maternity. And it's not about, as I told you, a specific teacher. And, if you like, it opens dangerous roads in relation to how the Greek state faces - because the selection board is a selection board of the Greek state - the issue of maternity, the right of every woman, as we said, to maternity. There are issues, Minister, such as maternity, where very clear and very intense declarations and positions are judged. The credibility of what we say, what the parties say, in any case. Here, one has the impression that the right to maternity - more generally now I put it - is questioned and undermined. And I won't talk about the private sector, where the young girls are literally shaking there. There are employers and businesses, where one of the conditions of recruitment is not to give birth to a child. That's what we're talking about, that's the protection of motherhood. We all know that. I will speak about the public, and I will remind you of a similar case. You weren't, of course, in the government at that time, it was SYRIZA. Mr Gavroglou was the minister to whom we addressed the question, to whom he never answered. It was a substitute teacher, Mr President, in Kosani, who had to take the threatened pregnancy leave and entered the dilemma to take this leave, which meant her dismissal, or continue to work, at the risk of losing her child? Why is that all? Because substitute teachers have only 15 days' leave for sick leave and because in this case, threatened pregnancy is considered a sick leave. That is exactly what we need to deal with. This is an extremely urgent matter and you have to deal with it. We will help you, Minister, to strengthen your efforts. We will present to you the document from the Secretariat-General for Family Policy and Gender Equality of the Ministry of Labour, where she stands side by side, defends the right of this lady and the right of every woman to maternity, using the leave of threatened pregnancy, without any cost at all. We will give you the text of the Citizens' Counselor and we will give you the decision of the Administrative Court of Thessaloniki for a similar, exactly case where the worker is justified. I will submit these to Parliament's services. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Delis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think you have an obligation to deal with them immediately. If it's not until next week, it'll be next month. The world isn't broken. However, this matter must now be tackled radically and permanently, which I do not think is a special honour for the Greek state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u31	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Delia, you're breaking open doors. We know these texts. You will obviously imagine that the General Secretariat for Gender Protection implements a government policy. Therefore, it is not possible for a part of this government policy to be desirable and the other half to violate this basic respect for motherhood, which will be proved. It will, however, prove to be the case by bringing the regulation together. You will agree that this law, because you are well aware of the framework under Law 4547, needs a comprehensive reform and a reform. So in the context of the reform of Law 4547 - since you want me to be clear, I will be clear - it will be a key direction and the correction of these issues that have also been raised in this particular case, which, however, has given rise to a debate on the general issue. So, yes, we agree, we need legislation. This will therefore come to the overall reform of Law 4547, because there is a large number of issues that need to be corrected, and of course, the issues of the protection of motherhood and non-discrimination on the basis of sex for women teachers are the main issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u33	I got that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. We are now entering the next question. The third question will be discussed under number 946/20-7-2020 in the second cycle of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Komnosist Party of Greece Mr.Georgeos Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "At the same time the workers of the private schools of "New Yenia Ziridis" will be paid to ensure their rights." The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Sophia Zacharakis, will also reply here. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of press reports and what followed in the previous period for the discontinuance of the Schools "New Zealand Ziridis", but food in this direction also gave the management of the company, with its encouragements to many parents, to go to another school for the new school year for their children and, at the same time, to return the advances given by the parents for the new school year, a situation is created that promotes the closure of this school. This is a school unit which employs hundreds of workers who have been unpaid for three months, and they are also experiencing the uncertainty about their future. The situation deteriorated following the imposition of emergency measures to deal with the coronary pandemic. The company was attempting to bring all the workers into a state of suspension of their contract of employment, while intensified tele­vision was being provided by school teachers, which even started immediately after the termination of the lifelong learning of the pupils. The teachers, of course, reacted with two months' expulsion from telecom­munications and returned to work immediately after the Ministry of Education has clarified, even lately, the illegal nature of the employer's energy. The repayment of the month of March was only on 15 May of this year and a few days before the end of the teaching year, the administration informed the employees that it was unable to commit itself to the payment of their remuneration. Of course, workers reacted, made a mobilisation, a forty-eight-hour strike, demanding the payment of those who are currently involved in the months of April, May and June. Therefore, the questions to the State Secretary, Mr President, are what measures will be taken to ensure that workers' legitimate salaries are directly paid to the 'New Yenia Ziridis' and, at the same time, what measures will be taken in order to clarify their intentions and ensure that workers' rights in this training are fully guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u36	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Evidently, the question of suspension of the "New Geneia Ziridis" training courses is very important. It has happened since the first moment of the ministry's attention. You recognize the question yourself, even though it has been covered, that the Ministry - and that I think it has to be clarified - has given solutions to individual issues that had arisen in this school in the previous period, as in the koruna period with the question of suspending contracts. We have made clear the general rule that we have, anyway, legislated. And who's that? The provision of distance learning during the temporary suspension of the schools excludes the suspension of contracts by teachers, since those teachers were working to provide distance learning, which was actually provided during the suspension of operation. Now, with regard to the question of the operation of the schools of "New Generation Zeridis", let's give a little of the background, what has happened to get there. Because it is a matter that is not currently the case. Its causes are reverted to earlier times. The financial difficulties of this school had begun since the end of the day. Since the 2000s there have been problems with the repayment of instalments to the creditor bank. In 2017 the real estate of the school in Spata was auctioned and passed on to the ownership of the creditor bank, with the teachers from now on renting this building to meet their educational needs. In February 2020, he auctioned another property owned by the school owner. On June 19th, he became aware of the Department of Private Education of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs of Alpha Bank's document to the Schools of Nea Yenia Ziridis, according to which he ceased the right of teachers to make use of the property where the schools of the property schools of that bank were housed. By way of exceptional urgency, the address of the same day, 19 June, was directly requested by the Department of Private Schools to the ‘New Yenia Ziridis’ Educational Schools to communicate until 22 June, in three days, the actions taken to ensure that the training courses were relocated to another property for the school year 2020-2021. In June 22nd, the school administration's response was informed by the Private School Directorate that efforts had been made between the training administration and the bank to find a solution and that they were in consultation with the creditor bank. Sadly, however, as is the case on several occasions, such an agreement was not possible and we went to the next phase, in which, following the request of the Ministry of Education on 6 July by the Ministry of Education on 9 July, the dates are important, because the reactions were immediate - it withdrew the leave to operate in kindergarten, primary school, high school and high school 'Zirides'. In fact, there are already LEIs of revocation for high school and high school and the LEIs are expected for kindergarten and primary school. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Nominal results - attention - for the above revocations occur from 1 September or the end of the current school year. Mr President, I shall continue with my history in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u39	I listened carefully to the State Secretary. It has clarified the framework for business operation as a whole, in the system that we live in and in particular, if you like, in the field of business action in education. All of what you say is about manipulation, the business interests that have developed in previous years and are continuing to develop now. But the question was specific. It was a good report, well-known about the subject you mentioned, but the question was a specific one. What will happen with the hundreds of workers to whom at least three months are due? Of course, on the basis of what you said, and in fact, they promote the complete suspension, possibly, of the 'New Zealand Zirides' Schools, on the one hand, because there are not three months of workers paid and, on the other, there is also an uncertainty about their future and their professional involvement. Here we would like to point out that both these workers and workers in the field of education and, more generally, those in the private sector - such as those in the 'New Genia Zhiridis' training courses - have suffered - and have been subject - for a long time to the practice of long delays in paying their salaries. And, of course, this company has for many years been implementing an unacceptable practice against workers in order to deal with the chronic problems of the liquidity that you referred to a moment ago, Madam Secretary-General. As in many other private schools, therefore, these workers have endured the long delays in the payment of their salaries throughout the entire period, accepting the argument that they must make a necessary contribution to the company's attempt to get back on its feet, the need to put back on the difficult and so on. All this proved to be 'carbon the treasure'. The result is that hundreds of workers from the closure of these training courses are on the road, many of them with huge experience in the field of education, etc. On the one hand, they remain unpaid for the three months and on the other hand for a number of rights arising from the suspension or cessation of operation of the undertaking, the workers themselves do not have the right to have access, to say so or not the opportunity to satisfy them. So, Mr President, we expect the State Secretary to tell us concrete action on the questions we ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u40	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u41	Mr Papoutsis, the reference to historian is worthy, because they have not all followed the training history and how we got there. So I think it is not lesser, but important. It is important, too, that on the same day we received the notification, the Private Education Department reacted immediately. It is also important to mention what has to do with wages. You know the schools are in Eastern Attica. It was therefore requested by the Legal Directorates of Primary and Secondary Education from the private school "Ziridis" to send the payroll and to update the payroll notice. Indeed, there has been official information from Zirides, that during the last three months - what you mentioned - they have not been paid because of financial weakness. For this reason and following that finding, the competent authorities shall indicate that, according to their competences, they are in a fine procedure under Article 42 of 682/1977 for failure to comply with the payroll provisions in accordance with paragraph (c) of Article 41 of that law. In fact, in yesterday's paper, the Department of Secondary East Attica referred the legal representative of the company to the Disciplinary Board for failure to comply with the payroll provisions. So that is the part you mentioned about actions. Now, in particular - because you are putting the question of the professional rehabilitation of teachers - I would like to say this: the moment is, anyway, a difficult time and time, because, if this had been the case earlier, these teachers would probably have been able to take part in the invitation made in December for assistants. But we are in constant and conscious, I must tell you, an effort to communicate with the owners of the rest of the private schools, so that there is an absorption of the teachers of the "Ziridis". I have to tell you the first signs are positive. Of course, we will be able to have a better picture at the end of August of the conclusion of recruitment contracts. It seems, however, that there will be a positive development on this front, otherwise. As far as the steps are concerned, I mentioned them all. I have also mentioned the steps taken by the Education Departments and, of course, the procedure - as I have said - to impose a fine on the non-payment of the staff of the last three months. I also mentioned the action of the Department of Secondary Athens for the referral of the legal representative to the Primary Disciplinary Board for breach of the payroll provisions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u42	The first question under number 6836-27-5-2020 will be discussed now by MP Rodopi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Charitou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The founding and functioning of new departments at the Democritus University of Thrace". Mr. Haritou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Congress of the Democritus University of Thrace since the end of 2018 unanimously, with absolute academic criteria, decided to establish and operate the eight new departments in Democritus, two of which in the town of Komotini: the Department of Psychology and the Department of Work therapy. I give you the proposal in the Minutes, you have it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Charitou, presents for the minutes the above proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This proposal, Mr Secretary, was accepted, for most of it, by the Ministry of Education's leadership, but, unfortunately, it did not have the time to conclude its vote because the elections were held. This unanimous and mature legislative proposal has been kept in your drawer for a year and you have not explained to us why you refuse to implement it, and yet you have not adopted the relevant ministerial decisions on the evaluation procedures of the new departments by the National Authority. As I have heard, Mr. Secretary, at a meeting that you had recently held at the Ministry for the fate of the Dumos Nursing School, you are urging the solution that the Department of Psychology will be set up instead of operating in Komotini, as originally planned, to operate in the Dumotikos in order to eliminate the social reactions there, because you are transferring nursing to Alexandroupolis. What is it, Mr. Secretary, the university departments to move them from here and there, so that you can keep balance and toss out tensions? Ponys in a chess game? Your government wasn't the one who gave us academic lessons by caratting on a night of thirty-seven divisions, why didn't all of them meet academic criteria? I want you to know very well that the institutions and local society of Rhodope are resurrected by your plans. Only as a challenge can such an unjust decision be taken. I would therefore ask you here to present in detail the specific timetable for the development of the Democritus University. What exactly do you intend to do to establish all the eight sections we ask? And I ask you - and I would like a clear answer -: will the Psychology Department under way remain in Komotini, as was the original design on SYRIZA, or will you move it to the Dumotich? I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, the Government, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, we practically support the remote region of Thrace and the Democrat University. The Prime Minister in his recent visit to Thrace in January referred himself to the Democritus University. And the Ministry of Education - I inform you - along with the other relevant ministries, approved the subdivision of the Democritus University of Thrace, by the Interministerial Committee, with a PPP project, which implements students' homes, educational, research and other infrastructures at the University, a project which is a station for the Democritus University. It concerns the study, funding, construction and technical management of student restaurants, accommodation and feeding areas, university houses, libraries, research centre, as well as other facilities of the university in various cities, Alexandroupolis, Komotini and Xanthi. This is a project with a budget for availability payments at present value EUR 107,000 now VAT. That is what we are doing, Mr Colleague, for the development of the Democrat University. But let us see what you said in your question, how you dealt with the Democrat. You said that the proposal of the Democrat University Senate's Senate was tabled in 2018. And so is it. You refer to your question, too, that the Democritus - and that is right - is a regional university that is a pillar of stability and development in the region - I fully embrace this view - and that it must be strengthened. You also say that the need to establish new departments proposed by the Senate was assessed and considered positive by the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education. I would remind you that the proposal was submitted in 2018. What did Mr Gabroglou do between 2018 and the elections? He brought to the House and passed Laws 4589 and 4610. With these laws he gave new sections to eight universities, the Agricultural, EKT, Thessaly, International, Western Macedonia, ELMEPA, Patras, the Peloponnese. He abolished eight TEIs and founded dozens of new divisions, a hundred twenty-five new divisions began the academic year 2019-2020. And then you're telling me he didn't make it? None of these new departments concerned the Democritus University of Thrace. And you're coming here to tell me he didn't have time. And not only that, the Democratium in his proposal had a nursing department. There was a Department of Nursing, we know it, at the Dumotich of the former Eastern Macedonia TEI and Thrace. So instead, Mr. Gavroglou brought it into his natural environment, in Democritus, to the International University, based in Thessaloniki, with the known problems. Mr President, I am going to go on with secondaryity so that I do not abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u46	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u47	Minister, I have listened very carefully, but I think my concern has become greater than before I put the question. You objected to the former Minister of Education. You know that the previous government's planning, as it had announced in public, for the Democritus, was to establish and start directly the operation in consultation with the rector authorities of some, at least, of the eight sections since September 2000 that we had before us. It's all publicly known, Mr. Undersecretary. You didn't answer me, what did you do a year now? You froze everything. You didn't do anything. You didn't do nothing to the clay. Give me specific answers to the questions I have put. When will they proceed, whether they move forward and if they are in your intention to establish these eight sections. She's a sheriff. I don't understand what you said. Did you say anything? You didn't say anything to what I asked you. I understand that in an indirect way, in response, you have confirmed, apparently, that you are in the designs, that you are subsidising the transfer of the Psychology Department under way from Komotini to the Dumotich. I've been honestly waiting for you to tell us exactly what's going on. What are you waiting for? Are you expecting new decisions from the Senate? Do you expect to hide behind them? Mr. Undersecretary, you're an academic. You realize that the position of this Department of Psychology is in its natural bed, in Komotini, at the headquarters of the School of Social, Political and Economic Sciences. What luck can it have, two hundred miles away, beside the Schools of Agriculture and Forestry in Orestiad? I listened very carefully. What support have you and the Prime Minister of the country referred to? Which University are you talking about, Minister? For the Democritus? Last week I met with the Republican authorities. Agomachun, Secretary, due to the shortages of qualified personnel. They are incompletely incapable of operating and, above all, of exploiting the possibilities, the available programmes for the development of the institution. I say to you very clearly that you have - and rightly so - made your flag of setting up the SYRIZA, that every post which, due to retirement, remains vacant in teaching staff will be immediately proclaimed. In practice, what is it, Mr. Undersecretary? Alalum! The Ministry gives you "green" light and the interior presses a brake and does not issue FEK to call the seats and the universities raise their hands. Finally, because I hear you constantly invoke the ability and self-sufficiency of universities to decide, I would like to say very clearly that by abolishing, among other things, all seven institutions of modern post-training in Democritus which would give a solution, if you like, and the thorny problem that you are trying to solve with the Twinstone, you have effectively lost the good witness, that it has to do with its self-sufficiency and respect, while the university was ready to operate them. So please, in your second speech, give me specific answers as to what exactly you think, what you intend to do about the eight sections being established at the Democritus University of Thrace, and if it is your intention to transfer the Department of Psychology from its natural seat, Komotini, to the Dumotich.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I said in my prology, respecting the sitting time, that I will continue in my second language. So, I'm not hiding, you're gonna get answers to everything. I'll start the last thing you said in your question for eight institutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u50	Seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u51	In your question you are not referring to post-training institutes. They are research institutes which were proposed by the Democrat Court. You're telling us we're abolishing. What are we abolishing when nothing has been institutionalised? They had not been institutionalised, nor functioned, nor, as you referred to your question, were ready for their operation. It was a proposal, which will be considered in accordance with the procedure I will tell you next. I'll come back to where I stopped at the M.D. You took the Department of Nursing Twins and joined it as an annex to the International without any professor, without any other ICP member, and as no other ICP member had twenty other parts of the dozens that you set up the last year and a half before you left the government, so we have the huge operating problems in the Nursing Twins. That's why a meeting was held last Monday at the Ministry. There was a meeting with the MPs of the county, with the administration of the Democritus and the representatives of local government and Metropolitan. We discussed these issues in nursing, the problems of its operation. We discussed the transfer of nursing to her natural environment, which is the Democritus University. The Democritus University presented its thoughts - because yes, we believe in the university's self-interest - for the development of the university. These thoughts will be updated by a decision of the Senate and, when it has the decision of the Senate, it will follow the procedure, because we respect the institutions. We do not set up and dismantle institutions by law. We establish sections in the right process, which is an evaluation by the National Higher Education Authority within the overall strategic planning of the country, then, once the new departments have been evaluated, we proceed, if they have been positive, to their establishment. I will now tell you that you will have answers, because you will have started the process involving the setting of criteria or the examination of the institutions' strategic plans in the next academic year, as the president of the NEAFC tells us, and will follow the examination of requests for the establishment or launch of new departments and institutes. The Minister's not planning, Mr. Comrade. The university is recommending, because he knows how he wants to develop. The independent authority assesses and expresses its opinion on the university project and then the Ministry's political leadership proceeds and does what it needs to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u52	We are now entering the last time question. It is the second with number 950/20-7-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "With state money, without state control, mining in Greece". The Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Gerasimis Thomas, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for the cooperation we have in the high-voltage pillars in Agia Varvara and Aegaleo. As far as I understand it, we will soon have developments with the settlement of the urban issues for the Ruff Plan, which is a necessary infrastructure to enable the groundbreaking to take place, so we will soon have more clear timetables for the implementation of the project that is really nothing but the high-voltage pillars to leave above the rooftops of the houses in Agia Varvara, through the school courtyards in the area. Now the question about Preno is about a very simple reasoning. Mr Hatzidakis, presenting the government's hydrocarbons policies, is often referred to in Prenos as a successful example, as an example that everything has gone well for so many years and therefore, because there is a problem in another region. We do have a very superficial look at Prino, in fifty, perhaps a little more depth, unlike looking at Epirus, Ionian and Crete, which reach 5,000 meters deep and move around there. Let me remind you that in Crete, just to reach the bottom in some parts, you need to go three and a half thousand meters deep, how much more to find the look below. So we are generally talking about unusable deposits on Epirus, Ionian and Crete. You know very well that and exploitable were, I would like them to stay in there because of climate change and the environment. But I'm trying to discuss it on the basis of your arguments. We have a company that, at such a small depth, presents such major economic problems, which is now calling on the Government to grant a EUR 50 million subsidy, as it sells, it says, even with the correction of oil prices, 50% below the cost. In other words, many millions of euros come in every year. This really shows the dead ends of the oil economy. And if you like, it is another flag for us that the hydrocarbons policy, in addition to the problems it brings us at the moment with Turkey, does not bring us any income, while it turns the economy into a distorted situation by turning it into technologies of the past, when there is the state of the future that renewables are, which can be produced and technology developed in Greece. That should be the direction, and that is why we want to know more about Prino. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr Arseni. In fact, developments in St. Varvara are very important. We have coordinated the government along with local government, IPTO and all the institutions so that we can resolve this system of high-voltage pillars and the issue of garbage. So we'll commit very quickly. The M.O.U. is about to be signed, it is beginning to be signed by all actors and we will soon be able to inform you and with more detail about what is being done. As far as Prino is concerned, I had two months ago the opportunity to answer a relevant question and to give details on this matter. I would like to repeat today the government's commitment to the functioning of the Prenos look, given the importance it has in the local economy in the wider region of Kavala and also for the workers involved. I will mention that more than EUR 450 million has been invested since 2018 in private money. The contribution of investment to local society and economy amounts to 165 million, while the overall range of investments stemming from this direct investment in Prino is 340 million euros. There has also been no discount on the environmental protection of the Cavala Gulf, although we are talking about an NATURA region and there has been no accident. The government's commitment is to continue the extraction that exists in Prino and to make use of the "Epsilon". The Epsilon look has the potential to produce fuel, which we still need in this transitional period in the country. Instead of introducing it, we have the possibility of producing it locally, in Greek society, with Greek stares. It creates and allows energy security in the country. At the moment the contractor continues to invest, continues to operate, has invested money despite low oil prices since the beginning of the year. And there is a debate with the Ministry of Finance, which is the Ministry responsible for conducting the discussions between the public and the company on possible State aid. The Ministry of Finance continues the discussion to see whether there is a need at first and second, if such a need is found, to create a solid solution that ensures oil extraction and from the deposits that exist and from the development and exploitation of the Equatorialon. The Minister for Finance has answered this question, which you have already made, and the answer to it states that the European Commission within the framework of the Temporary Framework for State Aid has specified the conditions on which Member States may grant aid to undertakings affected by the pandemic, and if the granting of State aid to the managing company, as in each case, could only be based on the Temporary Framework if the conditions laid down therein are met. Therefore, the state is having these discussions carefully with the company, but we see that the company itself continues to invest and proceed with the operation of this look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u56	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, look, on the basis of the information provided to us by the HR, for the last two years that the figures for 2017-2018 have been available, the revenue for the Green Fund has been EUR 264,000 from Prenos. Generally speaking, as far as public revenues are concerned and on the basis of the replies from the Secretariat-General for Energy and Mining for the first time, we still see that for a long time all this revenue was zero and when mining was working. It's a look, which may have any features, but it's also his indicative where we're going right now. We're talking about a look that started when there was demand for oil. Now we are at a time when demand is not only reduced because of a coronary. As has been said by government officials, it will continue to be reduced regardless of the coronary, and by electricity and by all that comes and turns consumption away from the oil. And as far as gas is concerned, we have also seen the bans for use in heating and sunset clauses, namely the limits of targets for banning use in heating, starting and putting too many countries like the United Kingdom and too large cities in the United States. So it's a model that in Greece he had been problematicly performing in the past. There is no guarantee that it will be done in the future. It causes us problems, because it brings conflicts with Turkey to this end, it causes us to increase armaments, which is a fatal consequence of tensions and at the same time revenues are detached. They're asking us to subsidise these activities too. We are now reaching the point that Greece needs to subsidise these companies for an activity for which it has not received any revenue. In addition to unforeseen events, in Crete, the Ionian and Epirus, with the exception of perhaps Katakolo and perhaps the Corinthian - and the Corinthian - there are reservations - there will never be any mining. So we are talking about an activity in which we are going to get in, we will have to get rid of the companies, we will have escalating tensions with Turkey, extra costs in terms of equipment, environmental degradation - an accident will lead to more than 1.5 billion, as the international organisations say, and the costs of tourism - and the dangers of enormous risks, as we have said, for the marine environment in a variety of ways, both in the research and in the mining sector. So, really, I'm calling on the government to stop, change course. I would suggest - and you would agree with me - that the direction be for renewable energy, with respect always in the natural environment and nature, not anarchy. But that must be the direction, and that is what the country must do. If it has 50 million that ENERGEAN asks to give to Prino, let us create these necessary technology cells, through the ligniteifications in Megalopolis, Ptolemais, where we need to build these technologies and get into the production of these technologies, because these are the minerals of the future, the environmentally friendly oil of the future. Petroleum and natural gas are the dinosaurs of technology. Unfortunately, we are misleading the world and a great deal of hope has been played by previous governments - the government of Samaras - Venizelos, in particular, but it has also continued on SYRIZA - saying that they will solve us the problem of the economic crisis, while the big problem is not to put us deeper with the rescues of the Greek and Greek companies, through their subsidiaries, which we will be charged when any activity of this bankrupt technology is now under way. It's like they say in English, stranded asset. Nobody wants to invest in them. Why are we doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u58	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u59	(Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy): Mr Arseni, the government is changing course. Greece has already changed its course since the publication of the national energy and climate plan. The Government has decided on the degreasement, the closure of lignite plants which pollute until 2023, those operating and the one that will continue to operate until 2028. The government has decided in the ESRB and has set a target by 2030 for natural gas, but natural gas in absolute dependence will be the same as we have in 2020 - the country will not increase its dependence on gas on final consumption - and the RES has decided to be a large part of the country's energy production and more than 60% of its electricity production. The country's changed course. As far as the transition period is concerned by 2030 and for some things by 2040, we will still have oil wherever the country, the Army, cars. As you can see, we need some oil to move. The production, which exists in Prinos and the one that can be strengthened by the 'Epsilon' look, is absolutely necessary and much smaller than the imports we are making. Therefore, at the stage where we need certain quantities of oil and gas it is much better to have them with domestic production rather than import. You do not only see the openportunity cost or, as you said in English, the standard assets, to import this fuel that we need. Therefore, we will try to continue and have local production where we can. I won't get into the finances because they're speculative about what the company wants or what the other guy does. There are negotiations. We will see, first of all, whether there is a need for State aid and if it is established, we will explain it in full openness, explain why and how. I would like to say about the rest of the mining and the areas, because you mentioned the other regions, and yet there will still be no speculation on what exists and what is not there. There have been contracts. These contracts have been signed by too many companies, Greek and foreign. Hydrocarbon extractions are currently not being carried out, but according to the approved research programmes, exploration operations are being carried out by companies on all plots. What I would like to stress, in order to return to the environmental issue which you put into, is that all research, research programmes and possible research will be done without an environmental discount. It will be signed by the end of the month by the Ministry of the Interior between our Ministry and the Ministry of Interior, which will set up regional observatories for the environment and for the safety of research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons. It was something you reminded of a few months ago. This will be signed. These regional observers will be chaired by the region, the municipalities, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, EVEI, EAFRD, the local chambers, non-governmental organisations and other relevant institutions will be able to monitor and assist in environmental protection, the information that is available for the investigations in which they are carried out and provide the necessary transparency, so that there are no problems and a lack of information in the local society. I think that's a way of being responsible to move forward, and the evidence will show if there's gas somewhere. If there is gas, we need it in this transition that we want towards renewable energy sources. Instead of having it imported, we'll have it on the other side from a Greek source. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative work, the President of Parliament would like to make a statement on the anniversary of the restoration of democracy. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now forty-six years since the restoration of democracy. On July 24, 1974, the first picture following the outbreak of the military coup is the courtyard of the Parliament occupied by tanks. The first thing that the dictatorship abolished was Greek freedoms and parliamentism. The first thing that was opened after the restoration of democracy was Parliament, which, in its Fourth Resolution, stated that "the Republic was never justly destroyed". That dictatorship was the longest, but certainly the last in our country. Today, having ensured what was enshrined in that first post-population period, having guaranteed parliamentarianism and freedom within this framework, our country, the political forces, Parliament, the government, the opposition, are fighting each one of its own struggles, but also with common references to strengthening the country's progress towards its advancement, to its security, to its well-being. The first anniversary of the restoration of democracy in July 1975, ladies and gentlemen, was celebrated in a historic place. It was celebrated in Pyuka, where the church of the city was. Speaker of that first festive event, which the then president of the Parliament, the late Constantine Papaconstantinou, was a great thinker of the 1930s, Angel Terzakis. I remember from his speech a phrase, which I feel should accompany us, namely that democracy, in addition to its institutional conditions and institutional roots, is also an upgraded culture, a stepping-up of culture, which we must constantly take, because it is a high standard of human conquest. And I also remember, at the moment when I see that the people's sovereignty, which is the foundation of democracy, in a great book of Constitutional Law, by Alexander Svolos, is described as that foundation, that is, popular sovereignty, that it comes and is surrounded - listen to this - with the prestige of divine truth. People’s sovereignty, that is, its power was contained in the eyes of constitutionalists the prestige, the radiation and the prestige of divine truth. So unshakable, so unrelenting, so irresistible was the power of popular sovereignty. Today, then, is another time. We have experienced, with the eruptions that we are all aware, the longest period of democratic normality in the country and our duty vis-à-vis that restoration, obviously, the preservation of this divine truth, the conquest of the Greek people and the conquest of their national security, which, forty-six years ago, was threatened and today, but it is certain that with determination and unity, these goals will, as soon as ever, be conquered again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the agenda for legislative work, let me make the following announcements from 24-7-2020. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Simplification of framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions’. In addition, the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Forensic interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2020/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, a public contribution for the repayment of loans for stricken borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVID disease -19 and other provisions’. Another announcement to this House, from 24-7-2020. The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the MPs of his party tabled a legislative proposal on 23-7-2020: "Measures to relieve the people's family of debts". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Simplification of framework for the exercise of economic activities of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 July 2020 to discuss the draft law in a single debate in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u64	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Maximos Sedetakis, has the floor for 15 minutes. I would ask you, because we have had many topical questions and reports in the morning and because we have left behind in time, to keep the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House by all the speakers. Mr. Sedetakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u66	Of course, the list of witnesses opens until the end of the first two rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, what we have with the witnesses, given that the seasons are a little bizarre on the basis of yesterday's and yesterday's events, we have to take care of that because we will be accused of other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u68	Let me tell you, sometimes Members are witnesses to what is happening in this House. What happened the day before yesterday is a kind of witness and that, if you think about what happened in the House the day before yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u69	That's right. But the world will never accept it and we can never invoke it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u70	We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating and will be put to the vote is first and foremost legal. But it has a hidden political substance, which we cannot ignore. To identify it, however, we need to see the broader political framework within which we legislate and the broader policy that we are implementing. What's the political goal? The Government of New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis has already promised a reform governance before the elections last year. "The Final State" was the title that brought together our political will to modernise public administration, remove bureaucratic obstacles to all forms of business and economic activity, create pro-business environment and pro-investment climate. This was and remains a central political objective of this government. Is it a rhetorical shape? Apparently, no. The aim is to take a step forward - step by step, painfully and methodically, from the smallest, those that do not focus on journalistic interest to the most emblematics that give rise to public debates. So we can now discuss a bill of act or better than applied policy, but for a policy to be implemented, it must exist. And there is. However, politics and, therefore, good legislation do not apply to vacuum. They take into account the wider political context. How is the broader political context now defined? It is undoubtedly defined by the country's budgetary constraints and capacities, which are not inexhaustible. It is identified by the new data of the health crisis. It is determined by the constant and growing Turkish challenge. It is also defined by the European framework of principles and rules, which we choose to be an equal and an honorable partner. We cannot, therefore, go beyond the European framework within which we are planning, implementing and adapting our national policies. Therefore, of course, we cannot go beyond the specific result we have had this week in Brussels. The 72 billion funding, guaranteed for our country by the Prime Minister and the Greek negotiating team, is a real fact and is thus closed with relief for a long period of insecurity for Greek society on the next day of the pandemic. I say reassurance, because the question about the Greek economy is about finding resources. Because, without resources, we cannot finance the necessary reforms we need, to shorten the time to start the recovery and start as soon as possible to cover the lost territory of recent years. The necessary resources have therefore been secured. Maybe some people wanted more. But here we are not talking in terms of auctions. We are talking about twenty-seven states that are always looking for - and this is the secret of the success of the European Union, which its critics do not understand - a compromise. Does the compromise satisfy us? I think the result is spectacular. The main thing, however, is not the amount. It's the way we use the last cent of that money. And here we are now. Today's debate is a part of this way. For example, how do we implement the objective of strengthening the primary sector? First, do we have the resources? Answer: Yes, we assured them. The resources for the common agricultural policy were not reduced, and at first there was a concern about 10% reduction. And this is a success credited to the Minister for Rural Development and his staff and to the entire negotiating group. So we have an economic basis. We're not on the air. Second, do we have the strategy? Do we know, in other words, how we will implement the objective of strengthening the primary sector? Answer: Yes, we have it. What's this strategy? Answer: Correction, I'm improving. In other words, we are going step by step, we are correcting the provision, we are improving the legislative framework, to facilitate creative forces from the smaller to the larger, creating what we all recognise as an urgent need, an environment that is entrepreneurship-friendly and investment-friendly. That's the strategy, because strategy - magic wand doesn't exist. With a law and an article you don't change Greece. You're changing it with effort, studying every detail on every issue. And I am passing, ladies and gentlemen, from the great picture of this bill. Is this bill within a political objective? Does it confirm the objective implementation strategy? As you will see, the answer is 'yes'. Why? First of all, it serves as a basic principle, the existence of a uniform and coherent way of authorising economic activities in the country. The market wants it, the business community wants it, the logic says it. The role of the State is to look forward to the prerogative of its members and, therefore, to facilitate them, if not to encourage them, to promote their business plans in an uninterrupted manner. In this direction, the 'Notify Business' platform is designed and implemented and under this umbrella - I would say - the first four articles of the first chapter of this draft are placed. We have the administrative simplification of procedures for the establishment and operation of intensive and semi-intensive aquaculture units, veterinary centres, veterinary clinics, pet farms and livestock establishments. In particular, you will allow me to say to Rule 3, because there has been a lot of discussion in the committees on whether it will facilitate the growth of amateur pet-farming animals and thus the increase in stray animals, that the provision is clear. It does not change the definition of a professional breeder and it does not facilitate amateur rearing. It is simply an administrative simplification of the specific economic activity as of others. What does administrative simplification mean now? It's a series of administrative arrangements. But the basic thing we must keep is the radical innovation contained in these articles is a positive response or a silent acceptance of the administration. What does a positive response mean? It means that if the administration fails to respond within 50 days to the licence request, it is like responding positively. And the responsibility now for the accuracy and truth about the required documents submitted passes on to the individual. Is this an example of removing bureaucratic obstacles? It is. Does it facilitate economic activity? It's making it easier. Does the individual cease to be a hostage of the administration and wait for months if his investment plan will be implemented? It's gone. Is the trust of a citizen - a state? He's inspiring. It is inspiring because the administration is no longer suspicious to the private. He's giving him responsibility. And, of course, if it is established that it did not take over as a debtor, it is withdrawing the licence. Here, then, is a proof of how I correct his strategy - I improve the legislative framework, it meets the central political objective not by words, but by legislative acts, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. However, this bill includes other such hidden evidence. We see, for example, in Article 5 of the second chapter, the establishment of the crime of theft and of the homicide. We also see the tightening up of the penalties for those who have so far been unpunished with these offences, stealing unnecessarily large quantities of fish from the farms. This correction, this improvement of the law, is vital to the most vital sector in the primary sector, a sector in which ten thousand workers are employed in the sixty-six registered enterprises operating three hundred twenty-three units. It is a arrangement that helps the industry to continue creatively, developmentally, to increase the total annual turnover of 550 million today, to increase the value of its exported product, which is now 450 million, to give other jobs to people who need it. Another example of correcting and of hidden political substance that contributes to the formation of an investment climate and to strengthening the confidence of a Member State - citizen is in Article 7 and Article 13. Article 7 deals with the phenomenon of building buildings - shells in land of high productivity, which their owners legally own, but which cannot exploit in another agricultural activity than that for which they were built. This issue is resolved by the possibility of changing the use of buildings. In this way, these people are given the opportunity to make small investments and to look forward to a new principle that will favour themselves and local society. In this respect, Article 13 makes it easier for large strategic investments, which we all agree we need. We also have administrative simplification here, but we also have a speed of implementation, because the Minister is given the opportunity for direct concessions without a tender for public property for strategies and investments which have been subject to development laws. This layout makes big investments fast and strengthens the pro-investment climate. But the strengthening of the pro-investment climate is also achieved by another provision that lifts, as is said, legal uncertainty, as the Minister rightly said, the private investor by the state. In what way? The Ministry was known to own agricultural properties which, according to the already abolished Law 4061/2016 Agricultural Code, could confer on terms either by ownership or by use. The irrationality, however, was that it had the possibility of withdrawing the concession decisions. This provision provides that no decisions to transfer real estate which have been transferred by ownership after 20 years of the transfer of the concession or the concession will be revoked. And since we're talking about insecurity, we can talk about security. Security for farmers is inspiring by ELGA, the producer’s main insurance body. With Article 9, we have another example of correction and of a hidden political substance. The article restores the distortion caused by the provision of Law.4351/2015, which abolished the maximum level of compensation of 70,000 per beneficiary. It was a provision, which was accompanied by the optional selection of the maximum special insurance contribution of EUR 10 000, with which the insured and the beneficiary is compensated without a ceiling. The application of the provision burdened the Agency financially, according to the data for the three-year period 2016-2018. One and a half million contributions, five and a half million allowances, one hundred and seventy people insured. It's really weird. He's getting a housekeeper in here. The ELGA cannot enter 40 million a year. That'll change. It will be surplus, it will work like an insurance agency and the money won't go to the state, stay in the organization, go back to the farmer for his benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly refer to the points that have been agreed on the trumpets, that is to say, Article 14 to address the population eruption of feral pigs with the enlargement, as everyone wants, of the hunting season, Article 16, as the chronic problem of the legalisation of existing equidae and equidae facilities has been addressed in Article 17, which deals with the slaughtering of pet animals and of equidae for various reasons. And I will end on the occasion of Article 18, which extends the visa of foreign land workers until the end of the year, to highlight the importance of the country's household strategy and progress. It is clear that the primary sector needs workers and it is well known that the land workers do not meet the growing needs, so that every year third-country nationals are employed. Last year in theory, 200 workers were employed. In fact, as we all know from the evidence we have seen this year, it was eleven thousand. In other words, we have had extensive non-legislative work. This resulted in the producers being exposed and the ECA not to collect any contributions. He's been in class this year. These people will be working with errands, the ECA will receive insurance contributions, the producers will be covered. And there's one more thing I want to say. All Greek nationals wish to work as land workers do not lose their unemployment benefit if they are entitled to it. With all this, it turns out that the strategy of correcting it - I am improving it is extremely important, useful and effective in implementing the central political objective set by this government, to finally change Greece, at last, to make it a normal European country and even a European model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr Sedetakis, and above all for keeping time. The rapporteur for SYRIZA has the floor, Mr Olympia Taligoridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by expressing my condolences to the family of the former colleague and MP of SYRIZA of the prefecture of Evros Dimitris Rizzos, a man of a wonderful, clean soul that those who had met him will be missed by his kindness, kindness and smile. Today is a day of sadness. On the one hand, it is the anniversary that honours the restoration of democracy and we unite all the democratic forces of our country so that we continue with the efforts of the fighters who were against the junta of the colonists and all together must safeguard our constitutional freedom. On the other hand, today's meeting is being held under the shadow of a high symbolism of a negative event, the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque, a monument of world heritage with historical and spiritual value for our country, but also for the whole of mankind, a monument that Erdogan, incorporating it into political and national planning, insults the world community and every civilized free man. I would like to say first of all that we need to look at the general context in which the government's specific legislative initiative is currently coming. The general framework is defined by the terms of the health crisis and the economic crisis arising from the pandemic, which highlights the need for an applicable primary sector policy. It has proved in this crisis that the primary sector is an important factor that ensures for all the peoples and all countries food adequacy, food safety, the uninterrupted process in the supply chain and helps not only the agricultural sector, but also all citizens as consumers, so that they can have a good diet and be able to meet the financial requirements for the purchase of these products as well. In the pandemic, the value of state intervention was seen in many areas. For example, I will say that even in the public health sector, even those who said we should go to privatisation, the pandemic proved the value of the public health system. In the same way, it has been proved and that State intervention is needed in agricultural production and it cannot be left to the laws of the free market, laws that neoliberalism has been hierarchized. This cannot be done, because if we let the rural world alone deal with the problems that arise in the pandemic, then many issues are actually created for everyone, even for social cohesion. That is why we have said from the outset that legislative initiatives in the primary sector should take into account these conditions and create support policies. So far, for four months now, we have not seen an integrated plan for strengthening our farmers by the government. We have heard many times that we will not go to horizontal measures - and we have been criticised as a Qualified Opposition that we are proposing this - but we must go to hierarchy and targeted ones. Even in this hierarchy, however, no support measures have been implemented so far. So we have left the rural world without exceptional measures to deal with their everyday lives, but without the possibility of creating those conditions so that businesses can also have liquidity. That is why we have said at the outset that there should be an integrated plan and the bills incorporated in this plan, because today it is not enough to do with fragmentary administrative corrections. We should all understand that support for the agricultural sector is not just support for farmers, farmers and fishermen, but is support for the whole of society, because we are all consumers, it is support for the quality of our lives. Because many sectors are linked to agricultural production, such as focusing and tourism which have many problems, we understand that there is a link on these issues, and that is why we are insisting on global policies. So, seeing this bill, I would like to ask one question: it really goes on to resolve the question of simplifying licensing procedures. Does anyone think that in today's day one will go to open up a rural business just because the licensing process has been simplified without taking into account whether this is an economic activity that has a future? That is why we have said that in a bill such as this, which brings about a new institutional framework for the exercise of economic activity, we would expect a more comprehensive proposal to create an environment that has uniform rules and that will help modernise business and develop research and innovation and, ultimately, to attract young people to the agricultural profession. Instead, we have a bill - cording disparate provisions and dispersed on many issues, without beginning, middle and end, without a central objective, without a central account. It is, therefore, a bill which is indifferent to the vast majority of our markets and is obsolete from a political point of view. This is, of course, not the first time, because the previous bill of the New Democracy Government, on your behalf, was a racist bill. So here I think it is a political mistake that the Ministry is not dealing with the essential problems, and this also shows a hard confirmation that the development of the primary sector is not of interest. Starting with the first four articles of the bill, I will say that there is an attempt to simplify licensing. The first article on the operation of aquaculture units, in essence, concerns a very small portion of units and there is no substantial simplification throughout the sector. In fact, even the fisheries services of the regions are not even included in the co-operating services that should be consulted on the establishment of aquaculture units as regards the approval of establishment and the notification of establishment and notification of operation, as well as the change in the notification of establishment. We have an exclusion from the fundamentally competent scientists to take this initiative. In the second article we have said that the simplification should not be carried out at the expense of the veterinary profession, which is a profession which, unfortunately, has many examples of its conflict. That is why we believe it should be said that authorisation for authorisation and operation by the competent authorities is necessary. In the third article, which deals with the breeding, breeding and marketing of pet animals, there are too many questions. From whom can they be established, in which areas and minimum requirements to ensure hygiene and well-being? Are they going to be put? In the fourth article, in fact, the authorisation of the stack facilities is of major importance and a definitive end must be given to the reseller extensions. We have, however, here a process that does not change anything and, moreover, falls under two laws, because it is the subject of two ministries. As you know, the great problem with licensing is the necessary documents from the Forest Service, which is not dealt with by the existing provisions. Furthermore, silent approval over the 50 days, without a clear wording on the cases of large-scale environmental nuisance operations and of great health significance, I am afraid that not only will it resolve but will create problems. And while there was also the result of the working group set up at the Ministry since December 2018 you have indeed received some points. From there on, however, there has been no proper assessment and hierarchy - as you like to say the word - of how these problems will really be solved. I would like to say to you, Mr President, that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens is a very important one. The DECL - you know - from a scientific point of view, they have geoponists and veterinarians. How will geopoliticians and veterinary surgeons, in addition to the zootechnical study, consider whether these farms have the terms of the environment, the terms of a political engineer, the terms of the archaeological ones? There's a cuff. In Article 6 on the ELGO, we have said that, first of all, a solution should be found for the reimbursement of the money by officials, because it is very important. We're talking about four hundred families. On the other hand, we have said that there is an injustice, as an allowance is provided for in the Secretary-General for Agricultural Research, but the same is not provided for the directors of the same department. In Article 7, I'm going to point out a little bit about photovoltaics. High productivity land is a valuable resource for agriculture and should be protected and not allocated indiscriminately. And when we give a figure of 1% on the total agricultural area and not on the land of high productivity, I very much fear that many problems will arise. In Article 8 we asked for clarification. What's the setup? We're waiting for an update. In Article 9, which concerns ELGA, we have also said in committees, we believe that reducing the amount from 250,000 to 70,000 creates conditions for opening the way to private insurance. It is an option that we believe will prove to be injurious to the organisation, because the greatest damage has been caused by the fact that the compensation will not be granted to those who have set a premium of up to EUR 10,000. So we believe that the compensation will not in some cases cover either the cost of production and this will create a great deal of grey and depreciation of the ELGA, which, if we look at the tables for '16 to '18 with the contributions paid in the case of the 250,000 ceiling and the compensation paid, we will all understand that this arrangement was in the positive direction. In Article 11, I move quickly on to articles - a problem of the ELGA of its General Accounting Office, which amounts to just EUR 25 000, is being solved in a way that burdens the cheese farmers and also doubts the reliability of the samples. In Article 13 he wants a special attention. In Article 14 we have asked for the feasibility of creating these facilities and with what standards. In Article 15 we have no objections. In the statistic facilities, we have once again pointed out that this is where the facilities of the cavalry groups are left and that they do not respect distances, provided that they are in their statutes for entertainment and educational purposes. There is an injustice here, however, in relation to the real producers, who must apply the law. In Article 18, just a month after the vote on Law 469, you come to fix problems. In Article 20, we consider that the abolition of strategic planning and their responsibilities demonstrate that you do not care about strategic planning in the primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. To prepare Mr. Panas, special speaker of the Change Movement, until the Seed is settled. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that under Protocol number 9106/6207/24-7-20 the President of Parliament was created by the Intergroup parliamentary committee for the development of Thrace. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u75	Please close the electronic record system. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion by the Ministry of Rural Development is the third piece of legislation of the Ministry since the new leadership took office just a year ago. We are therefore in a position to have an accurate picture of the reasoning that the Ministry of Rural Development is currently legislating. Our conclusion and at the same time the view that we have formulated is that in total the current government through the current minister's mouth has no real reform in the country's agri-food sector. The Coronovirus and the dramatic effects on agricultural income and the cycle of agricultural production have shown as little as the absence of real interest for the producer and the agricultural sectors. The fact is that we have repeatedly pointed out that there are rural branches that have not received a single euro from the exceptional funding funds due to the restrictive measures in the krone. We are obviously referring to the eligible SARs that you thought were affected and not to all the others who thought that this crisis did not touch them. At this point to say once again that in our view there is no agricultural sector that was not affected by the coronary crisis either in production, in the sale of products, or in both. For this reason and by recognising the need for direct support from the country's primary sector at the first moment, the Change Movement presented detailed proposals for horizontal support for rural sectors. In particular, we have proposed payment of aid and income aid for farmers and farmers, we have pointed out the need to ensure the population's nutritional adequacy through proposals for the uninterrupted continuation of agricultural production and as a result there has been a regulation on the issue of land workers on a related legislative proposal with the right to withdraw third country nationals from the land until 30-6-2020. And with the draft law under discussion, this is extended to 31-12-2020, making it possible for already retired land workers to remain at work, but also to be relocated from now on. That is why I asked the Committee yesterday and personally for the Minister to clarify what this regulation will cover, because it is precisely a matter which specifically concerns producers throughout Greece, particularly the harvesting of olives. However, there are many questions that remain unanswered, such as on what criteria and how many will be given EUR 7 000 for each farmer and EUR 50,000 for each small and medium-sized farm. Will you lend, as we have suggested, the farmers with low-priced loans, as you have done with the other small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with the recent microfinance law? What will you finally do for the EUR 150 million allocated by the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Rural Development, which is not sufficient to cover the damage to sectors such as horticultural, livestock, fisheries and fish farming, while from the state resources EUR 10 billion for the forward implementation of the National Development Programme is available in the primary sector only EUR 28 million, which is 0.28% of the ESDP resources? Furthermore, why did we reject the proposal for a direct payment of EUR 850 million within one month of the single payment of EUR 850 million at the expense of the public only with interest so that farmers can obtain supplies to continue to produce? Why are you delaying compensation and why the improper payment of income support for farmers and fishermen by triggering the de minimis mechanism, as most European countries do? Because their damage, regardless of the size in which it exists, is expected to continue. Why do you refuse to introduce agricultural oil to reduce production costs and why do you not grant state guarantees for loans to finance the production process, using the resources of the EUR 460 million that have been repaid by the European Union and the pastures? So you understand that as long as you continue to bring bills that are not appropriately essential for dialogue and political confrontation, we will constantly revert to the same unanswered questions. You will constantly be criticised for your entire policy in the agricultural sector and less receive positive comments on the attempt to bring about changes. Let's not be fooled, Minister. There does not seem to be an overall strategy in the primary sector until now. Your tactics are the fragmented and individual management of issues that happen to reach your ears. So I come to the point. Did we also point out in the debate in the committee that it is appropriate to simplify procedures, but whether this is actually the case? You are responsible as political leadership and you are responsible for committing the services that fall within your competence to keep the timetables. Why else, what sort of settlement and what simplification of procedures are we talking about? You are now aware that farmers are being plagued by bureaucracy, which causes them huge problems. So we're telling you straight away. Set the binding clauses required by the competent authorities, if the procedures are to be speeded up at last. Because there is good legislative predictions and the institutional framework, but there must in fact be determination. That draft law shall intercede at any time by amending, at any time by supplementing the existing procedures for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, intensified and non-intensive livestock, veterinary, pet and livestock establishments. This framework was already provided for by a law of the previous government, and in many cases it remained inapplicable. The draft law deals with issues that are not at all trivial, as they are issues that are time-consuming and which constitute barriers to their practical implementation in the day-to-day activity. You regulate them to some extent, but it seems that, in an incomplete way, you are actually making a streak of the existing provisions. These are issues relating to a wide range of competence activities of the Ministry of Rural Development, but to most of the arrangements introduced by the draft law under discussion we find shortcomings. In the primary sector, Minister, there is a need for substantial dialogue and political time for drafting the bills to have some value. When you stack the bill in a week of such a dense legacy, with one committee meeting behind the other, you look like you're trying to legislate on fast-track procedures. From there on, and on the articles, we analysed our positions and, in particular, after hearing the institutions, and referred to the following. On the occasion of Article 1 on the simplification of the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, we consider it particularly important to speed up the process of issuing the presidential decrees which will complete the procedure for setting up PDOs, as it is also a matter of areas such as Halkidiki. More generally, this is an issue concerning the exercise of aquaculture activity as a whole. In Article 2, as regards Article 90(3), which is introduced by this draft law, there is a question - we have heard it from the bodies that have been called - who is ultimately legalised to carry out veterinary activities. The issue for us is not just the 50-day deadline. There is an essential issue with the supervision and the competent control and licensing authorities, which often leads to the phenomenon of the patenting of the profession of veterinary surgeon. However, because there is a threat to welfare and public health, the Ministry must also take over and impose such sanctions. Article 3. Simplify the establishment and operation of a farm, breeding and marketing of pet animals. There is already a sufficient institutional framework laid down by No. 4039/2012 on the Ministership of Mr. Scandalidis. What we are asking is for laws already adopted and that is, of course, in the hands of the control mechanisms that you, Minister. Article 4. Simplification of the establishment and operation of livestock establishments. We believe that it is in the positive direction of any attempt to regulate the issue of livestock facilities by law. However, attention needs to be paid to selecting the site so that it does not adversely affect the environment and, of course, the review of the fines for farmers, especially in such a difficult period of time that you understand that they are unbearable. With regard to Article 6, the possibility of signing an ELGA contract with other bodies of general public interest, we have no objection. The question concerns workers and I think their representatives are now competent to speak. The Agency's work issues are quite sensitive and perhaps any regulation should not be stacked with other unrelated provisions. Article 7. It needs, as we can see, integrated spatial planning and cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, because the placement of high productivity photovoltaics, as you call it in the draft law, cannot be done with carelessness and haste. It's a study object. And it seems to us that the provision entitled 'Related Animal Casualties' in the final text is entitled 'Food Agricultural and Casualty Expenditure'. We believe that this provision should not be removed from the text of the draft law. At this point I will tell you that we have also tabled an amendment to this effect aimed at completing and making available the framework already set by Mr 4039/2012. With this proposed amendment, therefore, we have given the municipalities the opportunity to make it easier for them to establish and operate shelters for stray pets, as required by law, and finally to regulate the question of the proper management and reduction of stray animals. There is a clear view from the CEDEFOP. Article 9, we maintain our view that the premium should be reduced to EUR 70,000. Article 12, we have taken the view that the country of milking should appear on the packaging, and it is also an important and partly sketchy regulation for us which has not been commented on by the institutions and must be dealt with carefully to achieve its purpose. Article 14, in our view this regulation on the hunting of feral pigs is in a positive direction and should be enriched. Article 15, veterinary medicinal products. There was a relative provision in the very previous draft law, and we there had been assembled with the bodies talking about the placing on the market of unauthorised veterinary preparations in a legal manner, because there is no control. The simplification of procedures is important here, but we must not lose the essence. This is also a matter of public health, as the substances administered to animals go through the food chain and eventually to humans. Therefore, there is a need to intensify controls and tighter fines. Article 16 and 17, it is important to provide for equidae and we applaud it, and of course we are opposed to any form of farming of animals under the pretext or abuse of them. So because the bill also relates to issues of zoo-friendlyness, the exploitation of livestock, environmental issues, and many times public health, which are generally moving in the right direction, we think we have a duty at some point to support it. We did the same at some points in the previous bill, even though it was a processional one. We must make it clear that the failure to vote against the specific bill of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is not intended to resolve procedural issues, is not something that will be done all the time. We would point out, however, that we will not continue to support legislative initiatives by your Ministry unless we see the next few years of legislation with the essential reforms that the primary sector we have mentioned so many times in this Chamber in view of important issues that the primary sector currently has to deal with, such as the new CAP and the multiannual financial framework. From you, then, we want to see institutional initiatives on financial instruments that enhance farmers' liquidity, the NSRF programmes, the young farmers, the smart agriculture programmes, green production, the design to connect the primary sector to the reversal of the effects of climate change. More generally, what we want to see at last is vision, the mood of innovation for one of the main growth levers on which the so-called new productive model of our country in our economy, the primary sector that with the right motives and with real interest by your Government, if you like, can make miracles. We therefore call on you, Minister, to take the initiative and take the risk of bringing bold bills that will actually promote the agri-food sector and make the farmer a protagonist. Let's not waste any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u77	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, twenty-nine colleagues have been registered as speakers. We were too late this morning in view of the fact that it was also the President's greeting, but mainly parliamentary control was delayed. Because this afternoon there is the event in the Presidential Palace for the celebration of the restoration of democracy with the consent of this House, we propose that we set the speaker's time at six minutes. This does not mean that it will be kept unregulated, there is a margin for seven minutes, but there will be no abuse after seven minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u78	The House has agreed for six minutes with a slight tolerance. Please beg Mrs Manolakos, a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, to come to Stepma. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Forty-six years since the collapse of the military dictatorship, we honor all those who were tortured, exiled, imprisoned, persecuted by the junta, all those who have contributed against the dictatorship. We are proud, because the heart of this race was thousands of JRC and JRC members who even the places of exile were lands of resistance. I shall now move on to the bill. And this like all the bills of government have a class mark, favour monopolistic groups and take no measures of fundamental relief for self-employed, poor farmers and farmers who are literally despaired. Therefore, this bill does not concern small and medium-sized farms, i.e. bio-populist farmers, but the title ‘Simplification framework for economic activities concerning the Ministry of Rural Development’ is essentially for business groups only. You provide them with additional facilities in the procedures for establishing aquaculture units by effectively abolishing any on-the-spot checks with implied approval. It is known that the aquaculture sector is one-stop shopped by two groups that are grouping together and control 72% of production. Moreover, in your own policy, as well as in SYRIZA and other governments over time, the specialisation and implementation of the common fisheries policy in four axes: the reduction of coastal fishing, the promotion and development of the aquaculture sector, the strengthening of the manufacturing sector and the more general modernisation of the sector on the basis of the competitiveness strategy. In fact, it is no coincidence that for the koroni virus you have given most to the aquaculture sector, but continue with this bill. The farmers, however, have them in the 'expect.' For shipowners, the first instalment was 15 million, the second instalment was 15 million, and of course you did not expect any approval from the European Union. From the first, therefore, the control of aquaculture is weakened and may not be carried out at all on the spot, as the authorisation is granted automatically if, for any reason, the service cannot check within 50 days of the application. It is well known that the great shortages in services and recruitment are not. Thus, these large units can operate by polluting or occupying larger sea and land areas than their licence is defined and are not disturbed, not obstructed to their profitability. In fact, if we want to see in the food sector in our country, the fish is still a kind of luxury despite the domestic production potential that is very large, but their direction and direction are not in line with popular needs, but with the profitability that is very great. At the same time Greece is characterised by the much lower per capita consumption of fish in relation to the European average, but these are the capitalist production relationships which guarantee the profits of business groups at the expense of the majority of the population. And you and the other parties are not concerned with this, only with the profitability of the groups. That is why in the first article you are promoting the simplification of licences and other facilities in business groups. Of course, that's not all. They are accompanied by the provision of public property and incorporation into development laws. They enjoy most of the Community's resources, with a large number of tax exemptions and many other facilities. You are simple to business groups, since your doctrine is to improve the business environment. In fact, Article 13 grants public land without auction, directly, for strategic investments. Productive areas can go for hotels, golf and not just. At the same time, the auctioning of the first home progressed rapidly. You believe that the protection of the first home is a loss to the economy, as a government minister said, causing hundreds of thousands of people's homes who see the bank's nipple squeeze more and more. At the same time, SYRIZA has made sure that popular reactions against auctions are criminalised. Of course the current government - woeless! - He keeps it. Your class policy is also expressed in this bill. On the one hand, do you exempt large dairy and manufacturing plants from the costs of consumables and the costs of sampling in milk samples and we are talking about vials, chemical reagents, etc., and do you carry them where? In the "ELGO - DIMITRA". But you don't do the same for the farmers, who are given a special ending. The special fee only removes it from the dairy industries. But you don't stop there. And the employees of the "ELGO - DIMITRA" are coming to legislate on a refund of money that has been decided, and of course the court's decision is not about a refund, since these amounts come from the ELGO's own resources, which is a legal person of private law and which has the self-employed. Of course, we do not vote for this. The workers' multiple problems do not concern you. We submit to the Minutes a statement with their problems, essentially to learn. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, from the scattered articles of the bill with a different object, the ELGA cannot be missing. You are intervening with fragmentary corrections concerning the Staff Regulations, although you have agreed with the Workers' Association that it should be updated in full and not fragmented, thereby causing the concerns of the workers. However, these two articles have nothing to do with the acute problems of farmers who at the beginning of this month had mobilizations, because they had great disasters within the summer. Tens of thousands of crop acres were destroyed by the hail. Of course, the main demands were the immediate payment of the 35% balance for the 2019 losses, which is pending, and say that everything is settled. And it must put an end to the late, axed and gradual compensation for the affected, which, in the end, is the money of the farmers and they have paid beforehand. They certainly account for responsibility for all governments for the ELGA anachronistic regulation, which does not compensate 100% of the damage and the delays are up to sixteen months. ELGA's income is based exclusively on the insurance contributions of farmers and farmers, which cover fixed operational costs of ELGA, since no euro has been introduced since 2011, except this year. And what's ELGA doing? There is no reason why this regulation should be covered, with various pretexts, because you do not accept it. They're not compensated if the money isn't enough. Such problems do not solve this bill. Other plans you have for the ELGA and its privatisation. The fact is that the bill has been subject to many fires of pro-zootic organisations, until you have had to withdraw the second paragraph of Article 8. They shall also request the withdrawal of Article 3. But why so many protests? But there are problems with strays. The problem is perpetuated, enlarged and still untreated. It is therefore possible to create new farms, with many risks of even more straying being created, although today the government has taken the responsibility of the municipalities to deal with this huge problem. But the infrastructure and staff are poor. Not only does Article 3 give a solution, but we fear that it strengthens the problem. Of course, there are problems with damages, damages to agricultural crops from feral pigs. We recently had complaints that crops, which are in the development and harvest stage, were destroyed by multiplier groups of feral pigs. The problem is not solved as you describe in Article 14. Their reproduction will be perpetuated at risk and for the spread of African swine fever. You do not want to spend a single euro on dealing with issues that concern farmers wide. Forestry facilities for game handling may also be established on areas of a forestry character. This was never there in Greece, but there are other countries. These establishments belong to, or cooperate with, large luxury catering centres or special meat shops named on the market that have selective wild game. Inside these facilities, the offal is removed and then available for sale in these fine luxury restaurants and branded meat shops. The question is: Is this protection of fauna in forest ecosystems or a commercial process? You told us they'd be used exclusively for feral pigs. But this "exclusive" is not much more mentioned than it is infected with plague, it is not protected by removing the guts. Before I finish, I would like to place myself on the Community's resources and the recent summit, because a lot of talk is being done and made, but many myths and delusionals are being cultivated and a lot of fights are being made between the Government and Officer of Anti-Population. We have one to say. There are new burdens and a bond for the people of Europe, since the European Union is not only a gloomy one, but is hostile to the needs of the people. What is considered once again is not the height of the package, but the terms and final addressees, which is who will take them. The compromise that has been reached cannot hide the severe contradictions and competition which are plagued within this reactionary Union. With regard to the decisions on the Recovery Fund, they contain from one new terms and measures to the detriment of workers and the other large money to business groups, some of which will be directed towards further promoting flexibility in the labour market. You are fighting about the amount of the package for Greece, but to hide on what terms it is given, and who will eventually be fruited. You tell us that the European Union's staff do not need to impose memoranda, but the framework they put in, like the new supervisory mechanisms, which you have all agreed on, are carabine memoranda without the expiry date. You're propagandaing it's the biggest ever given. Let me tell you, however, that it is neither free nor credit nor unscrupulous. It is a new "skin in the neck" of the people, who will be asked to pay, by increasing taxation and reducing the social costs of education, health and welfare. For free lunch does not exist in the European Union and in order to "feed" the profitability of capital, our people have paid a lot. Only now, with his struggle, he has to say he will never pay again the "breaks of the capitalist crisis. Finally, the Communist Party is voting against the bill. It's not about small- and medium-sized farms. At the same time, we are addressing the majority of the bio-family farmers that there are two options. One, the capitalist way of producing, which leads to the destruction of most small and medium-sized enterprises, because of competition and monopolistic groups and concentration on capitalist farms, while those who survive will be in more unfavourable terms of life. The other option is the socialist way of production, namely the passage to social property, the scientific central planning of the production and distribution of social services, which will, of course, be accompanied by the socially-based industry, the state trade, the protection of natural phenomena, the prices of agricultural products which will serve the people and satisfy farmers for food products. We are talking about the superiority of a large socially organized production, which will guarantee farmers and all workers in the socialised sector, with better working conditions, resting conditions, recreation, free time and effective participation in the bodies of power. In other words, the socialist society. A word - and I am closing - on the ministerial amendment. We consider it positive. You have taken into account the farmers' mobilisations in Kastelli, Crete. The protests got a place for them. But for those who did not have a title and who were a grandpa's inheritance, of course, the expropriations are at degrading prices. For farmers, you always humiliated yourself. For businessmen, you are simple. Of course, the measures for purse seine fishermen also need measures to support coastal fishing, which are targeted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u80	The special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Viliardos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u81	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the first committee on the draft law, we have said that this is again a matter of discussion with various provisions, without a central idea, for something as important as our primary sector. Unfortunately, the government fails to understand its importance, as well as its technological development. So he cannot give the right direction to farmers, as he has to do. However, this will never achieve what New Democracy had promised in its 20-page programme, that is to say, GDP production of 15 to 20 billion from this sector of our economy. Of course, he had made no mention of how he would achieve it. Its failure, unfortunately, was, in complete contrast to our programme, the Greek Solution programme, which details our actions, with a view to much greater than EUR 20 billion. It does not understand, therefore, that we must finally change our economic model and stop the'monoculture' of tourism, a dangerous, that is, a pre-cyclical sector, which always collapses first when international economic crises emerge, which, in the context of neoliberalism, are much more frequent, legal, every ten years, and extremely dangerous for the medium-sized ones, much more for the lower income classes. As long as tourism is not used to support areas that need to be developed, primary, manufacturing and industry, at the same time, of course, with other measures, Greece will move from evil to worse. However, we have stressed, among other things, that it is necessary to increase the consumption of Greek products by our tourist businesses, by providing incentives. In addition, in our specific programme to address the consequences of COVID - 19, which we cost EUR 11.5 billion for budgetary measures only that should be taken immediately, we have proposed supporting our agricultural sector with a billion euros. Not only with the EUR 150 million provided by the New Democracy, when vouches of 200 million or now EUR 100 million for the import of electric cars from Germany, without even having a network of chargers. In the same committee, we also said that it is no longer possible to cover our huge trade deficits from tourism, when other countries, such as the Netherlands, with exports of agricultural products over EUR 100 billion a year, owes the agricultural sector 50% of its surpluses, of the figure of 10% of its GDP of USD 900 billion. Let alone, when 2020 increases not only our trade deficit from the drop in exports, but also our current account deficit, due to the collapse of our tourism revenues and, of course, the trade deficit. As usual, then, we are running behind the facts, rather than predicting them and making progress before they appear. One cannot, of course, expect much from a Ministry of Rural Development that his State Secretary did not know the difference in agricultural production from agricultural income, as was established in the previous plenary. Even when he has not yet realised that the primary sector specifically requires a central approach and methods such as those used by the Netherlands, Israel or Spain. We are now continuing with the two main parts of the draft law, which are the following. Firstly, the simplification of fishing activities, livestock and pet animals. Secondly, a wide variety of articles on animals, wild boars, stray dogs, pets and milk levies until the ban on the use of animals for spectacles and other repellents, which we really did not know are happening in our country, as well as final provisions. Finally, we have mentioned, for example, that the problem of fish farming is not to facilitate their creation, but Turkey, which fishes in our sea waters, produces at a lower cost, often without the European Union's standards, which naturally cost, and exports duty-free even to Greece. The proof that we submitted to the committee in the minutes is that we are exporting 100 eighteen thousand tonnes of fish today, while Turkey 100 fifty-four thousand, when only in 2010, ten years ago, we exported thirty-seven thousand tonnes and Turkey only sixty-eight thousand, half. In sum, exports of fish from Turkey have exceeded $1 billion, of which 60% to the European Union, including, of course, Greece, while there is no Greek restaurants today serving both here and abroad Turkish cigarettes. One further demonstration is the fact that there were eight large fish farms with capitalisation of EUR 353 million in 2008, and then planning to enter another six. Today only the three largest have red loans to the banks of around EUR 600 million, which means that if more money is made easier, as the bill says, without the problems being solved, there will simply be more problematic. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In this regard, our livestock farming is also suffering, where it should be borne at least by lower VAT, as we have proposed, especially with regard to border regions. One of the solutions which should be adopted immediately, however, is to make the country of origin compulsory for our products, which concerns both our internal market and those who want to buy Greek products by supporting their country and abroad. We have to say here that the sale of the Icelandic "feta" has stopped after our actions in the European Parliament through the only MEP we have. So we can do a lot of things if we just plan it and want it. The second committee referred to the summing up of the individual articles of the completely colourless, boring bill, as in the third, noting that we do not need to discover the wheel from the outset, since there are successful countries with similar successful systems that we simply have to copy. We do not claim, of course, that a proper legal framework is needed to resolve the problems caused by the existing one, but that this is only a matter of self-evident parallel action. In particular, in Article 7, which concerns the use of agricultural capital, we stressed that it is unacceptable to place photovoltaics on agricultural land, since there are huge other untapped areas in Greece. However, when, for many years now, Germany has not been subsidising the country of PVC on farmable or potential agricultural land. In Article 13 we said that it is good that they are exempted from the authorisation procedures of 20 years of age, but there must also be flexibility for other units, especially for small and sensitive border areas. In Article 16 we mentioned that it is necessary to facilitate the installation of photovoltaic panels on the roofs of the stacks for the needs of the plant, with a subsidy of course for their installation. Furthermore, we have mentioned the fact that bioenergy must also be subsidised since our country has very small production. This would significantly reduce the cost of the producer, much more if it were combined with electric means of transport, such as electric tractors. In such a debate, my colleague did not know them at all. The adoption of new technologies is now essential in the primary sector, however, when, for example, robots have already been used for herd grazing. Robots are also used for cleaning stables and harvesting, drones for spraying, smart water supply for vertical hydroponic farms and much more. And we are sure that in future the farmer will be the diplomat, while the office employee will be a low-payer. As far as Article 18 is concerned, we said that the extension was given with the aim of attracting foreign workers, and incentives should be provided to Greeks so that they could turn to agriculture. However, if I were at the start of my professional life, I would choose the agricultural sector, without any overreacting, of course, in its new form, technology. In conclusion, we have written so many articles about Greece's enormous primary wealth, in addition to our multipurpose analytical program, the Greek Solution program, which was natural to disappoint us once again the Ministry with its arteriosclerical and colourless bills, which have no vision of the future and offer hardly anything at all. All of this, without any sterile opposition criticism, since the reason why we entered the House was to offer as much as we can in Greece, helping any government to implement an effective policy for the benefit of the Greeks and not to establish laws to serve its voters or simply to justify its existence. Among other things, we have stressed that the most complete example in Greece is Israel, which before 1960 produced absolutely nothing, while the lack of water made it unlikely to be used for crops, which were of course minimal because of its territorial structure. A few decades later, however, he managed to produce in sand with the help of modern greenhouses, as well as the shading networks - we have little to do with Greece - which prevent pathogens from entering, while allowing only part of solar radiation to enter. It has solved the problem of water from the sea through the desalination plants, and it now produces everything. So Israel, having turned its problems into opportunities, while we Greeks had opportunities to problems, managed to win a leading position in water resource management and desalination technology. On the contrary, we want to sell out even our waters, which are called 'blue' international energy, obviously not randomly. And, of course, there is central planning on the part of the government of Israel, which guarantees minimum prices per product to farmers, and allows them to win on their own whatever amounts exceed the minimum prices, giving them proper incentives for investment and development. It has also managed to develop into an upcoming force in the production of specialized fertilisers, useful insects for organic farming, modern greenhouses, dictators, environmental control technology, etc., while Greece is doing absolutely nothing, it is only a bill. He has therefore understood Israel that the future lies in the production of intensification and technology and not only in basic primary production, while his farmers are somehow scientists who have nothing to do with the traditional in Greece. In this context, the Greek farmers, part of which is supported by the European Union's subsidies - the 20 billion that the government is now saying, some of the 72 billion, which is essentially the CAP which is renewed every seven years - so that they can continue to work in this difficult sector, could achieve miracles if they were modernised. Unfortunately, this is something that no Greek government has understood, and not today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Mrs Bakadimas, a special speaker of Mera25, who concludes the cycle of rapporteurs and special speakers and will be followed by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law introduced by the Ministry of Rural Development is designed to simplify the framework of its economic activities, which aims - at least as stated in the explanatory statement - to simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, veterinary laboratories, veterinary clinics, pets, livestock facilities and much more. The bill contains 21 articles and came to the House for discussion and vote just one day after the public consultation process was completed, a public consultation that lasted two weeks and brought together over five hundred comments. It is certainly a small bill, given the previous bills that the government has used to us, which are extensive and are usually multi-brushed. However, the very fact that it was tabled one day after the public consultation makes us wonder whether the Government considers the public consultation to be serious. Because, as we can all understand, it is quite difficult to process - as quickly as possible - five hundred and fifty-five comments and to judge which one needs to be integrated and which one does not and incorporate those that are positive. Moving on, then, I will soon go to the first chapter of the legislation, which is dedicated to the simplifications I have mentioned. Let us remember that the simplification of procedures to speed up the authorisations of economic activities has been one of the most important narratives of both the government and the Memorandum Governments and the Memorandumary Policies of the last decade. However, contrary to what you would expect, it does not move into the logic of combating irrational bureaucracy and is not governed by an attempt to create legal certainty in economic activities. On the other hand, we believe that its aim is, in the end, to deregulation of the environmental protection framework, quality of life and spatial planning for the benefit of investors' demands. It is no coincidence that the simplification of procedures is always about and aims to speed up them, essentially prejudgeing that everything is allowed and, ultimately, licences in an organised state are simple acts of accreditation. Nor do we see anything going on in the field of land use and management plans, that is to say, at the level of planning, which, of course, is the only one that can ensure legal certainty for individuals and lead to the real speeding up of the procedures, as we can know where an activity can be carried out or not, so finally, the authorisation can also come out faster. The lack of spatial planning, combined with the lack of control mechanisms, transforms the whole process of simplification into a process of legitimisation of any arbitrary or harmful activity to the benefit of certain individuals, ultimately to the detriment of society as a whole. If we look at the articles in the first chapter, these relate to activities that are not compatible with the European framework for the quality of the environment and animal welfare - for example, directives on birds and pigs - which have been charged with the quality of their operation - for example, for formol and aquaculture - at the expense of consumers' health and animal welfare. Also, the specific proposals for changing spatial planning for aquaculture to calculate the sea-by-air capacity and not by regional section may ultimately lead to overloaded maritime units separated by administration. For example, in Saronics we can see fish farms of Attica in Poros, Methana, Salamis and next to the villages of Corinthia and Argolida. So the only thing for sure is that we will end up in over-saturated seas. A characteristic example is part of my region, Salamis, where the fish farms are so many so that the island has been overcrowded. Fortunately shellfish has been banned in the area. Nevertheless, it is so burdensome for the ecosystem to be able to recover from fish farming, and it must sincerely be banned from all kinds of fish farming at the point of view. It is now invoked by the Ministry, under the second article, that it is trying to simplify the procedures for the approval of veterinary and veterinary clinics. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest. During the pandemic period we have seen no substantial measures to support veterinarians, no exceptional aid, no rent reductions, no suspension of VAT and insurance contributions, no recognition that it was also a sector which was hit by the pandemic, and even now, after the reopening period of both veterinary and veterinary clinics, both see their turnover falling every day and face up to the economic abrupts of the pandemic. Article 2 retains the possibility for a private person to open a veterinarian or a veterinary clinic without being the same doctor, only by defining a scientific expert responsible. This opens the way to the creation of clinics and vets by private and investors and not exclusively by doctors. Instead of taking initiatives to support doctors and to combat the phenomena we have seen in recent years, we simply see how the profession can be opened. As far as Article 3 is concerned, we have to point out that it is extremely handy. It will lead to total immunity of breeders, resulting in an increase in strays. You said, Minister, that it is a little romantic and that this thought is not entirely political. The truth is that we in this matter prefer to be romantic. Nevertheless, we do not think that, unless the conditions are stricter, there are no incentives for the adoption of stray animals, there is no increase in fines and we do not maintain that the law will be implemented, unfortunately we will have the perpetuation of a phenomenon and a problem that does not honor us as a country of the 21st century. Let's move on to second chapter. This touches on a number of other issues of the Ministry, such as animal-blocking penalties, regulation of supervised bodies and subsidies for EUGO and ELGA in the direction of mitigating subsidies and settlements. Here we have the continuation of facilitating their declassification by forests, which has already started with the anti-environmental - as we believe is - a law by Mr Hatzidakis, which was passed a few months ago, the breeding of game and the hunting of feral pigs with graceful arrangements for hunters to deal with a problem that they created with unreasonable importation of game. We also consider Article 7 to be extremely wrong that the policy of exploiting high productivity agricultural areas for photovoltaics is extremely wrong and should be banned. Furthermore, it should be defined and specified precisely which areas are identified as such. In addition, it provides for a change in land use in buildings within high productivity areas and for processing activities, which may in the long term serve as a ferry for the expansion of arbitrary construction. We consider it necessary to ensure that new arbitrary land is not created in high productivity land. Article 14 concerns wild boar hunting and game-handling establishments. Certainly we cannot recognise that there are serious problems with increasing the population of feral pigs with the most important African plague, the existing risk of eliminating the net blood and crop damage caused by the large population. After all, a few days ago, we saw the latest pictures from McCorkomi, where feral pigs had even entered the homeyards in search of food. However, we cannot consent and accept their pregnancy in the next period, nor by way of derogation, as provided for in the draft legislation under discussion, especially in the inhumane way that is being done today. After all, we must note that it is Merra25's standing position that we should prevent living creatures from being killed for entertainment purposes. We should learn to coexist with nature, visit the nature, forests, the oaks of our country to observe and photograph the animals and not to shoot them. Surely, as I said before, the problem of overpopulation of feral pigs is a real problem. We can't close our eyes. We want to exclude the solution to pregnancy and, at the same time, to set up a committee of experts to look at this issue and see what solutions could be found. Also to ensure that the disease is not spread from illegal pregnancy because, for example, the transport of game by hunters without respect for any health protocols, ensure that the game establishments do not aggravate the problem by releasing indiscriminately sick people, since these facilities have created the problem from the outset. In closing with Article 17, we fully agree with the ban on the use of each animal in all kinds of spectacles and other relevant activities. In addition, we find it necessary to ensure that animals are not abused because of popular traditions and that, on the one hand, we should concentrate and take initiatives to ensure that wild animals are observed through documentaries or other audiovisual means and not in zoos so that children understand that they belong to their environment and not to a cage. In conclusion, on the basis of the specific article that we consider can in fact be a basis for imposing a fee on all practice of public exposure and animal suffering, we have tabled a brief addition - an amendment, which actually comes to stop the abusive practice of using animals. For example, we have seen in many festivals surrounding bulls and other animals. We see other times in fans at Christmas that there are live sheep and other animals, using the holiday decors. Minister, I would like to ask you to accept the amendment, because it is not really something new, it simply comes to adding a small parameter, but important to the proposed article in your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u84	Thank you to Mrs Bakadima, in which she completed the course of speeches by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We will now give the floor to the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't know how the President of Parliament forgot what is going on today a few miles away from here, but I am sad that he is also a knowledgeer of history and he knows the Greek language very well. In a little while - and I'll do it, because no one thought about it - in Agia Sophia changing the function and becoming a mosque. All those who fight for human rights - and I refer to the Left, False Left - of all minorities, of all religions did not find a word to say today. It's a little offensive to my intelligence. Let's say two things about St. Wisdom, it doesn't hurt, it's not bad. I would prefer to have a minute' s silence, if anyone wanted to, but the President of Parliament did not think about it. What does Saint Wisdom mean? I won't tell you about her spiritual background. It is the greatest masterpiece of Byzantine architecture. According to Procopio, they believed that this temple is not a sacred human effort and construction - Procopius writes it - or technically, but had - the action of God. If one counts about sixteen hundred years - despite the seventy-two earthquakes in Istanbul, where some of them were scary, seven shooters, it is the only building that remained standing - only of this could we understand the grandness of this building. The wise arrangement of the dome, the drum, the spherical hemiths above and all, the weight distribution, how the columns were so made, the arches so that the weight goes to the basements, to the pits of the church. It's a scary creation. If we had an architect here, he could tell us better - I imagine - because architects know how difficult it is to keep the stagnation of a century-old building upright. The harmonious combination within - I don't know how many people you've visited - the colors, the marbles, and all that obviously, obviously, I'd say, show a grand monument that is the same as the Parthenon - this is what Stein says, a well-known historian and a man who deals with science - and the Vatican, St. Peter. Of course, I think that, on a scale, Agia Sophia is much more important and more good than Saint Peter and, above all, of course, as compared to the Parthenon, it is another thing. So this marvelous monument of Anthemius and Isidorus today is being raped, today being exaggerated, is actually being dogged by the fascist Erdogan. It is worth wondering - I repeat - that no one on the left or the fake left, who fight for all rights from the cannon terier, to Pakistani or Greek, to protest about the violence of the police, no one was mentioned. I'm also a philosopher. You know, I personally have two dogs and a kitten, but I'm saying that to understand the specificity of left-wing sensitivity. They are only sensitive when they refer to some Dimitria, some human rights, something Helsinki Watch, some strange guys, mercenaries of Soros and other organisations, the UN, UNESCO and all of this. They didn't make it today, that's all. They don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u86	You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u87	I am referring to Dimitris now at the Helsinki Watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u88	Oh, no. You said left parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u89	Oh, I thought so. I said Dimitris, "Helsinki Watch". Are you ‘Helsinki Watch’? You're not. I said fake left, I don't know if you heard it. Are you a fake left?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u90	You said left parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u91	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u92	I'm trying to explain about the shared mood. And for you still, you'd have made a little report or something. If it was for police violence, you'd all be on the bench! Guys, now don't pull the tire, I'm trying to be consensual. I said fake left. I repeat, if you're fake left, it's another matter. You're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u93	...you're wrong. You're putting a political issue on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u94	Let's actually go. Guys, what you're doing is wrong. The Rules of Procedure are in breach. You're breaking him by the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u95	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u96	I may be wrong, but your fault is that you are violating the Rules of Procedure. It's not appropriate, it's not right. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u97	You're putting a political issue on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u98	Otherwise, I told you, Demetra, 'Helsinki Watch', human rights, movements. But you're not them. You're a political party. You're messing with it. Unless you're still at 2% and you think you're a movement. You're not. You are opposition to the New Democracy, but you still have the cucumbers and pathogens of the supposed 2% and 1.5% movements. You have these, the hooeys don't change. The wolf was creamed and asked where the sheep were going. That's what you remind me of now. Stop! I am not talking about you, I said 'Helsinki Watch', I said strange movements, Constantine, the known Peter who is fighting for Pakistani rights. There's no mention of any of this. Don't have the fly and you smell. Let's go to the bill. Look, Minister, I understand that you are neither a farmer nor a fisherman. I understand that. You are a lawyer, a law lawyer from the best in Greece, and I also certify that, because I have heard you in the courts, but you brought a bill to simplify - it says - the procedures. That's a central idea. Does this draft law achieve simplification of procedures? I'll tell you how not. I will not give examples like this, cut off or cut off. In place of authorisation to establish and operate a new condition, ‘approval to establish and notify function’ shall be introduced. Minister, the troika has become institutions, the institutions have become - I know - something else, that is what you remind me of. You change words, give other concepts and terms just to do the same thing. Here we have two procedures instead of one, at least two titles instead of one at first. The problem is not the Ministries. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak frankly in here. He was in here, and Mr. Cookes the Minister. It's not the Ministries or the Ministers. Don't be fooled. It's all the structure of the state underneath, all of it. We have built a state, Minister, since 1974, New Democracy, PASOK after SYRIZA for a while, the people have not been able to do anything. Although I do not think they could do anything, because they do not know how to do anything, but I will say this which is a political comment, to be serious: all the officials underneath are parties, either PASOK or New Democracy. So I'm going up, I'm saying, Kokalis, SYRIZA's Agriculture Minister, underneath is the Director and the Deputy Directors of the New Democracy. It's never going to work. It is the bad attitude of those officials who have no criteria, precisely the whole system has no guarantee, without preconditions, without prerequisites, without backgrounds, who say in international terminology, without - if you like - the ability. Their only capacity was the green card in PASOK - I say - or the blue one in New Democracy, the 'pink' of SYRIZA, the 'yellow' of another party. That is why the Minister, and if he wants - I don't know if he wants it, I think the Minister wants - he can't run this agency. Unfortunately, the ministries are small businesses and large businesses. If the officials of the ministries are not working properly, nothing will go ahead. That is the reality, that is the pathogenesity of the public sector, which you are now raising, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Why do you have a solid recruitment, gentlemen of the New Democracy, without an APA, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Thousands of people are at ease. That's the truth. You made appointments. Do you want me to give you examples? This is where you went and put the other waitress in the cage, you guys, now. Are you kidding me? You put the CFP in view of national issues that kept the American Embassy. Don't tell you the rest. You don't have to. Don't go into personal matters and controversy. It's your mentality. Because by serving your party clientele you have in the tank of your voters ready for voters, no matter what. Thirty thousand will you do it now? For five votes, they are a hundred and fifty thousand crosses. That's how you figure them out. You don't expect these people to enter a state mechanism, a public agency, and they won't work, because they don't know how to work. And I'm telling you, to understand it. You're obsessed. We risk, Minister, and I say this directly - from pluralism all the time. A month and a half ago you brought in a new bill, Minister. A month ago, wasn't it the other bill? You brought back a second. I don't understand what it takes in a month to get two bills. And we're actually going to the point. Which country, my Minister, on earth - you have Screka next door from Thessaly - where you have to plant seed, grow the tree, fruit, collect the primary production, standardize it and send it abroad, give me photovoltaics? Why do you put photovoltaics on me? The future is water and food. For those you don't know and don't see, from 2025 to 2040 all the big think tank worldwide say that the two poles of conflict are water and food. You in the plain, which will be fertile and fertile, go get irons inside to make photovoltaics. You are going to deprive the earth of the right to fruit, on the mother - earth, on the mother - earth. Crime is this: it's a real crime. You're destroying the earth. You destroy what can produce wealth. I also have to remind Maki Voridis - because he knows me personally - that in Germany for three years, my Minister, photovoltaic land has been banned. It's not subsidized. They don't give a single euro. You are now coming, after 3 years that Germany has decided to ban, to grant a subsidy to the PVs. If this is not called suicidal ideaion or is not called the murder of the agricultural sector, what is it? You tell me to discuss it seriously. And he speaks to you, a man who is not his or his character or his science, agricultural production, but has been working on the primary sector for a few years. I'm personally working on it. And he does have money, Minister, the primary money. He was saying that, if he was younger now, he is not younger now, he has grown up - he would be in the primary sector. Not all of us can grow tomatoes and lettuce, but we can go through the fifth generation of agricultural production to move to another stage, what we do, I in my business. We had a printery, and we shut it down, it's not working. But we remain firmly in the primary sector for exports, for product specialization. What Israel, the Netherlands, did, Mr Minister, and others did. It's not something you'll find out. You make me a very nice one. We are obliged, he says, to the dairy industries, when they produce milk, to say their origin. Okay. That's good. The point is that until he arrives there, my Minister, the milk will then be baptized by your friend there in Thessaly who has the name of Olympus or our friend at "MEBGAL" or I don't know which company, he will say it is of Greek origin. How's the check going to be done? At the customs office in Bulgaria, set up the checks to see how we spend nights in ice-cream tankers. I'm flattered by the bone. Go over there. There check where the milk comes from. Not when he arrives, obliging the industrialist, who buys money from the farmer's pocket rape, who rapes his psychology and just him every day, to get low prices. Am I wrong, Mr. Haracopoulou? He's blackmailing him. Extortionists are the dairy industries. The reality is that. Because the farmer knows that I produce milk and I take it from Bulgaria and Romania without any control. And let me tell you something. We have reduced the CAP - you know - by 5%. They're down. That's it. From 1.9 billion to 1.8. And what you're doing, I'll explain it to you in a little document, Minister. You may not have been informed at all. I'll tell you right away. Now listen, Minister. You are subsidising the destruction of the vineyards. I want you to explain this to us how you do it, why it is technically possible. Because I asked vineyard growers and they tell me that this is murder. The other one's picking up, throwing it away, I don't know what you're doing with it. Tell us why you choose that. We're going to something else and I'm filing the document in front of you, Minister. Listen, Greek state, ladies and gentlemen. Fishing programme. The Minister's not responsible. Listen to the hurricanes. I keep saying it. For fisheries it is the Minister for Maritime Affairs. But in the fisheries programme, in the LEADER grant programme, Mr Minister, I give you the document here, it is yours, your government - you are subsidising from cafeteria to gymnasiums! [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the fisheries programme instead of the fishermen taking the money, Mr Minister, to see your advisers back - money is being given to cafés, 7,000 euros! Beekeepers are persecuted by photovoltaic owners you want to put. How will the country produce wealth? You do not exclude fishermen from paying the trade fee. How will the country produce? You tell me. If you tell me how, I'm with you. I won't say about Crete, where poor Cretans' products, so that they don't get to dumps, people give them free, theojaba. When we say free, free. Of course, I would now like to go to two-three news, which all the channels have hidden. MEPs of the New Democracy, the Change Movement and SYRIZA. There was a resolution today, if I'm not mistaken, and we asked with Amendment No 14B that we should stop funding for Turkey. It's done by others. She did not vote for any Greek party. Why? Yesterday afternoon it happened. Why, you guys? Resolution regular. And New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. Let's go down. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to Listen to what you've done now. You are asking for money for illegal immigrants and asylum, not to reduce funding, but at the same time, the European Parliament is passing through and the funds for good neighbourliness in Turkey, Albania, Skopje. That is what you requested - another resolution is - not only SYRIZA, but also New Democracy. This all shows that we in the European Parliament have to do something about it. We have done so, ladies and gentlemen. Today, Minister, I will show you something that shocked me: South African Olives! As you hear. Callamon, though! Standardization in a jar in a Greek supermarket. Mr. Minister, Kalamon Olives, South Africa and Egypt. I leave it in the Minutes and that. Here it is. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From South Africa and Egypt! The Greek State reflexes nothing. What do we care? We as Greek Solution submitted an urgent request to the Minister responsible for Trade to impose sanctions. We did it with the Iceland feta. We obligated the European Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament alone, to take all of Iceland's supermarkets down from all the Iceland's slices, which are referred to as ‘ Iceland's slices’. A MEP! Can not all the Members gather together and fight for these products? Turned Turkish pie. Listen. Cosanitis. Where are the Kosanites here? The whirlwind - says it up - Turkish in England is circulating by thousands. Cosanite pie. Our products, guys! [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Make your ministry five advisors see all day online and move quickly through service actors and services to stop this story. Is it difficult for a Member of the European Parliament to do so? If you can't do it, we can do it. We have a team dealing with these issues. What's easiest of this thing? Here, Minister. She's a Turkish cosmic. You may not like it, but it's going to London and Germany, Düsseldorf. Cosanite pie! Christ and God bless you! They take us all the brand names, kids, that is feta, what's there, and nobody's reacting. It's the Greek people's money that's lost. And now we are going to the things that have been heard before, and I have to make two minutes reference to Greek-Turkish. Mr President, today I liked you at SKAI. You're off the New Democracy line, of course. You did good. Well done. If they see "SCAI" today, the voters of the New Democracy must be satisfied with the old Vorides with national views, patriotic views. Totally different from what the New Democracy says. Kastelorizo - very well you say - is around, while others say it's far away. You said it different and good for you. I want to make something clear about the Greek solution. Ladies and gentlemen, for us what Titus Livios said is now true. The common risk is our strongest bond. It will keep people together, even when there are mutual disillusionments and a lack of trust. We all have to understand that. I may dislike anyone in here, we may not agree, but Turkey's common risk must make us all steel and steel. Let's leave our disagreements behind, whatever our disagreements, because the danger is at risk. They've changed the name of Agia Sophia today. It's not Saint Sophia anymore, I don't know if you've found out. It's over, they switched labels and they call it different. The Minister of Interior said soilu. They changed the name. That's it. They want to change the name of the Aegean Sea. They did special deeds. You know that? To change the name of the Aegean Sea, to make it different. I'll tell Erdogan something, and I'll close here, Mr. President. When you cover the truth and beddings, it's the one he put on mosaic jewelry the other day, you prove that you're a descendant of real directors from Mongolia, and the place you deserve is in the fence bags. Because these jewels you don't cover. In other words, when I saw this picture, ladies and gentlemen, I was shocked. Bédédes over the mosaics. Of course - as I said to the Prime Minister yesterday, and I will say it again, to understand it correctly - there are no friends. Our problem is not just 'PIRI REIS'. You've all made a mistake in New Democracy. I told the Prime Minister. I don't know if he heard. There are a hundred and seventy-five fishing vessels now running around the Aegean Sea. I don't know if they've got any tops, I don't know if they've got tops, I don't know what's up there, but they're running around. They don't fish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u99	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u100	No, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u101	Since what you're saying isn't true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u102	Please don't interrupt. Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u103	What's the matter is you'd better let me know about it. I'm talking to the Prime Minister, Mr. Comrade. You don't talk to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u104	Did the Prime Minister tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u105	Please, there's no record of anything you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u106	So I'm saying, we don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u107	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u108	My Greeks, are they wrong? Are my Greeks wrong? Are my Greeks wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u109	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u110	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u111	I said we don't know. The man can't understand. I say we don't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u112	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Velopoulou, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u115	This thing can't be done right now. If the other one doesn't understand! I say, we don't know if they're carrying, I'm not saying we know. Jesus Christ and Mary, that is! We don't know, I say. In the seas the Greeks move ships that we don't know what they have. Don't you understand? International Navy Rule allows you to be young. That's what I'm saying, young people. Have we done a novelty? Oh, no. That's what I'm saying. We don't know. Our Greeks should be fine and understand. Legally, by SWL, Greek port is allowed to do fasting. One sample to do, one, not more, to know what's wrong with it. Is it so hard for people to understand? I'll say the following. Stop fairy tales with Germany. No Germany has intervened, and so has DEUTSCHE WELLE, no war. There's tension. No phone's down, don't be fooled. The Prime Minister was at an event when the call was made. We had to talk! But I will say: he wants us to be careful. The Turks, by November, will provoke it, it's for granted. And now don't do it, they'll do it later. I hope, of course, that what is circulating on the journalistic street, no guns no shops and no flags in the Aegean Sea, does not apply here. I hear that there is a mutual agreement, no challenges, that is to say neither we mining and research nor the Turks. Again, as happened in Imia with Mr. Simitis. The treason of the whole region. Don't do it now. And let me tell you about the American friends. Here, the JRC is absolutely right. Eighty-six votes in favour, fourteen against Erdogan, gentlemen. Yesterday in Congress, your American friends! For giving Piat Alexandroupolis! And the Greek general says hello to Piat! Where have you seen this, man? May the general greet the Greek ambassador? What protocol does that apply to? Does the Greek general say hello to Ambassador Piat? There are no friendships. I'll tell you something, let people wake up in here to end the story. "Bake, Minister, your shipowners' friends - the New Democracy has many shipowners' friends and five thousand Greek ships give 1,3 billion euros to the Turkish shipyards, where the Greeks take them to make them maintenance, construction, etc. - to stand up to circumstances. Make our own shipyards, finally, stay here the Greeks' money. Here, in Greece. And if you're guys, you also impose sanctions. To those shipowners who go to Turkey, sanctions. Who's gonna do that? Shipowners and New Democracy, it's like calling men and women married together. It doesn't change, it's the New Democracy lobby, they all have good relationships, unfortunately or happily, and I say it to understand it. I could quote too much. It is the well-known, too many arguments for countermeasures. But I will just give you one example. Last night China and the United States closed consulate with each other. One in Houston and the other in Chengdu. There is tension in the two countries. Can't you close the verb in Komotini? Close the dirt in Komotini! We don't need it. Close Andrianoupolis you and the story is over. The story is over, and we close the consulate in Komotini, work there two service actors, and not be a wedge and stir issues. Do not sign the resolution on Agia Sophia vice mayors? Refusing to sign? If I had a Minister of Interior, I'd ask for their apology now. I didn't sign it, why? I'm telling you a few things as an answer. In closing, I'll tell you something Mr. Voridis knows about, because he's one of those people who've read history. I'll tell you something about Colkotronis. I'll tell you what he was saying and I'm talking about the United States and Germany. Kolokotronis said: "If you long for freedom, don't hope to strangers. Just let yourself know if you can, or you don't deserve it." Colokotronis said that, and Mr. Voridis knows that. It has glowing patriotics, as this morning, but I want them to be timeless, Mr Vorides, because we are sometimes unfair to our choices, to ourselves and to Greece. Of course, I'll close with something Tasos Livadite said. I'm telling all the MPs in here. I can disagree with anyone, I can be dislike to anyone. I will read it to you in such a way as to "and when they don't die for each other, we are already dead by the Greeks. It must be next door to each other if the evil occurs, which will never happen to the war, to stand by each other, because otherwise we are already dead." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u116	The Minister has the floor for three minutes to make a small speech, and then we shall start with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I intended not to interfere in the procedure and wait until the end, to listen to all my colleagues. The President's intervention simply encourages me to make a number of telegraphs. Firstly, the position I presented this morning, which I defended, which you referred to - and I am glad you praised, and the fact that you agree - is not just my position - and even as you have presented it with a different position - is not just the position of the New Democracy, it is the position of the Greek Government. And the position of the Greek Government is that in every way and by every means, we will defend our national sovereignty unreservedly. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is something that the Prime Minister himself has spoken about and those who know Mr Mitsotakis are aware of. Self-evidently, it is the position of the Greek Government that Kastelorizo, like all our islands, has a continental shelf, has an AEZ. They have all our islands, however far away they are, as provided for by International Maritime Law. This is the position of the Greek Government, it's not my position. It goes without saying that dialogue with Turkey is not taking place on the basis of threats, blackmails and unrealistic claims. These are positions of the Greek Government. I would also like to clarify two points which you have referred to. Firstly, you have spoken outrageously about people who work in public administration, saying they serve party interests and do not cooperate with their party preferences with their political leadership. I do not know what examples you refer to, but because we are discussing a bill from the Ministry of Rural Development, I have to defend the people who work at the Ministry. I mean, I don't know their party minds, I haven't asked them, they haven't bothered me, but I have to say that they work exemplarily, they are people who help us and help us very much and, therefore, I think you are wrong with this position of high quality, at least working at the Ministry of Rural Development. You referred to recruitment, and indeed to recruitment, which is generally carried out by the government. Because I am concerned that I will accept a wave of citizens' requests to appoint them and will wait tomorrow for colleagues to be placed and we should explain why we cannot satisfy any such request, to inform you that the only recruitment we have in the Ministry of Rural Development is the ones scheduled by the previous political leadership of an eighty-seven or eighty-three recruitments - I do not remember the exact number - where the normal procedure of the AACC for these recruitments is of course followed. Another recruitment, which I know, does not exist, but if you know anything, let me know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u118	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u119	It could be useful for everyone, I don't know what to say. The next thing, which I would like to say, concerns the LEADER programmes, to which you have referred. Look, it is precisely what you say, but the 'LEADER', firstly, are governed by a European regulation. That is therefore a framework that we are implementing. It is a European regulation and is regulated by it. Secondly, they form part of a more general logic of regional development rather than of close rural development. What does that mean? It means that they are funding, which, I say, we do not have the possibility, for example, to say that we are not giving them. It is also very popular, I have to say, the 'LEADER's'. They are programmes which have a very high demand and whose general logic is, not just to integrate themselves into a rural development strategy, such as improvement plans, such as processing - we have other measures for them - but broader regional development, which means that to stay in one's village - I say in general - you may also need to finance a café or finance a accommodation or a hostel or to finance more things. So you must judge the 'LEADER'. For the photovoltaics you said, let me say that in this bill we do nothing about photovoltaics. Only one provision is repeated for legal reasons. I am going to go further, and I am going to go further. What the device contains as an additive, this device, has nothing to do with photovoltaics. It is about the possibility of existing buildings, which have lost their original use, to allow them to use agricultural processing. That's what we're doing in this bill, we're not doing anything else. The whole of the order does not mislead you, it is only for reasons of legislative excellence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u120	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, please speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u122	It can't be a minute. I'll give you three minutes, but I'll beg you to keep the time. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, we've been sharing in the past very well. Ever since you became Minister, it seems to me. Did I say all civil servants are like that? I said the public sector is a structured party. It's something we've been talking about in the past and in private many times. Unless the Minister of Justice changes your placement and you change it now. That's your right. I insist on that. I didn't say all the civil servants. Don't blame everyone. We don't put the whole world in the bag. Secondly, you said some things this morning. I don't want to escalate. Hold on to the Minutes what I'm going to tell you now. Don't listen to your government for reduced influence on the EEZ with Egypt, then resign. As a government, I mean, not you. Don't listen to the government for reduced influence on the EEZ with Egypt! Because this morning you were telling me that Kastelorizo has a continental shelf, it has an EOZ. I do not want to hear the words'reduced influence'. I'm stopping here because it's a national matter. Let's go to the next one. Final state. Look, recruitments can't be yours anyway. Only in the state at last are a thousand recruits. But the New Democracy doesn't hire. Your ministry may not do, but at least a thousand people are with the perfect state. It's your bill. Read it, to be informed, Minister. I'm not saying you hired. You're a member of a government. I am amazed that you have confirmed, unfortunately, that we have no intervention as a country to correct even the bad texts of some of the European Union's programmes. Here I was telling you about a lot of Greek products, I was expecting the Minister to tell me that he would do a monitoring mechanism for the stolen Greek products, feta, twister, Kalamata, so that we could have reflexes, but you did not say that. But you were telling me. Tell me this, to be with you, to help you. We intend to help with the experts we have. We can do it. Of course, to end the conversation here, you should know one thing, Minister. The Greek Solution has entered here to help you. We don't want to make any disputes between us, nor to fight, nor to find ourselves. I'll tell you for the last time: do you need help in this matter? We're at your disposal. We can help you. A Member of our Parliament cannot have forced the state of Iceland - take care, state! - through the European Union Trade Commissioner to take the feta out of all supermarkets, a Member of the European Parliament, to achieve the same thing as the Kalamata olives today and not to have a government that has so many good people, trained, intelligent and reflexive. Ten we are, one we have, let us do it together at least all the Members. That's what we asked. We have not criticised you, because it is a pathogen of decades, it is not a current phenomenon. Do you need any help? This is for home. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u124	We start the list of speakers. The first speaker, who is called in Stepma, is Mr. Ljupis Athanasios from New Democracy. Mr. Famelos, Mr. Economou and Mr. Stamenitis will be followed. Mr. Ljupe, you have the floor for six minutes with tolerance, as we have decided.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill the Ministry of Rural Development, which has brought together many years-long problems of its competence and has given solutions. In fact it is one of the cases that with small changes major steps are being taken forward. Once again the government is engaged in the well-known battle against bureaucracy. Today's legislative initiative is drastically changing the times and procedures for the authorisation of the establishment and operation of units...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u126	Please, ladies and gentlemen, respect the speaker. Go on, Mr. Lippi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u127	Maritime aquaculture shall be issued a licence for establishment and operation before the establishment of the unit, without any authorisation being required in second time during the operational phases. The important changes brought about by the bill are the 50 days period within which authorisation must be issued for the establishment and operation of veterinary clinics, veterinary veterinarians and pet animals. The decisive thing in this is that if 50 days are passed, silent authorisation is considered. Therefore, anyone who wishes to start such an operation is not caught in the gears of bureaucracy. In fact, 80% of the offender is given to the LAGs in an effort to strengthen local government bodies. Article 5 of the bill covers an important legislative gap. For the first time, fishing and homicide have been identified as offences. Fishing is one of the most profitable and growing sectors of the primary sector with a significant contribution to the export power of Greece. The annual sales of the industry exceed EUR 500 million. The ELGO - 'DIMITRA' Agency is doing, as we all know, a worthwhile job and a role in the development of the agricultural sector. The provisions that come today to be voted reintroduced the right to conclude the "DIMITRA" programme contracts with the OTAs in a crucial opportunity for their implementation. Also important are the simulation of ELGO research staff - "DIMITRA" to the rest of the country's research staff in terms of rights and obligations. The bill contains rules that allow the use of buildings existing on high-quality agricultural land for rural activities. These buildings can now be changed and used for processing agricultural products. This solves the chronic problem created by buildings, which have remained wilderness and unexploited. The maximum compensation of EUR 70,000 per beneficiary by the ELGA, which is doubled, however, when it comes to double cultivation in the year, namely spring and autumn. This streamlines the system of compensation by the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency. We have to save resources for many small farmers. To date property owned by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food could be granted to individuals with the possibility of withdrawing the concession at any time. With a view to creating a climate of security and stability for investment, it is no longer allowed to withdraw the concession if twenty years have elapsed since the concession. The procedures for strategic investments in public property managed by the Ministry of Rural Development shall be accelerated and simplified. Investments that have been incorporated into development laws may be granted without auction. One of the problems faced by farmers - both farmers and Magnesia in my prefecture - is the great catastrophes suffered by crops and agricultural production due to the multiplication and uncontrolled action of feral pigs. The wild boar port is now legal throughout the year in an attempt to provide a solution. A new extension of up to 31-10-2020 is given for regular general assembly in agricultural cooperatives due to the rules of social distances due to the coronary. It is also very necessary to extend the period until the end of the year to allow foreigners to enter third countries to work in farms, but also in livestock and free farming. The amendment tabled yesterday changes the status of purse seines in order to reduce excessive restrictions. purse seine fishing is prohibited during July and August only during the day, but is permitted during the night. Of course, the most important thing for the people who work in the purse is insurance, Mr Minister, and indeed the insurance of foreign workers, which we should probably see in a forthcoming bill with the Ministry of Labour. It is important, Minister, that this bill, like all that has been submitted to date, is to develop, fight red tape and simplify procedures. Today's bill shows that rural development is a priority of the government. The principle was made by many and important regulations, such as the one to tackle the phenomenon of illegal Hellenism. It continues with the current provisions that give way to a number of issues which are afflicting the rural world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. After I, too, began with the pain of all of us for the loss of Dimitris Rizzos, my colleague and colleague, and my condolences to his family, as my colleague, the rapporteur, has done, I would like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that today's anniversary, the anniversary of 24 July, is not just a reminder of the day of the Republic. It is not enough to say only about the day of democracy, but also about the need to fight for it and the need to resist those who are reducing or questioning it, because with struggles democracy was conquered in Greece, and we must not forget it, neither should we nor the new generation in particular. And the resistance to those who are reducing our democracy at the same time is resistance to those who are struggling with patriotism and faith in the country and the Greek state, but also to those who embrace authoritarianism and police rule, because these are the real risks to our democracy. At the same time, however, with historical knowledge and commitment to democratic principles, I think that a government should have at least basic knowledge and arithmetic. I have heard Mr Sedetakis, if I am not mistaken, repeat a great numerical blow by the Prime Minister. So, let us tell you again in here: When is 19 not equal to 70 and I cannot understand how the Prime Minister discovered that we won 70 billion at a summit, which, from what we see, only at a preparatory meeting took four days and, if you like, did not have the hard work that Alexis Tsipras did every time he went to the summits. In any case, however, what you need to know, ladies and gentlemen, is that subsidies have been reduced, that loans have been increased, and, unfortunately, Mr Minister, one problem we had is that the programmes of fair transition, of health to zeros and of rural development have been reduced, and we have to see how we can claim the restoration of these deficits plus, if you want, that the aim of climate neutrality has been reduced for some countries. We are not underestimating that part of the debt is being shared. It is important for the European Union. However, there is a retreat in terms of Greek interests. And, of course, what surprises us and we did not hear at all at the summit is a talk about Turkey. Here, Minister, I think you need to let us know. Has the Prime Minister claimed that there should be a summit position against the ongoing provocation and questioning of Greece's sovereign rights on the Turkish side? We have not heard anything and, fortunately, Mr McCrone has come to recall that there is also a summit in the south at the initiative of both the Greek Government and Alexis Tsipras, something that Mr Mitsotakis should have done for a long time, but also the possibility of convening the Council as a matter of urgency for the ongoing question on the part of Turkey of our rights. Foreign policy is slowing down. I think we've spotted it. We must claim far more effectively and actively our rights. I come to the rural development plan, because the President will make an observation to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u130	You got me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u131	What we see, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is that we do not have a development plan and since we do not have a development plan, we do not have a rural development plan. The only strategy we have heard from New Democracy for about a year now is the privatisation of cooperatives. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing else. Introducing the cooperatives to get their property. Until now the rest, Minister, - and it is good that you are in the Chamber too - have been short-term and personal measures, and I must say that what we have before us does not correspond to a bill. I don't know, Mr. Voridis, if you're troubled with putting some bills in good shape or you're afflicting us. However, we would honestly expect a more strategic proposal for a draft law on rural development. And I will become a little more specific: what are the characteristics of government policy towards farmers? Sadly, deception and unreliability. Let me give you an example: Mr. Voridis said that today Article 24 of Law 4643 on the installation of high productivity photovoltaics, an article that calls into question high productivity in Greece, quality agricultural products. I, too, ask something other simpler: that, Mr Voridis, you voted in early December. You said that in two months' time for this article, with which we disagreed, you will have reached a ministerial decision specifying the installed power of megawatt in each regional unit. Then you had tried to squash our reactions and mislead the farmers, saying that you should give them high productivity land to enter photovoltaics. It's been seven months, Mr. Voridis. Why did you lie to the farmers at the beginning of December 2019? Where's the ministerial decision you made? You haven't taken it off. So you are misleading farmers in Parliament and other things. Example: Unbelievable handshake in this bill. In the article on aquaculture, do you request that the environmental impact study be submitted to the competent Directorate that will have veterinarians and geoponets and will control the ICM in order to send it to the environmental service, while in the article below on the livestock establishments is submitted to GDP rather than the ICM and there is an electronic environmental register that we created in the previous government so that all the services can see electronically the ICM wherever it is submitted and control it at the same time? So if something is missing, will the IPTO or the IPPC ask the Rural Development Directorate about the missing documents rather than the beneficiary of the activity? Not to mention the great problem created by the cancellation of forest maps, because now it is no longer possible for non-forestry, after the dominated have been cancelled, to obtain a certificate of engineer on topography and to become the flock, even the farmer's residence should be done. Now we have to go again for a designation act, while you incorrectly legislated the cancellation of forest maps at the beginning of May, and you came two months later to make a ministerial decision and to extend the cancellation until September, to ask for the reasons of doubtful legality that the Council of State has decided that there are no plans to ratify forest maps, so that Greece returns decades - nothing to European regularity - and that the administration is still not answering the objections that have been dealt with. Will you consider them, where the civil servants you said respect, have done their job and have judged the objections? Why did you annul those who had no objections? Why didn't you hire a geologist to examine the many thousands of objections that you say have accumulated? Did you do so on purpose to delay more farmers and Greek development and only the friendly hit on the back by the State of New Democracy? Is the "data, dogs, alses", Mr. Voridis, on your own political agenda or Mr. Hatzidakis alone? Because what I see is that environmental permits should also be demolished with all that is present here. One thing you need to solve is the outdated ones, because in the outdated ones there is a question, since it has been rejected by the S.H.E. the provisions of Law 4280/1914. You haven't given an answer. Just cancel forest maps. When Europe comes, however, to demand back subsidies from Greece and the farmers, then we will say that Mr Vorides, Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis are co-responsible, no matter how much you say to the farmers 'it's okay, let's go back a year, nothing happened'. Also, you have some provisions for muscle crops. Mr Voridis, I have to say that although your provisions are superficial and put more documents on aquaculture than on land alone, if I'm not mistaken, I must tell you that at the moment over three hundred private mydoctors' businesses in Greece have been waiting for a month for a response from Mrs Arabatzis, who have officially seen it, for what you will do to support an export industry that still has the cultivation within the sea. I've told you several times. You've underestimated the musculoskeletal farms. You haven't announced anything. We just talked to the cooperatives again. In a short time, Mr Vorides, if you do not give any answers and possible aid, a large export sector in our country which is of the primary sector, which is private sector, will be retarded and because of you, because in the whole economic sector I have to admit, Mr Vorides, that the measures you have taken in the agricultural sector and in the economy as a whole are far behind the requirements. A country with surpluses, with low interest rates, has been handed over to New Democracy and you have already led it - to say a figure number - to six billion budgetary deficits in the state's revenues in the first semester. Unfortunately, this is Mr Mitsotakis' real arithmetic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Mr Ioannis Economou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin with today's anniversary. Usually in anniversaries we're talking about honor, memory, respect. Many times this is not enough, especially when we talk about the day when democracy is restored. So together with the self-evident honour to the national ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis, but also to all those who raised their stand against the junta, I think that today we must also talk about recognition and gratitude for the good of democracy, for freedom, for social justice, for the rule of law, for the freedom of movement, for the opportunities of people. We live in our country for the longest period of democracy. It has not always been so, and we must not forget it, and we must also think - so it is not just memory and price enough - that democracy requires constant vigilance. Even during this long period democracy may not have been threatened by tanks and jury officers, but many times it was injured or threatened by populism, from strife, from state-run parasitic capitalism, has been abused by an unlimited culture of protest, an attempt to emanate critical state variables. So we need constant vigilance, we need work, we need a result that will earn every day citizens' confidence in the state, in the functioning of politics, in the good of the orderly state. I now come, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development. All the predictions, the administrative simplifications, the speeding up of procedures, the housewives of ELGA, and the further institutional shielding of the property of our growers have been analysed by our rapporteur here and in committee. I would particularly like to dwell, Mr Minister, on Article 14, namely the article on dealing with the huge problem with feral pigs. This is a very serious problem facing people throughout Greece, but certainly also in Fthiotida. Minister, in our villages, in the villages of Domokos, in eastern Fthiotida, in Lokrida, in the villages of Macrakom and Sporade, everywhere, throughout Fthiotida for the last three years, producers have been in despair and are as I tell you. Whole crops, corn seeds, fruit and vegetables, trees, peanuts, almonds are completely destroyed by the scaffolding of wild boars. That also means economic catastrophe because, as we all know, these disasters are not compensated by the ELGA. But that's not all. In recent years there has been such an increase in populations often caused by major accidents across the provincial network of our county. I have here to testify in the Minutes from the local media in Fthiotida, twenty incidents since 2018, and after such serious accidents up to very serious ones. The size and risk of this issue, Minister, have been attempting to show them through parliamentary scrutiny by way of a question I tabled on 23 June, but also by a letter I have sent to the co-legislative ministers a few days ago, on 10 July. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. So you understand the satisfaction that I am feeling with this legislation today. But the question, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is not my satisfaction. The issue is the satisfaction and relief that producers feel in our villages, which, at last, is not related to either the Eurogroup or Covid, nor to the Greek-Turkish relations, nor to the tapes and tapes, and not to our ideological differences - comes to legislate on the Greek state and create a solution standard. What do you mean? To allow hunting throughout the year, during the hunting season, and to allow in some exceptional cases hunting, both in areas and in areas and in shelters which were not allowed until then. This is how we have two weapons in our hands to deal with an essential issue that was destroying people, who desperately saw no one dealing with their problem. This is a very positive step, which I must welcome and congratulate the Ministry's leadership. Mr President, when we talk about the primary sector, the debate goes on to the country's productive model. This model is highly distorted. Only two elements will I tell you which relate to the primary sector, the primary production. Greece, which does not have a single car plant, paid to Italy, France, Germany and Spain EUR 3.5 billion for the importation of cars in 2015-2019. From the same countries at the same time Greece paid EUR 4.5 billion for importing food of animal origin. Secondly, for the import of meat and eggs, our country in 2015-2019 paid EUR 5.5 billion. At the same time, the total direct payments to producers were about twice as much, i.e. EUR 10 billion. If we were to take account of the money we used to import dairy, you can see that it was much less the money that we received as direct aid than we spent on import. It is therefore clear that this situation must be reversed and a comprehensive support and modernisation plan for the primary sector is needed, and it is immediately. The success of the country and Prime Minister, Mr Famele, will ensure these funds for the next period will ensure the conditions for changing direction, so that we can achieve things quickly. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of choice, Minister, with what hierarchy and with what gravity the Greek agricultural, livestock and fisheries production will be involved in changing our development model and our productive model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u134	Thank you to Mr. Economou and to the economy of time. I want to take advantage of the space until the Step is ready and before Mr. Stamenitis gets up, read the names of the next quadrant. Mr Vlachos, Mr Apostolos, Mr Charakopoulos and Mr Kotsos will be followed. Mr Stamenitis Dionysius has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place today on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food entitled 'Simplification of the framework for the exercise of economic activities, the responsibility of the Ministry', which is another legislative initiative of the Ministry, which is to be added to the overall effort that has been systematically carried out to solve problems, tackle chronic diseases and overcome obstacles to matters relating to the primary sector as a whole. But you will allow me to make a comment on the criticisms that have been made all along by the opposition, which is briefly summarized in the absence of strategic planning for the development of the primary sector and the absence of the large areas. I am sorry, but either - forgive me for the phrase - you are naive, or you have nothing else to say and you are simply opposition to the opposition. Obviously, we would all like to solve everything with a bill and solve all the problems of the primary sector, but of course you only do that, or rather you only say it, that you do away with the memos and you solve the problems of the country with a law and an article. But you are committing the country with new unnecessarily new memos, charging the citizens EUR 14 billion tax and, of course, committing public property for ninety years. You obviously do not read well that Mr Mitsotakis coming from Europe has brought at least EUR 70 billion over the next six years. Read them well. But to be a little serious, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, the primary sector needs work and every bill that we have solved problems, such as the law on upgrading and modernising the agricultural sector, with which the phenomenon of Greekization has been addressed. And as Minister Vorides said in committee, we have a positive impact on the price of milk. The register was set up, entered a class in the legislation in force and the production process of the agricultural sector was liberalised by malfunctions and administrative claws. Also, the bill for cooperatives - which changed the institutional framework - solved problems, regulated issues that were for years a whole set of brakes on the proper functioning of cooperatives. With the initiatives to set up inter-branch organisations, which I have read somewhere that there are no farmers, but we in Pella only see inter-professional farmers. With today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, it is attempting to modernise the framework and regulate issues that were happening, but also to clarify and fill gaps in existing legislation on the establishment and operation of intensive or semi-intensive aquaculture units, veterinary, veterinary and veterinary clinics, pet and livestock farming. In the context of his position in today's debate, I would like to focus on three important - in my opinion - provisions of this draft law. Firstly, in the proposed regulation of implied approval, we have a truly intrinsic arrangement and essentially an effective weapon against oligopoly, or if you want many times in the inability of the public administration to respond to citizens in good time. The silent consensus in case within 50 days the administration fails to respond to the applicant, actually takes the citizens out of an impasse of administrative and decision-making procedures. The obligation of the services to respond is laid down and if this does not happen then the legislator takes care of the benefit of the citizen. Secondly, I would like to stand by a county with very important livestock activity, and I should like to stress that the simplification of procedures for livestock units is in the very right direction and we are rather late in this, as the introduction of these regulations makes it easier to carry out livestock farming, creates a more friendly entrepreneurial environment and strengthens livestock entrepreneurship with multiple benefits, important to local communities and economies. I come to the third and last point, which I think is extremely critical, and that is the restoration of a distortion, which is achieved by the proposed regulation of Article 9. This is the reintroduction of the maximum level of compensation from the ELGA to the insured persons. By application of the provision in Article 20(1) of the SYRIZA Government’s Article 20 of Law No.4351/2015, the insured person could be compensated without a ceiling if he had opted for the maximum insurance contribution of EUR 10000, thereby abolishing the arrangements of Articles 8 and 11 of the 2010 Law limiting maximum amounts. In 2006 with the CRL it was established that the amount of compensation per beneficiary may not exceed EUR 250,000 per annum. In other words, these two regulations, as proved in practice, have costly burdened ELGA. I think, Minister, I also told the committee that it is right to legislate and bring the compensation limit back to EUR 70,000 when we are in fact in an attempt to resolve the Agency's financial problems so that there is money at the moment when producers must also be paid on time. We, the Government of New Democracy, are the ones that are now guaranteed and in the past, when we were government, the fair special compensation for the insured and the right time. And now, after the efforts of Minister Voridis and the decision of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, you were given the state budget of EUR 35 million, which accounts for 20% of the ELGA budget, the first time since 2011, in order to return payments for farmers to normality, as it was until 2015, when you SYRIZA gentlemen converted it into the well-known '70-20-10', that is 70% of the compensation principle of the year, 20% in November and 10% in December. This change shows a difference. Great words, big ones, but they need actions and solutions to problems. We have been solving problems for a year. We solved that, too. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law is a practical proof that the government and the ministry have the organised and effective development of the primary sector and its conversion into a powerful weapon for the reconstruction of the country's development model. There is a plan to support the incomes of producers, who believe - they recognise it - that one - their problems are solved. They also know better than ourselves that the issues that trouble the industry need systematic work and see the great effort that is being made in the past year. Part of this attempt is today's bill we are called upon to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u136	Mr Vlachos Georgios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing this bill on a difficult day for Orthodoxy, but also for the entire civilised world. We are, of course, holding the optimistic message of the day, since today, as forty-six years ago, Constantine Karamanlis swore the first political government after the parenthesis of the dictatorship. As his political opponent then confessed, Constantine Karamanlis swore alone an hour and a half to tame chaos. In the years that followed, the decades that followed to come to this day obviously justified this struggle and this effort. And we are talking today about democracy in the country, which is no longer at risk from anyone, fully armored, the sovereign of the Greek people and the political world of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard in committee many times about the strategy of the Ministry, the Minister and the Government on the rural economy. The insistence, if you like, of the Anti-Population and, above all, of the Officerial Response, for the absence of a strategy really falls into the void. And it is clear that this government has given due importance to the rural economy and the rural world since the beginning and, of course, in every measure and in every way, is trying to support this effort over time. We accept that all the governments that have passed so far had a strategy and that they have all made an effort to help. Of course, this effort cannot stop in the announcement that we have a strategy. It must also be accompanied by other decisions, with other measures which come to support it. For example, we attach great importance to the utilization of all the instruments provided by the European Union. We took a huge sum yesterday, and some of you consider it self-evident and escapes you that the European Union was once again accounted for more than at the outset. It wasn't a given thing. You know that the budgets have been reduced and we have kept the same amounts in many areas, as in the common agricultural policy. That was not self-evident before the negotiations began. Today to criticise safely is easy, but it was nothing given. The first is to support farmers with programmes and funding to modernise Greek agriculture and, in general, the rural economy, to put other sectors in place. The second is a flexible and effective intervention by state bodies to facilitate farmers, so that they can find solutions to their problems. I have heard the rapporteur from the Officerial Opposition say "But will simplification in itself be of interest to a farmer to deal with?" No, it won't move the interest. But the simplification of procedures - at last, let us admit it - will give a solution to prevent him from being disappointed, from giving up and getting up, because most of the time this is happening. The third pillar for us is the financial support of the insurance and compensation body for agricultural production, which we will discuss on Tuesday at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade with the presence of the Minister and the President of ELGA. These are, therefore, the main points, in my opinion, and we need to see what we are doing here. We have therefore called on the European Union to do everything that is useful, everything that serves this effort, to bring legislation, such as this law, to improve the working conditions and image of the state machine, to eliminate red tape, if possible, and to enable everyone who wants to invest and operate, to move forward. The bill that we are discussing for some, as has been said, may deal with'small and fragmented', but these are the small ones that identify at the end of the day the effort we are all doing. These are the small ones that scatter frustration on all concerned. These are the small ones that are asking us to resolve and many times the question of our fellow citizens is: "But, well, this so visible you can't find it, you can't give it a solution?" Well, that's coming to do that bill. It gives solutions to individual issues. I'm not going to analyze them one, I don't have the time, but I don't need it either. I think our rapporteur, Mr Sedetakis, has been detailed on the individual objectives of this bill. We must keep the great picture of this effort, which is to improve the conditions of rural activity. The policy, of course, has been presented by the Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And together with the whole political leadership, we are making an objective approach here and expressing opinions, if you wish, objectively, to see how we can help farmers, how we can improve their lives and how we can give the Greek consumer - because this is the purpose at the end - the diversity and the quality of products and how we will convince him that these are much better to choose from everything imported. In this effort, of course, opposition has held a ambiguity. On the one hand, 'we had discussed them, we had prepared them, we did not bring them, we would bring them', on the other, 'the things you bring are small, you have no strategy'. Let's make it clear 'cause that's what we have to finish. Strategic design exists unless you mean state planning for agriculture. There's no state where it collapsed. Here, in order to be informed, the farmer is free to set his objectives and plan his life, and the state is responsible for setting him the framework within which he will move, without obstacles, without problems, so that he can actually have results. At the end of this debate, let us agree that this bill gives solutions to many problems - I say them that because you have said them small - but which are very important for rural activity to go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u138	Finish it, Mr. Vlavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u139	That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not just vote for the bill, we support it politically because, as I said, it gives solutions to these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u140	Next speaker, Mr Apostle Evangelos, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u141	Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you continue your rhetoric, although reduced, for the major successes at the recent summit, and indeed, you connect them to the rural area, I will repeat this. Mr Mitsotakis, but also you, Minister, referred to 70 billion, while the sums secured were 32 billion from the total amount of 750 billion in the Recovery Fund, money planned to deal with the impact of the coronary pandemic. For the CFP, the budget agreed is fixed at 2018 prices, at 436 billion, while you presented it as stable compared to the previous period, i.e. 383 billion. So everything shows that it will be reduced by 46.5 billion, about 12%, i.e. there will be a reduction greater than the one-year direct payments. And because the forthcoming reform of the CAP may bring further reductions, because of its connection, for example, with the climate, the Green Agreement, and but I expect, Minister, a response from you to two questions. The first is - and you are constantly repeating this - that it is not right that we are talking about the strategic plan which is linked to the new CAP, the CAP of the next period. We are talking about this, Minister, because it has also been entrusted to a particular group of the Agricultural University. Where is he finally? What data and conditions is difficult to deliver? And the second is the EUR 500 million that the Baltic countries will receive as a gift, which is not clearly stated how they will ensure that they reduce Greece's direct aid to fill this amount? We're asking. But what seems to be that, unfortunately, neither for the European Union nor for you, the rural area is currently on priority. And I come to the bill. It is obvious, Minister, that now your tactics to table in the House haste and rough bills, sometimes copying laws and sometimes compiling scorpions that you could have been able to make with simple amendments or even ministerial decisions to approach them. A lot has been said about the provisions of the bill, I will not insist. I shall, however, look particularly at the representation of farmers, which is a fundamental issue for the area today. In August 2018, we submitted to the General Secretariat of the Parliament a draft law, i.e. all the procedures to be submitted for discussion, for Agricultural Professional Associations. Unfortunately, it was not possible to become a state law. On the other hand, many of the amendments contained in this bill have gradually been used - and in particular, many of you - which were certainly useful to the operational needs of the agricultural sector, but not able to draw up a new rural strategy, because it has not been used as a basic target that professional farmers have but had a representative representation in order to actively participate in the development of a new agricultural policy, which must, in particular, be a priority. The almost non-existent rural clubs with an obsolete institutional framework of decades are impossible to represent practically all the sectors of the rural economy? The existing representation of cooperative enterprises does not have the necessary greater legitimacy to express all farmers but only part of those forty thousand cooperative farmers and the specific problems of cooperatives. Interprofessional organizations as the foundation of a European acquis by their very nature have a specific orientation for interprofessional cooperation on the promotion of the product. Inevitably, therefore, a new universal institution had to be sought to unite and represent all farmers in all sectors. Only in this way can a strategic plan of mutual acceptance and effective efficiency be developed and implemented for the benefit of farmers, but also of the national economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. The position of professional associations could also be the reintroduction of the institution of the rural chambers. It is important that there should be representation of farmers with wider and democratic legitimacy. On the contrary, the provisions you have brought to date to the representation of farmers - you have seen it too - are not capable of changing the flow of things, but I would say more to you that they also create conditions for the proper representation of the area. So until this is done, Minister, use at least the legal basis that you have received on two issues. The first is to deal with bad practices in the marketing of agricultural products by fully implementing the payment of agricultural products in two months. The second is the proper use of the regulation for the country of origin of milk, meat and their products, not only by labelling, but above all by informing the consumer properly. I mentioned the word 'righteous' because in a short time, as you know, we will be invited by the European Commission to provide information, and that is why we absolutely must ensure that we continue after the end of the three-year period.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. The Minister for Rural Development and Food has asked for the floor to table some legislative improvements. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need 30 seconds. We're putting forward legislative improvements. They are purely legal, I do not need to expand, they are very specific, they will be seen by colleagues. Mr President, two parliamentary amendments have been tabled, one on the part of Mera25, one on the part of Ms Bakadama and Mr Arsenis, which we are not accepting, and one on the Change Movement, signed by Mr Panas, Mrs Giannakopoulou, Mr Arvanitides and Mr Scandalidis, are essentially concerned with the position that they have put forward in the Committee on Reintroduction of Article 8, because of the reasons I have explained - and I may say in my speech - we are not accepting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is taking place on a day that has a special symbolism. The anniversary of the restoration of democracy requires reflection to examine what we have achieved in these forty years of normal political life. Undoubtedly Greece has at this time recorded huge progress. Our democracy has proved solid. Civil liberties and human rights are fully respected and the country continues to be a member of the most ambitious experiment of coexistence between the states of the European Union. The top choice of the national ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis is constantly confirmed. Europe may not always have the fast reflexes that we would all like, but its reactions are in the right direction. The gigantic package that will be invading the Greek economy over the next seventy billion euros, witnessing the truth. This is a great success of the country that everyone must recognise, regardless of whether it is credited primarily to the Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, who has managed to reverse the country's image in the international environment. Of course, we would be blinded if we did not recognize the diseases of post-multiple disease that we have to overcome. I know the need to restore the authority of the institutions on the basis of recent revelations of intervention in the field of justice. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not forget, of course, that our democracy has unfortunately been restored since the Cypriot tragedy and the invasion of the Turkish army into the martyr Megagon that has been exploited our own weaknesses. Of course, today everything is different. Cyprus is now a member of the European Union, not of the non-binding ones, and Hellenism is united and determined. Greece, however, has to face Turkish aggression, which has long gone far beyond any limit. Ankara's challenges are daily and at every level, even in that of symbols. The desecration of Agia Sophia and its transformation from today to a mosque are abusive to global civilisation and it is a pity that the world community has chosen to underestimate the fact and to undermine its reaction. Turks are clearly now chosen to be pirates of the Aegean. Ankara is a day-to-day intolerance, which is more anti-European and more dangerous. These hours, therefore, a national unit and an inner stiff front is needed. However, because the most certain method of bringing together an uncontrolled opponent is the force of deterrent, we must increase our defence spending, reinstate our defence industry, neglected for decades. It is something I have also pointed out in the debate on the budget. It is not possible in conditions of a threat to war by the neighbour that defence spending is not increased. Coming now to the bill, as I have said in the Committee on Production and Trade, the bill may be deprived of principle, but it is trying to settle loose ends and settle various bureaucratic issues. It extends for two and a half years the possibility of settling arbitrary stacks, giving another chance to those who had not done so, on the basis of the favourable institutional framework we have established, to do so now. I wish, Minister, that it is the last and that we do not have to perpetuate these extensions, which in the end impart the image of the state. Because I believe that every crisis should make us wiser, on the basis of the regulation of uses on high productivity land, I would also like from this Step forward to put forward its objections to the development of high productivity photovoltaics established by the previous government and, unfortunately, continues today. The pandemic highlighted the risk of food adequacy. Our country is one of the most food-dependent imports. It does not therefore have the luxury of sacrificing high productivity land for RES, for renewable energy sources. Let them be in barren fields. And finally as a country we've forgotten that the greenest, environmentally friendly, energy is hydroelectric? Mr President, I hope that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the convening of which I have asked for the water problem of Thessaly, we can also talk about the production of hydroelectric power from Acheloos's waters, a project which has been planted because of the well-known ideas. It is a good thing that the regulation on the extension of wild boar hunting throughout the year is positive, because evil has been done. The launching of their population in recent years has caused huge problems, with damage to crops that are not compensated, while they are zoonoses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The regulation, Minister, for seasonal workers also highlights the distortions of our productive model. It is good to extend by a six-month period when foreign workers can work, as we have increased needs due to the harvest of products by autumn. However, it will require a legislative improvement so that those who had been transferred under the act of legislation and returned to their home country can enter the country by the end of the year. See also the wording of Article 13 for the transfer of real estate. If the wording that you bring in 2015 did not apply, it would not have been possible for the Ministry to withdraw the concession of the real estate - "fillet" to Thermi Thessaloniki, which was given in 1984 to PASPEGES, due of course to its scandalous management. Before I come down from Stepma, Minister - and I thank you, Mr President, for the understanding - I have to put once again the blatant injustice suffered by the beneficiaries of the land afforestation programme throughout the country, who are called upon to return all the subsidies received, because the state does not treat them equally. And it does not treat them equally, because while it recognised that it is not possible to cultivate two hundred fifty trees the acre and reduced them to seventy, it calls for the aid to be repaid by those who were checked on the basis of the original CRL rather than the correction that he recognised as an error. This is the third time I've put it from this Step. I hope I do not have to do this again, and soon the appropriate solution will be given to a problem involving family and householders who have suddenly been exposed, unable to return thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u146	Finish it, Mr. Harakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u147	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we all look forward with interest to the final proposals from the Pissaridis Committee on the contribution of the primary sector to the country's productive reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u149	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u150	Wait a minute, Mr. President. The photovoltaics issue has been reintroduced many times. Of course, the Minister said that today's bill does not introduce a new regulation, it simply repeats for reasons of proper legislation the arrangement where we amend the piece that refers to abandoned installations in high-quality land, so that they can be used for processing agricultural products and other such activities relating to the primary sector. And because the previous very good colleague from Larissa mentioned when the possibility of using high productivity land for photovoltaic installation was first introduced, I would like to say that this was not done by the previous government to be perfectly fair and accurate. This has been the case with Law 2637, since 1998, with Article 56 which has been given the possibility of producing high productivity photovoltaic power plants. What's that supposed to be? Of course, it serves primarily to improve the competitiveness and sustainability of Greek farmers. I will give you an example of what is happening in this Chamber and finally see, in a more correct direction perhaps, what we are trying to do. Today, in Germany agricultural photovoltaics account for 17% of the total energy produced by photovoltaic power stations, whether they belong to farmers or to non-farmers. In Greece, this figure is only 7%, that is, in Germany, many more farmers have the possibility and have already built on high-quality land, next to the stable facilities, next to their fields, photovoltaic stations and produce 17% of the total energy produced by RES in Germany. In Greece it's only 7%. So there is a great opportunity and a great opportunity to support farmers first of all, enabling them to build an RES station, a renewable energy source, next to their installation and not to be able to build or look for other sites to buy areas that do not have the economic potential, so that they can have a supplementary income and be competitive. The first is that. The second concerns the use of RES in the primary sector is an environmental measure. It helps to reduce the carbon footprint on the production of Greek, very high-quality agricultural products. We should not forget that. Anyway, there is a law regulation, as amended a few months ago by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, and the joint ministerial decision, which is now on the way - and in the next few days, I believe, I believe, will be completed - specifying the conditions under which a person can build photovoltaic in a high-quality agricultural land. What do we do? We are protecting the agricultural land of high productivity, because we have put a coefficient, a'standard' of up to 1%. It must be said that there were also the so-called derogations on either side of the national networks and provincial networks of 200 metres. It could have been anyone who either was a high productivity land or not go out of town to get a small intervention license and build a photovoltaic station. We stop this derogation and the circumvention we had to protect the land of high productivity, because we put a 1% "standard" for photovoltaics that can be built in PVO, including derogations. That's how we protect. We are talking about 1% of the ceiling, nothing less, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Harakopoulos, please. You don't have the floor. We will give the floor to the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u153	Just for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u154	Why do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u155	Because there's a distortion, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u156	What exactly distorted? Is your intervention on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u157	On staff, he made the honor of answering the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u158	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u159	Staff is the distortion of my place. I said, therefore, about photovoltaics, which are developed in high productivity land, the view that I expressed in more detail in the Committee on Production and Trade, saying that the 1% ceiling is not about high productivity land, but about the whole of rural land. We said I'm indestructible should be treated with this. If it's corrected, I'm glad to hear it. I would, of course, expect the Undersecretary to argue about the diversion of Acheloos, about the mild diversion that will create at least two hydroelectric power plants that are the most environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u160	Now you're going to start a new circle of interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u161	I would also expect her to know that many people now face Thessaly as a new 'ELDORANTO' for renewable energy sources and try to make rents for 25 years of contracts, giving too great rents, Mr President. All this constitutes a risk - and I described it - based on the nationalism of the foods that we experienced during the health crisis, with the bans on exports of agricultural products from countries and even members of the European Union. I have also described that our country, unfortunately, is a country which is a tragic food shortage and we need to take a serious look at its productive reconstruction. And I ended up by saying that I hope the Pissaridis finding has specific proposals in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u163	Here you go, Minister, but please be brief. Already, the speaker is waiting in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u164	Because he asked for an explanation. If you want, I'm not answering. It's not mandatory. We can tell in the hallway. Of course, I do not need to explain and mention anything about the partial transport of the Acheloos flood water, because the Prime Minister himself has said so. Of course we support it. And we are among those who are the first to build, and in this way to solve the water deficit of Thessaly, where more than half a million acres are at risk of being devastated. On the other hand, I should like to say to you - because it is correct to observe - what this 1% of agricultural land means. In the law and decision a rate had to be set which was stable. We had to count one percent. At the moment, we do not have a pan-Hellenic map designated by the GSP, the agricultural land of high productivity. What do we got? We have the element from the Hellenic Statistical Office, which, of course, is also promoted and communicates to the European Statistical Office, where it says what the agricultural land is currently used, with the exception of pastures. Differences are small, they are not large, but we have a constant on which we can objectively calculate this 1% with what land, how many acres, with which acres should be multiplied, so that it can finally come out how many of them can be used to install photovoltaics. For the other thing, there are rents and the rental prices have increased very much in high productivity rural land, I would say that from one point to the next, once a ceiling of 1% has been set, it is good for farmers if they can actually have an extra income and, indeed, much higher than perhaps the commercial value so far, by renting their farms. Of course, we don't intend to do that. And if what you're saying involves circumvention of the law, we'll see. Why do we want to succeed? We want to give - I repeat - the possibility for the Greek farmer, as the German farmer and other farmers in Europe have, to finally be able to build a photovoltaic, to have a supplementary income and to be more competitive and sustainable. That is why we voted for 25-75, which you know very well. I think we all agree that we should use the RES at the farmers' service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Kotsos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, 24 July today and is expected to develop on a signatory day, the 24th of July for Hellenism. On 24 July 1974 democracy was restored in our country and all of us were able to experience the longest peaceful democratic period of prosperity. 24 July today and Agia Sofia is turned into a mosque, insulting the Christians, the Greeks, the western civilization. An incomprehensible, unacceptable decision of the Erdogan regime, which we must demonstrate internationally and condemn internationally, because there is a slight delay in this whole matter by the international community. On 24 July 1923 the Treaty of Lausanne, which laid down the limits of the modern Turkish state and, of course, leaves no doubt as to what the territorial integrity and territorial territory of our country is. I really do not understand whether and whether Kastelorizo is close to mainland Greece or close to Turkey. Kastelorizo is a Greek area, it is a Greek territory. If, in that sense, there was a dispute over Alaska, let us say, which is a state of the United States of America, but is not a border with America, it is bordering Canada, it is close to Russia and if they entered this process to question its territorial integrity and whether or not it is a state of the United States. So there is no reason for us to enter the debate on whether Kastelorizo is close or far away. It is a Greek area and must not be questioned by anyone. We are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, about a bill dealing with a structural pillar in our country, the primary sector, which contributes primarily to 4% of GDP, and if we count on processing, it reaches 8% of GDP and which - I want to believe - through targeted and well-intentioned political initiatives this figure will be even higher. I say this because it is an undeniable need, and it emerged from the pandemic, to change our economic mix. You see that another critical and structural pillar of our economy, tourism, due to an incident involving the pandemic, collapses and closest to it, goes to collapse a large part of our economy. It is therefore necessary to shield our economy through the development of other activities. Here too, the primary and agro-food sector, which can help even further if our products are processed, standardised and exploited to the fullest extent possible in our country and do not export them to a primary and primary level abroad, so that we can then import them processed and standardised at a much higher cost, losing exchange rates, losing jobs and, above all, losing the multiplier benefit we should have from exploiting primary production. The aim of the bill is compatible with the priority that we give to speeding up the procedures and removing the bureaucracy of our state and public body. In fact, this is where the bill comes in this direction to work positively in simplifying procedures for agri-food and fish-growing activities. I am saying this because our farmers, our farmers, as a conservative professional group, have a great abhorrence to bureaucracy and because all these bureaucratic issues which, until now, have been in place, have been very negative in the further development of our agri-food sector. Of course, there are also the offences of the stealing and killing which are laid down through the bill, in response to another dynamic pillar of development in our country, which is fish farming. It is also self-evident to support scientific bodies such as ELGO - "DIMITRA", which really contributes significantly to the education and information of farmers, and to interconnect them, through the local administration of the body that is close to the citizen, close to the farmer and which requires the central administration of the state to activate it as much as possible, trying to diffuse policies in the region. For ELGA, what I have to say is that our farmers really expect timely and fair compensation when they are damaged. And here it comes to add EUR 35 million to the farmers' insurance body, so that it is able to cope with this process with dignity. I would like to point out this, however, in order to come and speak with the debate that both honourable Members had before in Thessaly. Agricultural production without water can't be done. And when Thessaly Campos has three billion cubic meters of water deficit, you understand that the problem is important. Here, the answer can only be given to partial transport of water from the upper edge of Acheloos to Thessaly. The greatest cost in agricultural production I want you to know, ladies and gentlemen, is the irrigation cost. Therefore, Minister, I consider it a challenge for us to make use of the 70 billion available for the next period, a large part of this money, to go to the closed irrigation networks, which will give an answer to the enormous irrigation costs of our fellow farmers. A last word on the 'LEADER' programme, which was heard before a leader of the opposition. The Leader programme is indeed a flexible integrated rural development programme, which means that it has interventions and actions throughout life in the countryside. In fact, it is a programme that follows the Bottom-up process, its upward process, its formation, which means that local action groups implement and form the programme according to the specificities, needs and priorities of a region. I would like to assure you that the miracle of the Plastira Lake is precisely a child of the integrated rural development programmes, of the Leader and of the OPECA, which has triggered the development of rural accommodation. Ladies and gentlemen, our government has shown us a great deal of readiness in its legislative work, but at the same time it has demonstrated its ability to disarm the pulse of society. In particular, in the agricultural sector, we are legislating to make use of all the productive factors of the rural economy, because the competitive primary sector is at the forefront of the development plan that our Government has for the future of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u167	The next speaker is Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, forty-six years have been completed since the restoration of the democratic constitution in our country. The New Democracy is the party that has embedded democracy itself. It has envisioned and achieved the accession of our country, Greece, to the great European family. All of us here today in this Chamber must not forget that the quality of democracy depends on the credibility of the institutions in the eyes of the citizens. Democracy is more powerful today than ever! But today is another anniversary. It is the anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne, in 1923, which thanks to the national ruler, Eleftherios Venizelos, rescued many of the achievements of the previous period. It is the Treaty of Lausanne which at the same time defined the basis of modern Turkey. On such a day, therefore, Mr Erdogan has chosen to turn Agia Sophia into a mosque, which is a challenge and abusive to the entire civilized world, since we are talking about a monument characterised by UNESCO as a global heritage. At the same time, however, it also shows Turkey's change of direction. For Agia Sophia, I won't say anything more. After all, the Prime Minister said it: "The story teaches that monuments are not humiliated, but they humiliate those who do not respect them. Even those who desecrate this monument are forced to call it by his Byzantine name Agia Sophia." Whatever the challenges and intentions are, we are here, we are all here, guardians of the integrity and freedom of the country, to the edge. And now I come to the bill. This bill is extremely important for all the economic activities in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. We facilitate investment. We are strengthening rural entrepreneurship and the proper functioning of the market. We are doing so with a stable, transparent, single and integrated licensing system, by revising the framework for the exercise and operation of all the activities involved, by clarifying the supporting documents, by providing for deadlines within which the administration has to adopt approval decisions, with a reduction in administrative acts. We introduce the new platform, Notify Business, where investors of manufacturing companies and environmental infrastructure systems will be able to submit all supporting documents for the start-up and operation of their business. We reap the ELGA in the interest of producers, so that their compensation can be paid immediately in the event of disasters. We modernise the ELGO - "DIMITRA", enabling him to make cooperation with the OTAs, for the better education of farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, sustainable aquaculture activities are key pillars of the National Strategic Plans and their development is a common priority and objective in all Member States of the European Union. In our country, aquaculture is one of the first export sectors. It is worth supporting and developing even more. The coronary pandemic has not only highlighted the need for the state to be prepared for the protection of public health, but also the need to shield the national economy from exceptional circumstances. The purpose of such conditions is to prepare the state to ensure the survival and well-being of citizens. The country's economic policy needs to be adapted to ensure self-sufficiency. In times of major crisis, it is self-sufficiency that will ensure the well-being of the Greek people. The primary and secondary sectors must therefore be developed. Apart from tourism, services and trade, which are first affected, as we have seen, in times of crisis, our country has all the guarantees and conditions to produce products, such as cereals, fruits, vegetables, legumes, meat, dairy products, even the precious ethyl alcohol in our day. Besides, Greece is a country with a large agricultural and livestock tradition. We must therefore invest in the country's plant and animal capital. At the same time, we must invest in research and innovation for the development of Greek entrepreneurship. The jumps made today in the state's digital transformation enable digital tools to be exploited, so that even small producers can highlight and promote their products, not only within, but outside, borders. The production of agricultural and livestock products is the basis of a healthy economy. She's the one who'll keep us alive and self-sufficient in the hardest times of history. The creation of viable industrial plants for the processing and processing of our products, the regeneration and the rebuilding of the Greek industry, is the basis for a stable and long-term economic prosperity. First, then, the primary, then secondary and finally tertiary production. With this priority and order, we will build a strong and stable national economy, an economy that will last over time, regardless of international circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons I urge you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u169	The next speaker is Mr Christos Kelles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our country. And it is historic because, while we are currently discussing the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development, in our region in international policy, two systems of values are opposed: democracy and light on the one hand, totalitarianism and darkness on the other. Today we honour the anniversary of the restoration of democracy in its valley, unlike Erdogan's Turkey that celebrates because it turned Agia Sophia, a monument of global radiation and heritage and a symbol of Christianity into a mosque. While Turkey diverges from western values and at the same time escalates tension by attempting to control a large part of the Eastern Mediterranean, Greece remains faithful to its historic duty, recommending the predator of Europe's security and freedom. These hours, ladies and gentlemen, we must be united as never before, since our thoughts are less within this Chamber and more to the officials of the Armed Forces and the security forces who guard the borders of Greece and Europe in the Aegean and Evros. And because, with the restoration of democracy, Constantine Karamanlis has led the country into a united Europe, it is of particular value that this year's anniversary finds us sufficiently strong within the European Union, with President Macronne and President Macronne acting as analogous to Turkish provocation, while our Prime Minister returned a few days ago from the four-day summit, having guaranteed EUR 72 billion for the strong and sustainable development of our country. The success of safeguarding European funds certainly includes stable resources for the CAP. This is a pre-election commitment that has been made and will contribute to the support of our rural economy, which is a pillar of our regional development policies. In this context, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food introduces by this draft law a harmonized set of provisions that encourage rural entrepreneurship and, at the same time, solve problems in the rural and livestock world. In particular, bureaucratic obstacles are removed in relation to entrepreneurship and investment is accelerated. Procedures for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments, veterinarians, veterinary clinics, pets and aquaculture units shall be simplified and administrative burdens reduced. The establishment of the necessary supporting documents shall be made clear and this 50-day period shall be established from the application for livestock establishments, farms of animals, veterinarians and veterinary clinics within which the authorities are to decide on the requests. In the event of its departure, of course, approval for the establishment shall be deemed to have been implied. For aquaculture, as appropriate, after completion of the application procedure provided for, authorisation shall be granted for establishment of a plant within 30 days and, where the time limit expires, the application shall be accepted. In addition, those setting up specific facilities and units will be more effectively protected since the provisions on crimes against theft, life-threatening, stealing and killing are introduced in the legal order. Analogous regulation, to support investments in the primary sector, is it also in relation to the concession of the use of real estate ownership by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for investments under the development laws. In particular, the process of granting public real estate for strategic investments is being simplified, the attempt to create a friendly environment for investment is being strengthened, and, furthermore, the possibility is being given for the use of property less than a hundred acres, in accordance with the planned reservations of the law. Furthermore, as we have pointed out in committee, it is important that the potential of the ELGO - 'DIMITRA' is exploited and that it is possible to conclude contracts with OTAs, which are estimated to contribute to rural development. It should be noted here that the administration of the agency produces considerable work. Just a few days ago, he organized an information event in Ellassona for producers on the upgrading of the “ARTEMIS” system, aimed at more efficient movement of milk and meat to ensure competitive prices for their products. As far as ELGA is concerned, on the basis of this provision, I would like to stress that for the first time the government has EUR 35,000 000 from the state budget in order to compensate the beneficiaries. The Prime Minister once again practically demonstrates the priority he attaches to the rural world. They deserve warm congratulations to our Government, but also to you, Minister, who support the Greek region. Another issue which is very important is the control of the population of feral pigs for reasons of public interest. The rural world declares it pleased, since the rapid growth of wild boars has caused too many and great damage to production and many have seen their crops being destroyed in full. Therefore, with the possibility of hunting wild boars throughout the hunting season - a subject we have raised on several occasions and with timely questions - this problem will be resolved by a large percentage. Moreover - an important element of culture I would say - the provision for the protection of horses is introduced, as is the case respectively for dogs and cats. In other words, a provision stipulates that the rearing, use and export of dogs, cats and equidae for the production of fur, skin, meat or the manufacture of medicinal products is prohibited. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. The bill also supports farmers on harvest. It is very right, Minister, to extend it from 1-5-2020 MDG to 31-12-2020. I hope that you will give a solution to both those who are already in Greece or those who have come and returned to their homeland so that they can come back to Greece. Also, after your responses to the bluetongue yesterday that the CRL has been signed, they will be paid within the days and we expect the approval of the European Commission, as you said in committee, for the payment of the damages due to the pandemic. Furthermore, Minister, on the basis of the provisions on cooperatives, I would once again ask the House to give the legislative power to inactive agricultural cooperatives, which are not registered in the special register of agricultural cooperatives, either to be entered in the register of agricultural cooperatives or to be merged with active agricultural cooperatives so that their assets can be transferred. Measure 8.1 land afforestation: we have repeatedly said that it is maximum injustice, two meters and two weights: Those who were examined after the 2015 KHS or were not examined, continue to receive the grants, those who were controlled before the KHS, have been punished and demanded and the reimbursement of the funds collected. We expect to see where this is going, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u171	Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a harmonised and coherent set of provisions, which helps to strengthen rural development and solve important problems affecting the rural and livestock world, so we will be voting in favour of it. And we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this evening at 20.00 all Orthodox Christians around the world, Greek women, Greeks, with one voice we sing "The Supermacho General" headed by Archbishop Hieronym. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u173	Mr Simos Kedicoglou has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. In what they have heard about today, I should just add that it is a day of debt, a debt of honour to our history, to our democracy. We have a duty to be worthy. We must now come to this bill, which is another important step by the Ministry of Rural Development in the whole of the national effort to regain our economy, giving impetus to a very decisive sector. Our rapporteur, like the other speakers in my group, has sufficiently developed the individual provisions of the bill, so you will allow me to go one step further, to add a visionary - if you like - element. Let us not forget that the strengthening of productivity, the systematic increase in exports, the closer interconnection of production with technology and innovation, with a view to creating new, better jobs, are the main pillars of the development plan presented by the Pissaridis Committee. And it should be stressed that the most suitable scope for their implementation is the rural economy, developing it through modern methods and following successful international examples. It is clear that one of the most important lessons of the economic consequences of the health crisis is the need to restructure the national economy. Excessive support to a pillar, the tourist, has proved to make it extremely vulnerable in conditions of global crisis. Our request must be to develop other sectors, where we have significant comparative advantages, with a more specific example of the agri-food sector. Our aim must be to highlight the farmer - a businessman, a small and medium-sized, as an economic and also a social model. It is a question of providing the young farmer with agricultural support and financial information so that he can then make the right business decisions in a way that can also be financed. In other words, if the farmer is near the farmer, informing him of the potential for cultivation and then the economic consultant to inform him of the prospects for each product in the current market situation. In this context, it is very interesting, Minister, and it requires further study and development, the proposal of the Chamber of Economics of Greece for the development of the primary sector. There it is noted that the most important is not agricultural production as such, but the turnover of the products produced, processed and exported. For example, New Zealand has agricultural production worth 7,000,000 euros and exports products worth 23,000,000 euros, while Greece produces 12,000,000 euros and exports only 5,000,000 euros. The future lies in the production of technology-intensive products and not just basic primary production. The Netherlands produces products worth EUR 1,700 per acre, Israel EUR 1,190 and Greece EUR 190 per acre. Following their example, we could spread our exports and increase the Gross National Product by 25,000,000 euros. The key to the proposal from the Chamber of Economics is the creation of an innovative PPP, a single processing and export organisation for agricultural products. The State will participate with a minority of at least 33% and up to 49% and the administration will have private shareholders following the principles of corporate governance. The new body will operate on the basis of the principles of contract farming to ensure that farmers absorb their products, while reducing the annual variation in their incomes. At the same time, they will have mixed insurance - and private and public - for natural disasters, access to banking on favourable terms, cheaper supply of agricultural supplies and advisory services for suitable crops. The funds required, according to the business plan concerned, amount to EUR 80 000 000 to EUR 150.000 000 according to the strategy to be chosen. The lowest amount is for contract crops, the largest in the case of exports and mergers of existing processing plants. Public participation will be up to EUR 40 000 000 or up to EUR 75 000 on a case-by-case basis, a relatively small investment in the future with huge expected benefits. There is also provision for cooperation between the Agricultural University and similar higher education institutions abroad, for example Israel, for the adoption of the most advanced international production technologies. Another important element of the proposal is the promotion of domestic production of equipment, fertilizers, supplies, software, etc., by replacing the current corresponding imports that - look out! - they reach 80% of the value of our exports, that is, Greece exports agricultural products of 5,000,000,000 euros and imports agricultural equipment of 4,000,000 euros. Net profit just EUR 1,000,000. We can significantly increase exports, strengthen the trend towards return of workers and scientists in the region, as well as the incentives to continuously increase agricultural production, develop know-how, create at least 100 000 jobs and increase the Gross National Product. With a fortress, we can achieve a lot of well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u175	The next speaker is Mr Vassilis Kokkalis from SYRIZA. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill coincides with a historicly sad day. The transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque is an insult to Christian faith, but also an insult to all the civilised people of the world who have lost the opportunity to enjoy a truly monument. I think that there is an undeniable need for a national strategy, which will aim to Greece as a leader of developments and not a pigoon, a national strategy that should be in practice too. The Greek people demand unity these days and we need to set an example. I'm coming to the bill. Minister, the bill certainly contains some positive provisions on the handling of bureaucratic procedures. But I have the impression that the rural world has been waiting for the Ministry of Rural Development and others. In the five-minute speech, I will remind you of what the rural world expects. First of all, farmers expect compensation, this compensation, the little one, of the four euros. There are other charges that will have bothered you, which are asking for compensation. Your position is known to be related to the damage with a coronary. A month ago, Minister, I reminded you that you have the possibility - and I even asked you to go ahead immediately - of having EUR 25 000 000 or EUR 28 000 plus de minimis compensation under Regulation 13 2019. What does this regulation say? The possibility is increased in the Member States for de minimis compensation provided that the national register of Community aid is established. The question is when do you intend to proceed to this national register so that you have plus 25,000 plus de minimis. You understand very well that if you had this possibility, the farmers would probably have taken more money. I hope and sincerely hope that this is the last time I remind you that this national register must be established immediately, because it is the main prerequisite for increasing the de minimis threshold. Secondly, is there great insecurity, uncertainty in the rural world, which is where it consists? It consists of prices. And here we need to make a few things clear. Recently in a timely question you said that guaranteed prices would be disastrous for the farmer and that the phrase 'guaranteed prices' only sounds from farmers in a specific political area. Indicatively, I have never mentioned it, except for the sake of dialogue, the phrase 'guaranteed price'. I mentioned and mentioned the unfair trade practices which the European Union itself, by means of a directive, instructs Member States to implement legislation on the protection of agricultural income. What does the poet want to say, where a poet from the European Union, when he says to the Member States 'incorporated the directive', which he has until June 2021 - 'in your legislation to protect farmers' incomes from unfair commercial practices'? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] And I ask: Do unfair commercial practices usually have nothing to do with price? It is known - you have been disturbed too - that the edible olive has the same price in all the prefectures produced. You said that he is working on it and we are waiting. But farmers want this soon. Where will the farmer refer in case of a cartel finding? Here you must have a close cooperation. I think that this is one of the most important problems for farmers who are listening to us, but also for farmers, that is, the most important problems. Minister, we did so before the European Union told us with the directive. What did we do? The obligation in the contract on cotton sales in June 2019. And it came after two months, and what does the European Union say to the Member States? What you can - you admitted it in time too - is compulsory for products to be sold, compulsory in the contract. So you need to move this forward soon enough. These are the questions and anguishs of the primary sector. And I close, Mr President, and thank you for tolerance. Because the lack of planning and strategy has been mentioned, you know the strategy is not being implemented, it is not exalted, it is not unfolding in one day, in one month, but over the years. The question is what kind of farmer you want. It is the only profession no one is studying. It's the only profession, Minister, which anyone can do, and you and I can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u177	Mr. Red, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u178	The farmer can make the lawyer? The previous speaker mentioned examples very well, what is happening in Israel, what is happening in Iceland. There, however, they have certified the farmer's profession and have established it. By putting photovoltaics on cultivated land, what motive do you give the farmer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u180	We have seen that now. A new intra-government conflict was unfolded. What motives do we give to the farmer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u181	Colleague, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u183	You've already been through a lot of time. Thank you very much. Now Mr. Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fall of the dictatorial regime of 21 April and the restoration of democracy, which we are celebrating today, has been possible after the hard struggles of our people. We therefore pay tribute to all those with a high sense of responsibility, but also high personal costs, have fought against the dictatorship, democracy and freedoms. However, the struggle for democracy is ongoing, it continues and must continue, on the one hand, to counter the risks of undermining, depreciating and weakening it by the forces that have not compromised the idea and the elements that make it up and, on the other, to bring democracy to a substantial degree and to become a social democracy. Of course, it must not be forgotten that today's anniversary of the restoration of democracy coincides with that of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus - the consequence of the betrayal coup of the junta against Macariou - and the continuing occupation of Cyprus. With the so-called international community whispering indifferently, as it "blows" indifferently for the current transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque, an act of attack on Orthodoxy and on the global cultural heritage. Let's come to the bill now. The primary sector - we all say it - can and must be the main area for the development of the Greek economy. At the same time, the health crisis due to a coronary also highlights the existential importance of agri-food production. Support measures are needed and therefore also support for its bodies, farmers, farmers, fishermen, land workers. Therefore, instead of making such measures and practicing their support, the current bill, which is not centrally targeted, is introduced, has fragmentary administrative and administrative management provisions, some in a positive way, which have been pending for a long time and others are a continuation of regulations of SYRIZA governance. But we must accept, Minister, that the situation in which the country's rural world has come is dramatic. The income of farmers and farmers is dramatically reduced. The sale price of many agricultural and livestock products is formed under production costs and collapses. For example, the price of oil and milk. Extreme natural phenomena, as a result of climate change, cause great catastrophes to agricultural crops that are not compensated, are not fully compensated and, in any case, are compensated very much. This, in fact, leads farmers and farmers to the limit of survival, since the cultivation, manufacture and disposal of these products are the only source of income. The direction of the government's agricultural policy forms part of its overall economic policy, aimed at concentrating economic activities, in the case of agricultural production, on a few large and powerful ones. Examples include: The decision on interbranch organisations, with which producers' participation is limited from 30% to 15%. The decisive involvement of individuals in cooperative organisations. The distribution of the new rights to plant vineyards in a new mode of mobilisation, which excludes small producers and favours large producers and large wineries, as well as the restrictive measures taken during the pandemic for the operation of the people's markets, many of which are still going on today. The exclusion of producers through the prohibition of regional movement during the pandemic and distance-keeping has favoured and favoured large commercial chains. The government's refusal to take measures to support olive-growing, through de minimis intervention, the burden on fishermen, who are required to pay a capital tax commensurate with the length of their vessel, the freezing of the change in the ELGA regulation, which was initiated by the previous government, by the SYRIZA Government, but also other regulations and decisions, such as the non-replacement of the work of farmers and fishermen in the categories of aided activities. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I would like to refer to the formulation of the new productive model of sustainable and fair development, which comes to a central priority following the country's exit from the memoranda in August 2018. Following the regional development conferences held on SYRIZA governance and after consulting parties, local government, organised entrepreneurship and institutions, the SYRIZA Government had prepared and launched a draft national development strategy, which at the same time promoted the three dimensions of development, economic, social and environmental, thus signalling the transition to an integrated approach to development policy. The primary sector and the agri-foodstuffs associated with it was the main axis of this design.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u186	I shall conclude, Madam President. Unfortunately, the Greek economy development plan of the Pissaridis Committee, presented by the Government of New Democracy in a narrow circle, moves to the opposite side. It aims to concentrate economic activities on the few, the great and the powerful and, at the same time, ignoring the primary sector, since neither the agri-food complex nor its specialisation in the creation of goodwill is mentioned in the eight of it. It also targeted small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is also the backbone of the Greek economy, by downgrading and defiance of it. These are the two projects that are conflicting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Kotsira has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the debate on today's bill takes place on a very special day. On the one hand, forty-six years after the day of the restoration of democracy, a democracy that is going through a period of long-lived and uninterrupted operation of institutions, and that is a success in the whole of the political system these years. A period when the major choices made by the New Democracy have been confirmed, with the first and main choices of the European orientation of the country by the national ruler Constantine Karamanlis. A choice that today, more than ever, is confirmed after the package that our country ensures, as well as the personal contribution of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to deal with the consequences left by the coronary, over 70 billion. Obviously the European Union has been incomplete in its reaction aspects, but here there is a serious aid, which is a great opportunity for the country, for the next day. Today, too, it is a day of sorrow for all Greeks, for Christians, for the global community, because we see the sad show in Constantinople, but we must all formulate and bronze that no unspeakable reality can alter the true nature of St Wisdom, its inseparable and perpetual connection to Hellenism, Orthodoxy and global civilization and obviously no show, any decree, no judicial decision can change history. The bells that sound all over Greece are the voice of the conscience of Christians against history and, obviously, against a provocation which has no place with the traditions of Western civilization. Today's bill is undoubtedly one, in my view, a very important initiative to modernise the wider public administration, insofar as it relates to the part of rural development, and it becomes even more important after the support package that the European Union will have and the next day for the primary sector in our country. It is a basic will of the New Democracy, the Government and the Prime Minister, to modernise structures so that there can be a pro-investment climate and make it easier for anyone who wants to engage actively in the market and it is very important that the part of agricultural production is treated with an extroversion in this bill. Improving the environment, rural development, by simplifying procedures for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, intensified and unintensive, veterinarians, veterinary and livestock establishments, is certainly a very important reform of the framework for economic activities in the part of primary production. This simplification is achieved through the proposed provisions, in particular, through the reduction of bureaucracy and administrative burdens, through the clear definition of supporting documents for the issue of authorisations for the establishment and operation or of those to be gathered in order to apply for this application, but I will focus on the very important, in my view, section of the general management, the possibility and provision of implied approval of requests. Because here, in essence, the one who wants to issue a licence from the years, which we know very well, is being detached from the administration, which, as a result of a delay, actually held him hostage and vice versa. It's a lot of times the other way around. There was, because of the length of time, an imaginary alleged refusal. So here it is a section which, in my view, needs to be followed more widely in the section of administration, because it gives space, time and real quality to the management-management relationship and that this is done by the Ministry of Rural Development, a bill that really concerns the simplification of procedures, in my view, is the core of being able to get away from reasonable delay in practice rather than from words. Minister, you are well aware - because you have experienced the problems of the area I have the honour of being elected - that in the West Attica, which has a great tradition in agricultural production, although it may not be well known, it is developing livestock farming, cultivation, standardization of peanuts, viticulture, livestock farming, shell production, dairy products and vegetable products. I believe that the next day on the part of our agricultural production, which really must be a very important pillar for the development of the country, must continue to strengthen the role of the new farmer in the Greek economy. I therefore believe that the piece of Attica, which has many advantages both due to distance and available spaces but also because of a very good level of agricultural background, deserves to be supported and I believe that the model that will follow with the great historical opportunity that our country now has to adapt, following the agreement on the European support package and the inclusion of the agricultural sector in it, should not be lost. It is a golden opportunity for the wider Greek economy to change towards the country's most productive development model, and I believe that the Ministry of Rural Development, but also the Government as a whole, will take the lead on this next day in a productive and positive way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u190	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we are celebrating the forty-sixth anniversary of the restoration of democracy in our country, a democracy which our resignation has established and guaranteed. I am proud to belong to a party, which, always choosing the right side of history, ensured the country's progress in the European Union and guaranteed the smoothness of the future, whenever necessary. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the central doctrine of our Government and the pillar of our pre-election commitments is the modernisation of the state, the elimination of bureaucracy and the creation of a pro-business public mechanism. The primary sector is central to economic development and social cohesion in Greece. The primary sector's share of GDP is more than twice as high as the European Union's average. It touches, in other words, 4% against 1.6% in the European Union. If one adds to processing, the agri-food sector produces 8% of GDP. The New Democracy has electorally pledged that the agri-food sector will be a key lever for the country's economic reconstruction and this commitment is carried out by the Ministry of Rural Development with every bill. Each legislative initiative of the Ministry of Rural Development shows that the Government has a strategy and a plan for the primary sector. A strategy which goes undeniably towards modernising, reforming, promoting entrepreneurship and facilitating the daily life of the Greek farmer. This is precisely the spirit of today's bill, which proposes arrangements for exceptional criticality for the creation of a pro-investment and business environment for agricultural economic activities. This is mainly the regulation on the authorisation of economic activities under the Ministry of Rural Development. It has been repeatedly pointed out that bureaucracy prevents and undermines the development of entrepreneurship. We are talking about attracting investment, but this cannot be done unless we have simplified licensing systems in all areas of economic action. Attracting investment may ultimately be easier than rationalising and simplifying the procedures for setting up and operating a business idea. Simplification of administrative procedures and modernisation of licensing systems is not just a technical issue. It is a matter of greater institutional and economic importance. The poor design of the procedures, the lack of flexibility, the slowness of the services of the state have probably contributed to the recent economic decline in our country. The mosaic of polynomialism in conjunction with dysfunctional bureaucracy so far is obstacles to the creation of an environment that is friendly to the investor. We respond to the demands of modern Greek and European entrepreneurs, requirements such as speed, flexibility, entrepreneurship. Greece's exit from the economic crisis and the transition to the next day do not only require economic, but also institutional interventions. Our aim is to create the creativity of Greek entrepreneurs and Greek businesses, as well as the entrepreneurial interest of foreign investors in finding a suitable ground, without bureaucratic impurities. The bureaucracy has proven inhibiting the development of consequences and is a clear incentive for Greeks and foreigners, young and old, small and large businessmen. What's today's bill doing? It serves the professional of the primary sector, the modern farmer. The proposed arrangements simplify the procedures for aquaculture, veterinary surgeons, veterinary clinics, pet farming, livestock establishments. I can also confirm the importance of these regulations for farmers in particular. Areas such as Elassona, are based on the livestock economy for the development of the entire local economy and I know that livestock people welcome such arrangements with enthusiasm. The bill simplifies and redesigns the procedures required to operate these activities. It overcome bureaucratic obstacles to facilitate the development of the agricultural, livestock and fisheries sectors. A period of fifty days shall be established within which the competent authority must either grant approval for the establishment or reject it. If the time limit is shortened, a silent authorisation shall be deemed to be available. He ceases to be a binding system and bureaucracy, waiting for an answer to his request for a period of six months, perhaps a year. There have been some objections about the lack of control as a result of silent approval. My question is: Why confront the Greek businessman and investor with suspicion? That's not our philosophy. The Greek businessman is not by definition illegal and we do not want to treat him as a suspect. We want him to be responsible for what he says. In other words, we are cultivating a culture of professional morality and personal responsibility, which is essential to the development of private initiative. At some point we must all understand that the state and citizens are allies to the joint effort of growth and progress towards the future of economic prosperity. We trust the citizen so he can trust us. The national and global economic context requires a state that is not far from the real economy and society. They demand a state that strengthens and strengthens economic and social development. The perceptions of Greek citizens and professionals about the functioning of the state and administration are well known and unfortunately not positive: suspicion and lack of confidence. We're changing that. The Ministry of Rural Development, with both the current and the previous bill, legislates with the aim of improving the administrative capacity of the state, changing the administrative culture, restoring confidence in the relations between administration and citizens. In short, it legislates to create a user-friendly administration. Before I come out of this Step, I would also like to congratulate the farmers in my constituency, the Minister's leadership and the team who managed to maintain the CAP resources and increase the pillar 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Leonardis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, the historic day of the Republic's anniversary is today. "It keeps the goods above the property." It is always timely to speak of the ancient orator Demosthenes in today's era, because keeping the goods and in this regard democracy is more difficult than getting them. Today, when the clouds of threats from the neighbouring country are densed, the Prime Minister's meeting with the Chiefs of the Anti-Population Parties gives the message of unity, unity and national consensus on national issues. Today, however, it is also a day of grief for the Orthodox world. They have the historical desecration of Holy Wisdom, the symbol of Christianity, and its transformation into a mosque. We must continue to fight strongly in order to raise awareness of the international community and international organisations by taking international initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the historical agreement of the European Union with more than EUR 70 billion for Greece is a national success and a huge opportunity to transform our country with a new, modern development plan. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis gave his mark on how he intends to make use of these funds, with the sole aim of achieving the country's productive reconstruction. Within this huge economic programme for Greece the resources of the Common Agricultural Policy for Greek farmers are included, for the support of the Greek countryside through the development of a national rural development strategy, which will ensure that the population remains in the region. Here I would like to congratulate the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which has fought all this time and with the Prime Minister has achieved these funds in the next programming period for farmers. Even the most ambitious citizen could not imagine the above economic package, with amounts that would allow the Greek economy to make a qualitative leap for bold green development policies, for digital modernisation and skills and for the support of the world of work. By serving its policy of modernising public administration, removing bureaucratic obstacles and creating pro-investment climate, the Government proposes this draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food to simplify the framework for economic activities. The main concern of the bill is to regulate in a uniform and coherent way the licensing of all rural economic activities, to make it easier for investors and businesses to unnecessarily promote their plans for the benefit of rural development and the economy. A stable, transparent, single system for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, veterinary clinics, veterinarians, breeding, breeding and marketing of pets and livestock establishments shall be introduced to contribute to the creation of healthy and competitive enterprises. Red tape and administrative burdens shall be reduced by clearly specifying the supporting documents required for issuing authorisations for the establishment and operation. Thus, it is envisaged that the time should be fixed at 50 days from the date of the application, within which the authorities should reply. A ceiling on the payment of allowances by the ELGA shall be set for beneficiaries who may be granted under the regulations on plant and livestock insurance and may not exceed a total of EUR 70,000 per beneficiary and per year. And since I am referring to ELGA, I believe that in its digitisation in the next period, where I believe that estimates will modernise the system in this digital way, the work of the assessors will be completed quickly for the benefit of farmers. And, of course, the repayment, Minister, of the remaining 35% due to farmers from last year's losses will give the victims an economic breath. I would also like to stress that there are other important issues within the provisions, where the process of granting public real estate for strategic investment is simplified and the attempt to create a pro-investigative climate is strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help mentioning yesterday's procedure with the Ministry of Labour, where the Prime Minister opened the new digital method of issuing pensions. And why am I saying that? Because it starts with the pensions of the OGA and the death-related transfer, as well as the implementation of the Government for discharge - especially for the 2019 tax year - from the trade end for farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 there will be a census of the Greek population, where we will find its huge reduction, the desertification of the countryside, the ageing population and, more generally, the huge demographic problem, which is a time bomb and a national problem. The image of the empty villages is a sad and a duty for all of us to prevent the extinction of the rural area by highlighting agricultural policy focusing on the Greek farmer and farmers, who have been supporting our national economy for decades. Ladies and gentlemen, we must take the twofold opportunity with the Recovery Fund and the new programming period for the agricultural sector with stable resources to boost our national economy. I believe that the reconstruction of the public structures with modern administrative reform and accelerating digital transformation, which is already taking several steps, is a prerequisite and a necessary treaty, so that in the next three years, the actions of the Recovery Fund will be implemented, to change the country's image at all levels. The country is regaining its credibility both abroad and internally, and this has recently been seen under very difficult conditions and has to do with a great deal of work to capitalise on the profits of this effort and continue at a faster rate. A new hope unites us and we need to live up to the expectations of our citizens, who trust us and support us in a simple way for a better life for all, especially for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill today of the Ministry of Rural Development. a bill that I don't think has a specific goal. What can this draft law offer to the productive reconstruction of our country and the important role played by the pillar of the rural economy? But what time are we in and where do we live? In a Europe, but even worldwide, I would say that, on the basis of the pandemic of the coronary, the need to change the model of development is now becoming abundant. It really needs to change the productive, development and consumer model, a model that primarily needs to respect biodiversity and nature, protect nature, as all of these - biodiversity and nature and its protection - actually contain a development dimension. The main policy of the European Union on biodiversity is the 2020-2030, which the European Union has characterised as a decade of biodiversity protection and restoration. Recently, at the end of 2019, the European Union referred to the European Union by a decision beyond the decade of biodiversity and a new strategy, called "From farm to dish" for a fair, healthy, environmentally friendly food system and all these adopted by the European Commission. Today's pandemic, which, unfortunately, we are still experiencing, is only an example. The growing frequency of droughts, floods, forest fires, new harmful organisms keep reminding us that our food system is being threatened and must now become sustainable and durable. Minister, do you have a strategy in particular for the implementation of European policies? Have you submitted to the European Union, as other European Union countries have done, proposals for interventions specifically in the agricultural sector in relation to the pandemic? Do you have a nutritional safety and food adequacy strategy for countries, for our country in this regard? What are the strategies, however, which have been voted on and decided by the European Union in relation to what we call 'From the farm to the plate'? The strategy's objectives are ambitious, but they are very serious and we must consider them: a 50% reduction in the use of pesticide chemicals and a risk associated with them and 50% of the use of the most dangerous pesticides by 2030. Secondly, a reduction in the loss of nutrients by at least 50%, while ensuring that there is no degradation of soil fertility. This will reduce the use of fertilisers by at least 20% by 2030. Reduction by 50% of sales of antimicrobial medicinal products for farmed animals and aquaculture until 2030. Increased areas of organic farming up to 25% of agricultural land by 2030. Finally, this strategy includes the objective of having all rural areas access to fast broadband by 2025 to allow digital innovation. In order to achieve the objective of organic farming in the European Union, it is necessary to ensure sustainable economic growth in the sector and to promote demand. Apart from the measures of the common agricultural policy - ecological programmes, investments, advisory services, measures of the common fisheries policy - the European Commission will present an action plan specific to organic farming. This will help Member States to stimulate both supply and demand for organic products. It will ensure consumer confidence through environmental public procurement campaigns. Climate change and biodiversity loss are imminent persistent threats to food security and living conditions. So we are talking here today, while Europe is talking about digital agriculture, which implements it, it says that the intelligent implementation of agriculture - wherever it is implemented - has led to a 45% reduction in costs. Europe, in other words, raises issues. You and this draft law, Minister, do not actually give anything new. What have you been doing a new year at the Ministry of Rural Development? Do you have a development plan, other than entering the cooperatives? Article 20 in the repealed provisions states that the Department of Strategic Planning and its responsibilities are repealed. It is not enough that the strategic planning for research is assigned to the Ministry of Development's General Secretariat for Research and Technology, but the bill lacks development strategy. I would like here to address an issue concerning the European Union's objective and the 'From farm to dish' programme. The Minister raised a number of objections to the relevant committees. Mr. Vorides isn't here right now. We would therefore like a great debate to take place on how we see and how the European Union strategy will be implemented by the Ministry of Rural Development, which can have some difficulties, because changing a model of decades is not an easy case for farmers, but a serious debate at Parliament level. In conclusion, I will say that a serious issue for the agricultural sector is still funding and a lack of liquidity. The banks do not finance, the Development Bank has not yet started financing for farmers. Based on the 2020 European Investment Bank report for Greece, the most dynamic part of the rural economy, our young farmers, applicants for funding that they cannot get. These are serious issues, Mr Ministers, and the Ministry of Rural Development, in addition to a development plan to be tabled, must discuss them seriously and put some bases on, otherwise you are simply working on a situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. Mr Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to refer to the bill and the issues that have been heard in this Chamber, I would like to refer to something very important, which is unfortunately taking place today in our neighbouring country of Turkey, namely Istanbul, where a black page is written in history. I am referring, of course, to the conversion of Saint Wisdom into a mosque. This is a flagrantly insulting energy from the neighbouring country, its government and its President, with which, unfortunately, the whole world community is insulting, moving on to this unregulated energy for this emblematic monument of Christianity. Of course, we must say that, as it turns out, this is a part, a part, of a comprehensive escalation plan, as it seems at least, of Turkey's aggression towards neighbouring countries, to Greece and not just. I am referring to the beginning that took place with the intangible transfer of illegal immigrants to our borders at Evros, which attempted to pressure Greece, was repelled with enormous efficiency by the Greek Government, from the state machine, as a whole from the Greek society, which they obviously did not expect. This aggression continues through the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque and goes with NAVTEX and with all the other actions that Turkey is doing, but it should know that it will have against it, whatever time it attempts, a united Greek people, a united political system, which will do everything it requires in every way and through all means to prevent any attempt by Turkey to violate our sovereign rights. At the same time, of course, when this is happening in the neighbouring country, we now have a day of historical memory, a celebration of democracy, as we used to say, the restoration of democracy in our country forty-six years ago, which has put our country on a path of progress, harmonious coexistence with the neighbouring peoples and the well-being of our people. Because I have listened to many of my fellow Members, in particular Mr Famello, that at times this democracy may be threatened or reduced, I will say, ladies and gentlemen, that democracy is only reduced when inequality prevails, when the political destiny is dominated in this Chamber too. Only then can democracy be reduced. Unfortunately - and I also link it to the bill - inequality often dominates in this Chamber, deliberately or unwillingly, often drifting from the day and from the flow of speech. But with political purposes we have also seen what can finally happen when over and above the public interest some politicians - just for their political survival - are unfairly trying to destroy their political opponents. Only then will democracy be reduced, but of course there are those forces which maintain and move on to the next steps a city which has so far only been well in our country. From there on, I would like to say that I have listened very carefully to the SYRIZA rapporteur in committee and today in plenary, and I have to put some things in their place. In particular, I read from the minutes of the debate in Parliament's Committee on Production and Trade on the bill that 'until today' said my dear colleague, 'was not toward the country', I read exactly what he said, 'not a euro supply from this government to deal with the consequences of the pandemic'. Below he spoke of de minimis - it is not de minimis, of course - for farmers of the 32 million euro we have announced, EUR 4 per sheep, per animal declared, when the previous government gave - supposedly - EUR 42 million to support the country's rural population and, in particular, farmers. I come here to say that inequality does not help the debate and it certainly does not help the constructive opposition, because everyone knows - and you know, however, or do not want to understand it - that the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has already distributed EUR 150 million, first of all, as he has said, to support farmers from the effects of the pandemic, and that compensation has already been made to the growers, to the fishermen - the Minister will speak about this in detail recently, to the growers, to aquaculture, to farmers, as we said 4 euros per animal declared. We have moved into the coronary into a regulation of the debts of the farmers to PPC, which enabled thousands of farmers to regulate their debts to PPC and thus to reconnect their benefits and to be able to irrigate their fields. We have made a set of arrangements where with 15% of the advance and nineteen to twenty-four instalments one can proceed with reconnecting one's supply. I would remind you that in your term of office and your country's governance a farmer had to give 30% and 40% of the advance in order to be able to reconnect. I will also say that we are suspending the payment of the trade fee horizontally to all farmers, so this is an additional revenue of EUR 650 which did not have and we do that horizontally to all the main-professional farmers. The statements are now complete. By the end of the month they would have to pay 650 euros. That they don't have to do. Of course, as the Prime Minister himself said, but also government officials, we are exploring and trying to find a financial space so that we can gradually abolish the trade charge on a permanent basis to other professional sectors. Also, before the krone, we went on to disconnect insurance contributions with the taxable, declared income from farmers, and so there were farmers who paid 5,000 euros, 10,000 euros, 4,000 euros of insurance contributions to the OGA, because you as a government had linked insurance contributions to the taxable income. We abolished this and prevented it, and now he can choose his insurance class and depending on his financial capacity, he may pay less or more and will of course get a lower pension. However, we have abolished an unfavourable tax rug, which is up to 30% of the taxable income. Of course, we also reduced taxation by the time we started ruling this place in July 2019, from 22% from 8,600 to 10,000 euros - 8,600 is the tax-free limit - to 9% and that is how farmers got 182 euros. So, EUR 182 and EUR 650 the chief professional farmers, about 830 euros, have a benefit as this government has changed since your term of office. Of course, we do not stop here, we go further, because the coronary has proved that Greece must now be transformed into a country that produces more in the agricultural sector, not just in manufacturing and industry, but we must produce more. A great deal has been said about the multiannual financial framework and the resources of the new CAP. Let me tell you some things that you probably do not know about, and that is why you are wrongly referring to what resources are included in the new CAP and what our farmers have to take. When you were ruling in the fifth month of 2018, the European Commission's original proposal for Greece provided for EUR 18.2 billion for the new programming period for the new CAP, namely EUR 18,263,000. This was when you ruled and when you negotiated. After the summit in the second month of 2020, which participated as Greek Prime Minister, 18,263,000 euros became 18,743,000 euros, i.e. about 500 million more. I repeat, after the government had changed and the Government of the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis had come, the Prime Minister took part in the summit in the second month of 2020. After the last session that took place and participated by the Greek Prime Minister, the new CAP comprises €19.501.000 for Greek farmers. The CFP would be 18,200,000, 000 million at the time when you negotiated in the fifth month of 2018, 19.5 billion euros, i.e. 1.3 billion more is the resources of the new CFP for the new programming period 2021-2027 after the Greek Prime Minister and of course the Government, according to what took place in the last session. Of course we don't stop there, because we also have the money from the Recovery Fund. And there, of course, the primary sector has an important role to play. We are already preparing as a Ministry a national plan for the reconstruction of environmental infrastructure. The day before I visited Laconia Laconia. There on the right and left on the road we have seen how farmers are irrigated. He's in your area. It was you, Mr. Colleague, former Minister. You saw there that the channels they use are open channels, either earthy or cement, to irrigate their fields and have been built in 1960. Today, the vast majority of Greek farmers use agricultural infrastructure that was built forty, fifty and sixty years ago. Finally, there has been a government, Mr Mitsotakis himself, who is interested in and who is moving forward with an ambitious reform, perhaps the biggest reform that has ever been done with regard to rural infrastructure in that country. We are talking about a national plan that is uniform, coherent, where we reflect the existing needs for irrigation water and we are building the necessary infrastructure so that our farmers can irrigate their land in an environmentally friendly and economically economic way. Today, huge amounts of water are lost. We're not using water. On the contrary, an environmental crime is being created and carried out, since 60-65% of the water we use for irrigation is derived from the underground water-saving horizons, so that their level is also reduced in Laconia - you know it very much - in many other areas of the country and in Pieria and on the coasts of Thessaly and Larissa and in eastern Macedonia and Thrace and in central Macedonia and in western Greece and the islands. The refractory effect is here. It's estimated that it's 60% of today's irrigated areas. If we do not do something, over the next few decades, because of climate change, they will turn into dry land, they will be devastated. Desertification is the great risk, and today we cannot talk about a single strategic plan, both for precision agriculture and for new farming practices and for farmers to survive, when we do not guarantee the adequacy and quality of the most important resource that is water in our country, in a country that is raining, but which we only employ 11% of rain and surface water. That is what we are preparing, and of course we are planning beyond and above the new CAP resources, we will see what resources will be directed, precisely to provide a permanent solution through rural infrastructure, which has never been uniformly done in this country. Also, the way grants and the new programming period have been calculated and the comparison is: by taking what we have given, what farmers will receive in 2020 by multiplying the 2020 resources from the current 2020 period for seven years, which is the seven future years. For the photovoltaics, I don't have to say anything. We put a roof on how one could come and build agricultural photovoltaics in the country and I explain to understand why I heard from the Greek Solution, but also from various parties, colleagues having questions and rightly may have. In the Trikala I am elected we have about a thousand five hundred kilometres of provincial and national networks. Two hundred and two hundred, four hundred meters on either side of the national and provincial network, one could go to build photovoltaics. To date we have been talking, yesterday, last year, by way of derogation from all the texts, by taking a small-scale licence from town planning. What does that mean? Four hundred yards, one thousand miles, we're talking about over five hundred thousand acres. The total rural land of Trikala is less than four hundred thousand acres. What did we come here talking about? The ceiling is 1%, whether it is on either side of the national network or outside this zone, within the GSP, you can build a photovoltaic up to 1% of the area used. In other words, in the five hundred thousand acres in one county, up to five thousand acres can only be used to manufacture photovoltaics. Why are we doing this? Because today Greek farmers could not go to build a small photovoltaic next to them and have a symptomous income. We want this and we also support it through the Agricultural Guarantee Fund, through the EIF, the European Investment Bank and the European Fund, where we are able to finance such investments, but also through a financial instrument from the European Investment Bank, from two systems banks in the country, the National and Piraeus, EUR 200 million will be directed towards such investments to help Greeks chiefly profession farmers survive. I have not heard any criticism of today's bill on substance. In other words, I have not heard anyone disagree with some of the provisions that we have introduced for discussion. And because this has been heard too, if it is, at the end of the day, a bill of reform or non-reformist, important or not, or because it contains provisions of different substance, so it is not good and should not come, said my colleague, Mr Boukokouros in committee: Greece is not suffering from laws. We have laws. The point is that these laws function, that we apply and correct any errors. We come here and correct errors, so we legislate in a proper way to help Greek farmers. And so, for example, we are giving the possibility of a great problem involving wild boars and the disasters that these are doing today in huge areas of the country, especially in plantations such as corn, fruit and vegetables, fruit and vegetables and so forth, finally being able to hunt and fight this problem, which is no other solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u197	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u198	I shall conclude, Madam President. As the possibility is for hundreds of thousands of “guns”, abandoned installations that are built on high productivity land to be exploited in the interests of Greek farmers and thus to process Greek agricultural products and add added value. No one disagrees with that. Thank you very much and I expect to see what will happen at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, raise your hand. You want to talk about something?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u200	As a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u201	Others precede. I'll put you in order. Now Mr. Maraveyas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the day that Greece celebrates the restoration of democracy, Erdogan is trying to hurt our national pride. But I think it is precisely the opposite that we want to show the law of Greek positions in the international community and, of course, everyone must assume their responsibilities towards a problem that is not Greek, but from the whole of Europe. In fact, now, the bill. Mr Ministers, today's bill has as its core the facilitation of the creation of new units in primary production. In other words, it is about simplifying the approval of aquaculture, livestock and other support activities and, as a basic objective, it aims to improve the environment in which their owners are called upon to operate, which is achieved mainly by reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens. This reduction will in some cases include the tacit approval of the installation, if the time-limit in question has elapsed. Another measure against bureaucracy is simply electronic disclosure, not licensing, of the operation of such holdings, by abolishing all the relevant paper mills. Here the Ministry begins to use the single digital portal of public administration, using a new electronic platform to facilitate both farmers and entrepreneurs. The bill, however, is not just left to them. I would like to stand by, Minister, in Article 7, for the use of agricultural capital, which concerns agricultural parcels which have been characterised as a land of high productivity. As you know, the alternative use of these land for the production and electricity of renewable energy plants has been authorised by a recent law. For example, in Magnesia, we have large investment projects in progress to install photovoltaic parks. These are investments that will enhance both farmers' incomes and the production of green energy in a prefecture such as Magnesia, which has very large wealthy sources. For this reason, and because it has already been made extremely clear from the wording of the above provision, what are the intended uses of this agricultural chapter, I think that a legislative improvement in Article 7 would be necessary to eliminate the unnecessary reassurance that this will only apply for reasons which serve the agricultural character of the agricultural holding or the establishment of renewable energy stations. It is obvious that these very uses are spoken of by the article. I think that the legislative improvement I am proposing helps to simplify the wording of the provision and the simpler wording always helps to understand better. Minister, I would also like to draw attention to the importance of Article 13, especially to the promotion of strategic investment in the region. It is very important that any interested parties can use - in respect of a price naturally paid to the State - public land in order to facilitate the establishment or operation of production units. Long-term investments in the secondary and tertiary sector, beyond the primary sector, which obviously focuses on this bill, are very often based on the possibility of spatial expansion of their units. This is obviously equivalent to access to untapped areas of the Greek countryside, most of which belong to the Ministry of Rural Development. More generally, for the Greek region and especially for Magnesia, which has a huge unexploited potential in its countryside, a strong incentive is given to new investors to come with better prospects and to install their businesses. It is a place blessed by God, with a key geographical location that offers a dense combined transport network. The bet is precisely the use of this huge advantage and that is where the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis serves. Madam President, Article 18, which extends until the end of 2020, is also in the same positive direction. I would like to stress here that this concerns only seasonal agricultural work and does not affect the employment of Greek unemployed in other sectors. I would also remind you that, especially in the agricultural sector, the New Democracy, by a law that we recently passed, has prompted the Greek unemployed to work on agricultural work without losing their subsidies from the OAED. On the occasion of this exceptional facility by the producers, I would like to acknowledge the timely treatment by the Ministry of Agriculture of the acute problems and sheep and goatmeat because of the horn pandemic. This year, therefore, the decision of the Minister responsible, Mr Voridis, to establish the aid linked to the year 2019 in the sheepmeat and goatmeat sector was adopted sooner than ever. In fact, the aid was fixed at EUR 10,65 per eligible animal, which is the highest amount awarded from all previous years and its payment was made directly. A total of EUR 52.5 million was therefore paid to nearly thirty-eight thousand beneficiaries and to my county, for example, that aid has already been paid for three months. For example, for this type of aid only in 2019 it was paid to six hundred forty farmers in Magnesia amounting to EUR 1.1 million. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it is not wrong to recognise the positive measures taken by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis every day. On the contrary. The absolute refusal of any existing improvement in the standard of living of our farmers deceives you in their eyes and leads your opposition to pheasyness, as was unfortunately the case with Alexis Tsipras' last visit to Killer, where SYRIZA's President, touching the border of graphics, appeared as a new Marinos Antypas. The small turnout of citizens and the low intensity response of SYRIZA officials in Thessaly has shown that Mr. Tsipras does not convince the role of the rebel protector of farmers. And that's because he just went to denounce the New Democracy Government for everything, at the same time forgetting all the facts of your own government. So he made the mistake of talking about farmers, who only from sheep milk lost on average EUR 100 million each year, from the drop of his price to 80 cents per kilogram. Mr Tsipras dared to speak of farmers, who on SYRIZA did not have a new irrigation infrastructure project. He reached the point of invoking his so-called full support for the cooperative movement, forgetting that you voted against the bill for agricultural cooperatives in March. On the contrary, the Mitsotakis government has taken advantage of all farmers, essentially helped the OGA pensioners to continue to work on production without losing their retirement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u204	Your understanding for a second. The New Democracy supported farmers and fishermen with EUR 150 million only for the emergency measures to address the consequences of the coronary and released EUR 50 million in de minimis aid. We expect SYRIZA once to operate with the data set by reality. And as the former Chief of Firefighting said: "I'm telling you to wake up, so the game is playing." The fact that you're changing a game as it suits you, depending on whether you're government or opposition, does not resurrect the encouragement of your former Chief of Firefighting to wake up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u205	Now Mr Baraliacos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, forty-six years after the restoration of democracy in our country, a founding act that bears the seal of the nation's ruler and founder of the New Democracy of Constantine Karamanlis, but also of all Greek citizens, is our lasting debt and our self-evident duty to safeguard the goods and safeguard the privileges of our country. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make another comment on today's day, which is so sad in Christianity and is injuring the universal character of Hellenism. Agia Sophia will always be in our soul, despite her provocative desecration. Today the bells are beating mourning, but our memories are deep and unchangingly rooted. No one can cut them off. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, continues in the same spirit of rationalisation and a sound settlement of outstanding issues from where the last passed by Parliament ended. It shows that the communication channels of the Ministry of Rural Development's leadership with the rural world are open, lasting and substantial. It is also obvious that at a difficult time due to pandemic, where production, care and harvesting of crops, as well as ensuring a continuous flow in the food chain, have experienced difficulties, problems have been drastically reduced, losses have been minimised and arrhythmias have been introduced immediately. This builds up an absolute tradition of dialogue and mutual trust with our farmers, who are mainly a pillar of the Greek society and of the Greek economy. In addition to the conditions, the public debate on how the primary sector will be transformed qualitatively and quantitatively into a lever for the reconstruction of our country's productive model, the creation of wealth and the export orientation of our products to an even higher and higher degree. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to point out that with paragraph 4 of Article 18, the final provisions of this bill, a major issue is resolved, which had caused reasonable concern to our farmers. Thus, the deadline for posterior land workers is extended until 31-12-20. The employer who wishes to recruit a third-country citizen will apply to the competent foreign service and migration of the decentralised administration of his place of residence in order to employ him in the seasonal rural economy. This is how it will be regulated for another six months, the way in which our producers will ensure that agricultural crops continue unnecessarily, agricultural products will be harvested and they will eventually reach the final consumer. At the same time, the State itself will ensure revenue by covering the insurance contributions of third country land workers through the bachelorship. That is why, Mr President and Mr Ministers, I am sending you the satisfaction of the farmers in the Pierre world for the immediate and effective regulation of the issue, which after 30 June had caused reasonable concerns. In addition, the provisions of the draft law simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of intensive and semi-intensive aquaculture units, veterinary clinics, pet animals and livestock establishments. In order to facilitate, improve the entrepreneurial environment of the agricultural sector, and hence to strengthen rural entrepreneurship, the economy and growth, the procedures necessary for their operation shall be substantially simplified and redesigned. With a liberal spirit, this bill continues to remove bureaucratic obstacles across the range of agricultural activities, minimise administrative burdens and simplify procedures, making more attractive and accessible specific economic activities. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to emphasise the need to support the effort to overcome the traditional bulkheads of the primary sector and to turn our rural world into the adoption of best practices and the introduction of business tools in their production. The visionary policy of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is unfolding over time, can place the agricultural enterprise in the lead of the high quality search for top agricultural products worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u207	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u208	Very important today, the day of the restoration of democracy, but at the same time the beginning of a period that Greece today can say with certainty that it is the best period in its modern history. We have made considerable progress and it is our honour, our honour and my party that participated in the best way and decisively in achieving this great progress in post-multiple change. At the same time, however, we have to say that this period was unnecessarily inappropriate, because of many factors we had setbacks. The people have already experienced a ten-year-old crisis with a significant impact on the successes of the previous period, particularly on the standard of living, on its quality of life and on the economy in general. What comes as a lesson from the evaluation of our country's path to Transmigration is that it is not often enough to achieve things, to make progress, to succeed in society, but you also need to ensure the sustainability of this progress. And the sustainability of progress requires vigilance so that everything required by changes at European and global level, everything that needs to be done at our place because of great competition, which exists in relation to issues affecting all countries worldwide, can be achieved in the best way. The combination of sustainable development and social justice is the way forward for us in the next period and to address the effects of the crisis, which is now just beginning, a crisis that our country certainly has quite different conditions than those of 2009 to deal with. I would remind you that today we do not have the beastly deficits caused by derailment that existed in 2009, not only empty funds, but also huge deficits. I would remind you that Europe was indifferent at that time. I would remind you that at that time Greece was completely divided among those who believed there had to be decisions and programmes to deal with the crisis and those who said that nothing needs to be done. So now that we have not only surpluses of course from the overtaxation of the previous period - bloody, but surpluses - we also have a Europe that took decisions and made decisions to support with 30 billion to deal with the pandemic, the forty is of course the ESRB, which, otherwise, we were entitled to, and the resources from the common agricultural policy. As a whole, however, our country, of course, has a hugely positive condition, a great tool, and it is not entitled to have negative effects either on the economy or on society. It's not an easy crisis. Let's say that. But we have the conditions to have the least possible negative effects. In this context, the agricultural sector, which is a common assumption that it is severely affected, not only because there has been a dismantling of production over the previous period, not only because we have experienced a contradictory policy from the previous government, but because the problems of the pandemic have also been added, which have increased and increased the obstacles to the disposal of products, have cut off roads and at the same time have caused problems in the production process. In Greece, agricultural production is directly linked to tourism, which absorbed a large proportion of the products, and is now most affected. The products are not absorbed and the prices available are lower. We have strongly criticised the absence of substantial measures to support the agricultural sector, which are suffering from a lack of liquidity, with an increased risk of abandoning crops and limiting production, with what this means for the country's food adequacy. As a movement of change, however, we have also tabled the interim programme, with processed positions and proposals, in order to address this recession, which has already hit our door. We have proposed payment since May, since June, of 50% of the aid - it is about 850 million - in order to ensure liquidity in a critical period, in order to continue cultivation, so that our farmers can produce the next growing season. That has not been accepted so far. We hope that within the next few days and weeks the Ministry will accept it, because it needs to be done. We have proposed financial instruments for providing liquidity in line with those of businesses, even using returnees, i.e. about 450 million released from the European Union's fines. The government did not make any decisions, but it did not fulfil its current obligations, at least on time. They're redeeming indemnity. In olive oil production it has become a rival. Apart from the depreciation caused by specific political decisions - not so much by Mr Arachovitis, but by Mr Apostle, who was preceded by that famous first decision in which he agreed in the European Union to increase the quantities of olive oil imported into our country and others - we have three years of substantially reduced production, reduced income for farmers. Last year's disaster was studied by both the previous government and you. It cannot be almost a year and a half that the services cannot haunt the damage and ask the Minister to submit the dossier to the European Union to demand compensation. Recently, in my question, Minister, he said that the dossier is almost ready and will be submitted. A year and a half later. It seems that speed is something rare in this place, even for eyeless things. For me, he didn't need any study. It was a matter of Greek decision. In any case, though, even now, run. There's no room for relaxation. There is no room to postpone payments of compensation, either in the olives or in the vines, which have also been affected by the heat and from recent rainfall and, of course, in the greenhouses, in the countryside. We have called for the de minimis regulation to be fully used to replace the lost income of all categories of agricultural production. Payment of specific support to all farmers, inclusive. We have asked traditional farmers to join support measures and Crete should not be excluded from the rule on the islands. The provision of the Constitution for special care for the islands does not exclude Crete. What many ministers do and they say that this care for islands excludes Evia, Lefkada and Crete is a misinterpretation. Because Lefkada and Evia for some specific reasons, which is the fixed link, are excluded from the European Union and are not considered islands. However, Crete is thus excluded by a political decision. And it is not possible by political decision to exclude and not apply all a provision of the Constitution. Minister, we have not yet seen the specialisation of the European Union's decisions, which farmers have heard with hope, that up to seven thousand euros, depending on the loss of income, will also be able to support rural businesses up to fifty. That's not special. The calculations made by some technocrats concern fourteen thousand farmers who were affected in our country, I think it is a mockery. Do not apply it at all. Find ways to make use of the resources to support everyone. I want to deal with two issues, which are not directly related to the bill, but are related to the bill. Finally a trade for farmers. The conditions imposed have changed. This must be abolished. It is not enough to give a discharge for a year that the Treasury legislates with the bill that will come to Parliament on Wednesday. We must finally abolish the trade fee for all farmers. A very important issue is the additional tax on agricultural real estate, which is suspended every year, but which remains in force as a 'tangible break' over the farmers' head and causes enormous insecurity. The 1% cap for the installation of the photovoltaics is applied in a general way, without specific rules, so the land of high productivity is destroyed. When it is intended to protect the land of high productivity, it cannot be estimated that the rest of the land will enter, but that which is exploited and granted for photovoltaics is highly productivity. Per belt, yes. Per regional section, no. This can't be happening. A serious issue has arisen with the intention of the Ministry of the Environment to abolish the right to legal construction in non-project areas, which in many cases belong to farmers and rural families, with a provision which does not solve any question. There will be a huge problem, as real estate will be depreciated which will reduce its economic value by just one regulation. For all the above, the bill gives no solution. It does not add anything, and in this spirit it does not respond to the urgent conditions of the agricultural sector, as well as the farmer and the farmer. The bill we are discussing, however, has a nice title: 'Simplification of framework for the exercise of economic activities by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions'. It's a very good title. Except that it is not justified by the contents of the bill. I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President. The bill is fragmentary. It solves some very few, very few, individual issues, deals ineffectively more and does not contain much necessary. It's also characterized by sloppyness. Of course, it is not in the context of a visionary plan, because there is no visionary plan and strategic study for rural development. The government thus proves that the agricultural sector, although it has a remarkable Minister, does not consider it a priority. He doesn't want or can't plan the future strategically, even though that's imperative. I will only mention three reasons. Firstly, in order to cover the delays in the previous years and the gaps in the previous SYRIZA government, which together we had denounced, criticised and voted against, but now you are not dealing with. Secondly, to address the problems of pandemic. I have already talked about this. Thirdly, the prospect and the new needs arising from the increasingly competitive environment, European and international, to which our country is moving and to which our products are addressed, must have the strength of competitiveness. But let me come to the contents of the bill, with two examples. First, you have an ELGA arrangement. I would remind you that after the first phase of the ELGA reform in 2011, its economic reassurance and the upgrading of its operation, to which I would remind you again were opposed, and you, SYRIZA, had to go ahead with the second phase, the change in the regulation with improvements and supplements. Five to six years have been lost, and with the previous government, and you continue and are not being harmed by the new risks that have arisen, whether because of the climate crisis or other causes. Furthermore, it is equally important that you bring about the reintroduction of the upper limit of compensation in respect of what ELGA will pay. You have a plan to be up to 70,000, but at the same time what the farmer is paying for remains on the high 12,000 plaque, as the previous government had established. What are these nice things? In other words, we are in a hurry here. There will be a wall on either side or there will be no room, there will be no more than 12,000, but there will be no more of it. Our view is that there must be the plaque of EUR 3,600. You are also not dealing with a serious issue which has been identified and which needs to be changed, that of reduced compensation, that of a rather reduced rate of compensation. They say it's subtracted 22%, 24%. It never works 80% of the damage. That's an unfair thing, because the farmer pays a premium for 100%. Or raise the premiums, if you think they're too little or keep them, because we think they're fair to what has been established. Let's go a percentage in the first phase, remove a 10%. 25% is a large percentage and it is not justified. A second indicative example. A provision for the authorisation of livestock establishments shall be introduced. We believe that the problem is not solved by the arrangement you bring, it is complicated. And if it really is a regulation that hides it under the carpet, then in the next period it will become more intense, at risk of aid being lost then. You are introducing other regulations and, indeed, you are entering into details and it is a good question because you do not deal seriously, such as the agri-food partnerships, so that the interventions aimed at production, tourism and gastronomy can be made meaningful. We believe, in other words, that this bill could have a provision that promotes agri-food partnerships. You are aware that Mr Apostlelos had brought in a provision that abolished the possibilities of agri-food partnerships. It has removed them from their powers and, above all, has the potential for certification. The agri-food partnership is a modern collective action tool for local actors. We introduced it in 2011, precisely to play this role flexibly. The products of the region can be traced back to the potential of producers, certified and promoted in the European and international market, of course contributing to the national economy and to the increase in the income of farmers themselves. The homicide program continues, despite the fact that you understood the mistakes made by the previous ones. The same, "the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same, the same. " The competition for this year's medicines was still not complete. You haven't received them yet. The regions will arrive, he says, in September. Listen, listen! Fortunately, there was that extra funding that was for the workforce and in Crete, for example, gave it to take medicines, so that they could not be found beforehand. We're on the third spray, and the Ministry hasn't given the drugs yet. Works and days and previous days. What change? Was there a change? You have brought two amendments. You didn't manage to change that particular one. I now come to the two amendments which have been tabled. One is our proposal to reintroduce a provision which had been introduced since 2003, since PASOK, which allowed for the establishment and operation of shelters, centres, that is, treatment and residence of stray and dominant animals, in accordance with the terms and conditions already in force. Under this provision, municipalities, but also the obligation, I would say, are better able to ensure the necessary areas for the establishment and operation of sheltered pet animals, as required by law, and the question of the proper management and reduction of stray animals is ultimately regulated. We invite you to accept it, Minister, and to support the other parties. We support the amendment to resolve the issue of forced expropriated legacy for the construction of the new Kastelion airport. It was an amendment that we proposed to you in a previous bill. And then, because you hadn't been able to study it, you were committed to evaluating it and bringing it to a next bill. It is one of the issues you have responded to and we obviously support this provision. After all, during the previous period, we had worked with the colleagues and the Senetakis present in order to promote and I think it would be more widely accepted. But, as I said, "with the bride, you can also give us the little sister-in-law." We'll take the bride, we'll take the little sister-in-law home! There's a problem. It can't be done. Yesterday at noon, when you tabled the amendment, at the Conference of Presidents that I participated with Mr Constantinople and Mrs Sakorafa, we had a debate on the amendments tabled and received many articles. We said 'Happy!', it cannot be a different subject and be together. What other articles of the bill go "pack two - two"? There goes a package of an article and says that if you vote, you have to vote for the other one. There is nothing else, only the amendment. So, um, we make it easier with the institution of the amendments that the Ministries, Members of Parliament, have at least tabled at the last minute on the basis of emergencies. Um, you misuse it and bring two, three, five, ten amendments. One day he had twelve amendments to a bill. Because it is difficult technically to do this, I said that either the Ministries will bring separate amendments or it will be segregated here. It can be separated, I've asked him. In any case, there is a problem with the provision that you are bringing about fishing and purse seines. It's not clear. It will cause problems and, in that sense, we are more than skeptical and reflectiond. I believe it is your duty, Minister, not to deprive us of the right to vote clearly on the individual articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u209	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u210	I'm closing, Madam President. I close my position with a word, again by pointing out that the primary sector, all its branches, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, poultry farming, apiculture, apiculture, apiculture, apiculture are in front of huge problems, whether accumulated so far or what has been caused so far, if we do not look at them in the future, with a visionary plan. We, therefore, as a Change Movement, put forward proposals and we will insist on addressing specific problems. We will insist on sustainable solutions being given, because, as I have said before, we are not investing in the disaster to retrospectively say'seen where we were right'? We are investing in solutions and not dealing with problems or with as few problems as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u211	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u212	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I place myself on the bill, I regret the early loss of our former MP and good colleague of the Evros Dimitris Rizzos Prefecture. From the Step of the House I am addressing my warmest condolences to his family and the Civic Opposition, which a year ago was sitting on the benches here. Today we are celebrating forty years from the restoration of democracy in our country, at the expense of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. We have forty-six years of political stability, democracy and peace, despite the crises of an economic and social nature. However, the historic anniversary is being vindicated by a tragedy, a crime that takes place in the neighboring King by the desecration of Agia Sophia. It is an action that causes global feeling, proves the eternal obsession of a conqueror with the symbols of Christianity, Hellenism and Orthodoxy. The fanatical Muslims today will worship in the Holy One of God Sofia, under the eyes of the Almighty and Theotokou. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they will kneel in greatness and truth! The symbols have their own dynamics and underline what wins are and what defeats are! And now on our point. With this draft law, Minister, we welcome farewell to bureaucratic hails and welcome pro-investment arrangements. The aim is to facilitate the licensing of all economic, investment and business activities related to the primary sector. In particular, for Evros, solutions are being given to important issues relating to agriculture, livestock and fisheries, which are the main sources of income from the local residents. Simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, livestock establishments, veterinarians, clinics, pet farms and others. A fixed period of time shall be provided for fifty days from the date of the submission of the application within which the authorities are required to reply. In addition, I welcome the arrangements that improve the fiscal situation of the ELGA, which promotes its economic reassurance. It is only in this way that our farmers can be compensated in time, as is required in a serious state. Very important, too, is the possibility of hunting feral pigs and semi-wild pigs throughout the hunting year, in order to address the problems that have arisen near the border and not just because of overcrowding. I would stress that agricultural crops in Evros have suffered considerable damage from the ravages of feral pigs in the past. Mr President, a year ago I told you that and I had asked for action. A significant proportion of these feral pigs come from the two neighbouring countries and especially from the one that is currently ungodly. The measure satisfies both our hunters and our farmers, while solving an issue with both environmental and economic benefits. I want to stand by the aquaculture units soon. Prerequisite, Minister, for the reopening of farms in the Evros Delta is the restoration of damage from the catastrophic floods of 2012 and 2015. I want to inform you that we have three lakes that are not exploitable. That is why I consider the prerequisite, of course always in line with the regulatory presidential decree, which will provide for the whole management framework of the Evros Delta. I welcome the support provided by the current government to the unreasonable value and natural well-being of the Evros Delta. I would also remind you that the main entrance gate of zoonoses from the East to the West is the Evros catchment area. Why am I saying it? Because through parliamentary control, and not only for six years, I demonstrate the need for the establishment of a European veterinary school in Evros between the Twins and Orestiad, in cooperation of course with the Democritus Agronomic School in Orestiad, but also the Interstate Institute of Exotic Diseases, which awaits its missionary resurrection. They will be a scientific blockade to prevent animal diseases imported from Easter zoonoses, with multiple benefits for Greece and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the neighbouring country is shaking, we must remember that the greatest alternative deterrent force is to strengthen business activity in the remote region of Evros and the islands, of course. It is important to restrain our population and ensure a lasting human presence at the border. To this end, I have asked for parliamentary control by our hunters and inland waterway fishermen to reach the standards of safety up to the border. Unfortunately, the then Minister, who is present, lifted the ban on land borders with Bulgaria, but kept a fish for the river borders with the neighbouring country. But the justice and verification came. If Greece, Madam President, has won its first post-war victory over the neighbouring country, it is due first of all to the unified doctrine of the security and defence of the Prefecture of Evros, as well as to the doctrine of prevention by force. Above all, however, it is due to the local society, particularly those executives, the Evritians who live near the river and the settlements there. I am voting in favour of the draft law under discussion, because it has been lifted and I look forward to further development arrangements for the benefit of Evros and the country. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Fotillas from New Democracy has the floor now and the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Arachovitis immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with something that in itself is a presumption of success of this bill. This is the list of Members who have been registered to speak in today's bill. They are thirty Members who have been written to speak. Of them, twenty-five are of the New Democracy. Three of them are SYRIZA's. I will not put the two previous ministers, Mr. Apostleus and Mr. Kokalis, who in any case could not say a word. They are, therefore, twenty-five Members of the New Democracy, three SYRIZA MPs and no MP from any other party. What does that mean? It means that this bill is not available for opposition. And when is a bill not offered for opposition? When it's good. So this list of you to keep it, Minister, because it is a presumption of success of your bill. Now, it is obvious, as we have said, that this bill comes to solve problems and further improve things in our country's agricultural sector. On the occasion of the bill, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Undersecretaries, because, despite the difficult and accumulated problems they have to face and have grown up in the Koroni period, they have responded adequately to the producers' requests in the agricultural sector, especially those of the small producers, which many of them have never seen so far. Furthermore, it is particularly important - we must say this - that the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has guaranteed the new CAP, beyond the package of 72 billion, not to a minimum reduction in the funds for the agricultural sector. So we are able, with the right strategy, to have multiplier positive results for the country's primary sector. And since we are talking about strategy, I would once again thank the ministers for their response to Achaea's requests, as, after numerous meetings, both our own at the Ministry and the ministers of the same in Achaia, they heard the farmers' voices about the need to restructure the Corinthian raisins, a product so important for the region, which is exported to over 90% and gives critical income to thousands of families. Such efforts are also made for other products, as are for farmers in our region. I'm coming to the bill now. The regulations introduced improve the legislative framework in order to facilitate the creative forces of the economy and production, from the smaller to the larger, and to achieve the aim we all recognise as the primary: an environment that is entrepreneurship and investment in the agricultural sector as well. In this direction, the ‘Notify Business’ platform is designed and implemented which simplifys licensing procedures for all types of economic activity. In particular, the first four articles of the first Chapter of this Legislation shall simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, intensified and semi-intensive veterinary, veterinary, pet and livestock establishments. It will be achieved mainly through the reduction of bureaucracy and administrative burdens, i.e. by establishing both the supporting documents required for the issue of authorisation for establishment and operation and for the approval and notification procedure. In fact, there is provision for an important innovation, that of a positive response. In other words, if the administration fails to reply within 50 days of the request for authorisation, it will respond positively. The company is also responsible for the accuracy and truth of the required documents, which have been submitted, and it passes on to the individual. In particular, for fish farming, a sector which makes a significant contribution to our country's exports, this draft law complements the vacuum in legislation with the introduction in Article 5 of the crime against the stealing of fish and the tightening up of penalties. With the provisions of Article 6 for the ELGO - 'DIMITRA' organisation, we are giving the opportunity to carry out programme contracts with the Local Government agencies, which has been removed from the SYRIZA Government. The rights and obligations of the research staff of the Agency with the total staff of the research community shall also be realised. In addition, we solve the problem with the judicial decision on the compensation of hundreds of workers in the ELGA. The most important thing, however, is that we regulate its operation so that it is now surplus. Furthermore, the procedure for granting public real estate for strategic investments is simplified. In fact, it is possible to change the use of existing buildings within high productivity land so that owners can use their real estate for other agricultural work and services, which has so far not been possible. The effort to create a pro-invest climate is thus further strengthened. In Article 14, there is also a serious issue, which we in Achaea - to a lesser extent, of course - have encountered and come from the population eruption of feral pigs. They are harming the production and contributing to the transmission of African swine fever. It was therefore necessary to extend their hunting throughout the year or the hunting season. Finally, under Article 18(3), the problem of undeclared - black - work of land workers in our country from third countries is tackled. It is regulated by the banner and thus achieved a dual objective: that is, that is, that the ECA will receive insurance contributions, but that the agricultural producers will also be covered. Moreover, those Greek nationals who wish to work as land workers will not lose their unemployment benefit if they are entitled to it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing our programme. We are defending the interests of the Greek farmer, the farmer, the farmer and the fisherman. With confidence and perseverance, we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u215	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Arahovitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by expressing my grief and condolences to the family of our dear former colleague, Dimitris Rizzos, who we lost yesterday. He was a man, a fighter, a good doctor and a honest man above all. Starting - as everyone has said - today is the day of the restoration of democracy. Democracy was restored to our country after the struggles of the young people of the time, people who were tortured, people killed by the junta, people who had as a vision of life the restoration of democracy in the country and were able to do so. Let us remember, of course, that in order for the restoration of democracy to come, a few days earlier, shortly before the partition of the Republic of Cyprus had taken place. Today, however, it is another day, when Turkey escalates its provocativeness, making Agia Sophia - after the restoration as a museum by the secular state of Kemal - Muslim prayer. Agia Sophia belongs to the world cultural heritage. It is a monument, which, apart from a monument to Christianity, is at the same time a worldwide cultural monument. And that's how we met. But, ladies and gentlemen, to consult today's meeting of this bill, I would like to begin with three points. Label one: Greece you delivered to us was a bankrupt country. Greece, which we handed over to you, was a country with a 37 billion-dollar pillow, low interest rates and regulated debt. Second point: you have exercised power alternating the two old power parties for forty years. We took over the government in very difficult circumstances, in which you led the country and that for just four and a half years. Label third: The pandemic of the coronary that we experienced - and we continue to experience - with restrictions, throughout the world, has created structural changes and old certaintys have now changed. That is to know what happens to everyone and what situation we are in today. And in these circumstances, in which we received the country and worked - we worked with a plan and with real help to entrepreneurship and the rural world - we managed Greek exports to break each record in 2018, closing at 33.4 billion or an increase of 15.7% or, without oil, to 22.1 billion or 10.7, a record, a growth trend that continued most anemic, of course, in 2019 with an increase of 0.8 total in exports or 5% without oil. Let us see, however, the situation a year after New Democracy's responsibility for governance has been taken over: The evaluation of the legislative work can be characterised by a few words as a legacy of colourless, well-defined legislation, sometimes ideological, such as the law on cooperatives and, above all, a piece of legislation without a clear strategy. Unless it is considered, as has been said by some colleagues, that even processing is a strategy, then you have every reason to be satisfied. But society is not satisfied and clearly in these circumstances it is not what it expects. There are positive provisions. We've been talking to the committees too. Our rapporteur has also been mentioned. Clearly, however, there are many negative points within this law, which defines our vote accordingly. But let's see what happened this year of your government legislating in primary and secondary legislation. In the vineyard: the Ministerial Decision of 2009 on the allocation of rights to planting vineyards was repealed, which gave priority to the small and medium-sized vineyard growers who had never been taken before, because they were excluded from the criteria for a new planting licence, while the large producers were awarded a premium. In the recent 'Green Tree' programme: With a very poor budget, with a scandalous deadline of only two days, with half the varieties being outside and others having a huge price difference, you have also created a situation there which seemed to favour certain categories and not all producers. In olive oil: In edible olives and olive oil have been the lowest price since September 2019. Doesn't that bother you? What did you do about it? It is the main income of thousands of producers and also the additional income of even more and in areas such as the Peloponnese, Laconia, Crete, the Aegean islands, which were two main incomes of olive-growing and tourism. Both, at this time, for different reasons, but also for common reasons, are at the lowest level. There is a very serious problem of sustainability. We when the price was still at high levels, at satisfactory levels, but we have had weather phenomena that have prevailed in recent years, we have moved to Europe, we have managed and brought the Hogan letter, which we would use and we would support the olive-growing. You know her. So what did you do? You increased the ELGA premium for edible olive up to 60%. At this time of inactivity and low price, you increased the premium by 60%. There are still areas where the first spray is now beginning or not yet underway. We have lost valuable time to deal with the wood and see how the year will turn out, given that because of the early heat that we had in mid-May, production is still reduced, which creates special conditions for the appearance of the wood. In this, although we discussed this in a timely question, we had no commitment on the part of the Ministry. And animal husbandry - and here I would like to clarify something, because there is a skulk on the price - and sheep and goat farming and poultry farming have suffered a great blow because of the pandemic, not only because of the restrictions on the focus or movement, but also because of the misguided statements made by ministers who said before the Great Easter Week that they may not open up the slaughterhouses. The damage estimated to have been done in the ovine and caprine sector is over 80,000,000 euros and you are talking about 32,000 euros that have not even seen? However, I would like to say to you and to present to you in the Minutes a chart showing the development of milk prices in Europe, which is red, and in Greece. According to this chart, with the figures from the chart, since 2015, when the vertical, the rapid decline in Europe began, the price in Greece has been and has been restrained. This was until 2018. In 2019, when we have a reversal of the trend in Europe, in Greece we continue to have a downward trend. From 2015 to 2019 it is the chart I give you. You'll see. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u217	The substance, however, counts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u218	So the figures are from EUROSTAT. I'm on my way to fishing. Fishermen from the beginning of the year have been asked to pay a capital tax, a raisin, you remember it here, according to the length of the boat. Instead of tax relief, they received engravings depending on the length of the ship. Did you run this tax policy for election? And now you're saying they're going to get in and apply to get - let 800 euros, because, as you know, an important part has not taken it - the extraordinary aid you're planning and yet the criteria have not come out, to know who they can, who they're gonna be beneficiaries and who they're not. In the improvement plans, you were telling us, Minister, that it is a legal issue that you have come and selected, and not even a single euro has yet been disbursed. The Agricultural Entrepreneurship Fund, which was already ready and to your credit you recognised and proceed with it, has not disbursed one more euro. For the Rural Development Programme only two notices from the Ministry have come out in the last year and this with 22.5 billion all and all. The thirty two irrigation projects a colleague spoke about earlier, have committed appropriations and have joined the Rural Development Programme since May 2019. Inside these are Kelefina's work in Laconia Prefecture. Since then, there has been no substantial development. Of course, I am well aware that your regions are visiting your office and requesting speed up procedures. We'd like, if you'd like to be kind enough, to let us know why there's a blockade in these projects. Another issue is the loans of farmers and cooperatives. Over the past period we have been in a constant negotiation, not a legislative solution, I prevent you, but in a negotiation where we were in consultation with the Bank of Greece and the clearer, so that we do not have adverse developments with regard to farmers or cooperatives. We have tabled a question and asked you to come to the Committee on Production and Trade to discuss it and to learn that a number of cooperatives or farmers are coming to see them to speed up their payments, otherwise measures will be taken. You can understand that at an extremely difficult time, such as today, this would be disastrous for farmers. Regarding the references to ELGA in this law, we will discuss in the relevant Committee on Production and Trade in detail and in detail next Tuesday. Here I would like to raise this issue, because I think there is also a spiral there, because two things were done at the same time and correctly, Mr Kegeroglu, if I'm not mistaken, that he left the plaque of EUR 3,700 and became 10,000, and at the same time he left the cap of EUR 70,000 in compensation and was raised. The combination of these two for over 3,700 euros to 10,000 euros and 70,000 and above was positive for the ELGA. If we go to universal confinement of up to 70,000 allowances, that would actually benefit the organization, but don't give us those figures you're talking about. It's not like that. Two words about PVCs, because there was indeed a debate without any change in this piece of legislation that would be voted on in an hour's time. It really doesn't change anything. However, since December 3, 2019, when the change took place, we have noted you and therefore we urge you not to insist on this, that the changes made to your Government were not in favour of farmers, they were against farmers. When the plaque to get the price of the farmer on high productivity land is half megawatt, 500 kilowatts and is allowed in high productivity land one megawatt, for whom do you do it? However, not for farmers. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that there is no coherent agricultural policy and over time, in sectors such as olive-growing, ovine and caprine farming, professional fishing, but also in matters that horizontally govern the sectors of production, such as climate change, the fact is that, until now, you have been responsible for the governance of the country, you have not even developed an initiative to devise such a comprehensive strategy. The result of governance, however, is clearly one. It is the dramatic decline in the incomes of the people of production. And look, it's not a convenient excuse for pandemic. The reduction in agricultural income had begun before it. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, when we are addressing the Greek people and especially the farmers, the farmers and the fishermen, it is important that all of us look with more respect and less arrogance, because the rural world is facing real problems of survival and does not get enough of the hay you serve from the channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Heta, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I've been here since this morning, and I don't understand why we've brought this bill. I really don't understand. I don't understand what it's offering, where it can help and what it can change. You were able to bring two or three amendments, so many bills we are voting on these days, change some arrangements that you change and go to the old beer, and we're done! We've been here since this morning, and I really don't understand what the reason is. What I want to say, because I don't want to demolish it in any way. With great respect we are here for many hours, simply or will make a decision, Minister, to make radical changes and make this verb of the agricultural sector, or we will take whatever rot has been left in the last forty-five years, which breaks down the structure of the primary sector, and we will do smacks, two - three corrections, two - three "builts" and we will say that we have done two "blocks" to save something. So we don't save the lot. Or we will all decide together to work together on the largest share of our country, which is primary production, which can bring enormous amounts and GDP growth, and we will all work together or continue this wrong path in a degraded agricultural sector to do, as I said before, sloppy ones. You fix two - three things to say. I really don't think there's any reason to come up with such a bill. There's no point in it. And because you're a reverent man and very experienced, see the essence. That's how we see it. Everything in life is from the point of view that you see it. What does the bill bring? What, then, will change in the life of the farmer, the fisherman from tomorrow? What will change significantly to upgrade our country, bring us revenues or anything else? Let him solve two or three operating problems that you could have, I told you again, with two amendments to bring them in and go by saying. I'm leaving the bill now because I don't have time. I am also extremely disturbed by hypocrisy. I am pleased that, following the position of the President of the Greek Solution, Members' references to the day of today have been followed. I am not saying to delete national anniversaries, Minister, or black anniversaries or memory days, but there is no life for this country to mention black days, white days: 'It is a day of importance', 'It is a black anniversary day'. It can't be, because we're all responsible for what we're living for. We were told by the Government spokesman, your Undersecretary, a moment ago, has really described this drama that we are living in Agia Sophia, which is and hurts our soul. But we do not want a description of you, Minister. You're not reporters or journalists. You're running the country. You must prevent these events. For these things it took eighty-six years, during which incapable Greek governments could deal with such issues, they did nothing to prevent the second desolation of the city. Because what we are living on is a natural course of things, which we saw in our national affairs, both in the subject of Agia Sophia and in all, Minister. Today, then, in Agia Sophia we are not only experiencing an act of desecration against Christianity, but it is a expression of hatred - I shall say it - towards the fellowman and culture. So, from just commenting here, we should at some point see what we are not doing right, what you have not done right for so many years. As I said for the previous years, I also heard Mr Kegeroglu earlier say: 'We had a permit in 2009. In 2009 there were very large debts.’ Yes, empty cashiers, empty drawers. But he didn't tell us how the drawers were emptyed. They're the only ones allowed? Didn't you run this country? So these parties here - mostly the two - have no responsibility? Well, to return to the issue of St. Wisdom, I want to tell you, Minister, that the Turks will find it in front of them. You should know that. Because all Erdogan is capable of doing right now is stealing monuments of above civilizations. And it didn't happen that the saying came out - if you want - that the Turks have no history, but a criminal record. What they do today is really a disgrace. If they think with beer and curtains they'll be able to cover up our Holy Mary, looking from there up there, they're very laughed. And all these responsibilities that are accumulated, Minister, which are yours, your party, your government, and we arrive here, they have to do with the Aegean, what we are living for. For some time now, the President has told you before - you have said so well - you have people and voices loudly within your party and your Government who are talking about co-existence. Watch what's going to happen. Because for the Greek Solution, Ministers, there is no Greek pebble at the negotiating table, let alone our mineral wealth. That is why we must be very careful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I still have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u221	You had five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u222	Six minutes, Mr. President. You're cultivating with this whole confrontation of a climate of David and Goliath, that we're the kids, and we have a boulder in front of us, Goliath, which overthrows us. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Greek people know it and we call upon the entire political system to be united with the Greek people's union - because Greeks and Greeks are united - and to tell them that our Armed Forces can, if necessary, hit Turkey, which will not be able to stand on their feet. Because we're overreacting everywhere. In both arms and pilots, in everything. We've got the best pilots in the world, and they've got some Pakistani whacks, parrots. You know that. We don't compare. But we don't have to get there. But in order not to get there, we must be careful and commanded properly, too properly. I'm closing, so I don't have to worry about the President. It was an amazing position of the President of the Greek Solution yesterday, after his meeting with the Prime Minister of the country. It was a sign of masculinity - if you want - at this time not to prefer to exploit anything politically or micro-politically and to speak of national homogeneity and of an unscrupulous national front. At the moment we are living, there is a need for honesty. So, at last, put aside the secret agendas, the predetermined German and American films - and you understand what I'm saying - and propose these critical hours for the first time, but in essence, the national interest. Because that is the only way we can deal with the difficult situation facing us. Unfortunately, I don't have any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u223	Thank you. Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis from the New Democracy has the floor. The parliamentary representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, has asked for the floor after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this is an emotional day. On the one hand, it is a day of celebration for Greek democracy, because today is the anniversary of the restoration of democracy in the country, and that makes us happy, because we already live from the establishment of a Greek state the longest democracy, forty-six consecutive years. Bad lies, though, no one rejoices, for it really is a day of sorrow. A day of grief not only for Hellenism and Orthodoxy, but for Christians all over the planet. The transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque and prayer over there saddening us now marks Erdogan's absolute turn to Islam. It destroys the secular character of a worldwide monument, offends the religious sentiment of billions of Christians and all that to satisfy their internal political needs. But we are all aware that history punishes those who dare to put their hands in the radius of its wheel to serve their personal interests. I do not want to go any further on this issue, but you should know that the Greek Government is ready and will do its utmost to do its duty. I'm coming to today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully - and I address my fellow SYRIZA Members - to the recommendations. I did not understand: First of all, it is a bill which, like all the bills of the Ministry of Rural Development, is characterised by something important to me. It is characterized by common sense and it works out situations of everyday life that afflict and afflict our fellow farmers years. Another such bill is the one with today's twenty-one articles. But I have not understood this so far and say it clearly: do you agree or disagree with any of these articles? What exactly do you disagree? I have also heard from Ellassona Opposition earlier, by the previous parliamentary representative, that it is a simple process and could not have come in the form of a bill. Good, good, theoretical. Does he agree or disagree? He didn't tell us. Will he vote for or will he vote against? That's the point. I hear a general criticism from SYRIZA "the provisions are fragmented" and says "there is no clear strategy", "there is no development perspective, but it simply manages administrative issues, in the context of a communication virtual reality". These are the general arguments I hear. Good. I would like to ask you in particular: where do you disagree? The provisions on the simplification of procedures for the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, veterinary laboratories, veterinary clinics, pet farming and livestock establishments, do you incorporate them? Will you vote for them or will you vote against them? And why are you across the street? The establishment of a limit of fifty days for the administrative response to the licence request, otherwise the silent consent, a fixed request from the business community, whether you agree with it or not? And don't hurry to tell me that this isn't the way to carry out tests at the plant. It's just that business is being released from the hostage of the bureaucratic machine. The requirements will always be checked. Another example: The introduction of the crime of stealing and killing is a legislative gap that is currently covered by this bill. It is something that afflicted an important export sector of the Greek economy, with thefts and disasters that were left unpunished. Do you think they should remain unpunished? Do you agree or disagree? Does the Ministry not have the possibility of withdrawing agricultural property allocated to a holding after 20 years of age, do you find it contrary? Just say it clearly. The provision for the possibility of using buildings and installations which were legally built on high-quality land for the installation of agricultural products, because - let us say - you will not vote on it? Explain it. The incorporation of the ELGO's audit staff - "DIMITRA" into the reporting obligors, as well as the assimilation of the rights and obligations of the research staff of the Agency with those of the total staff of the research community, where is it bothering you exactly? I would like to say here, Minister, that it is realism, as always responds to the needs of the agricultural sector, both the institutionalisation of the ELGO's capacity to carry out programme contracts with the LAGs - which you, fellow SYRIZA Members, have taken this away - and the restoration of the distortion that you have caused again by abolishing the ceiling of EUR 70,000 per beneficiary for the compensation from ELGA, a distortion that did not take into account the organisation's data and imposed it within three years to EUR 4 million. And here I am taking this opportunity, Minister, and coming from a prefecture with particular characteristics in the primary sector, I would like to ask you to move forward as soon as possible and to amend the ELGA Plant Production Insurance Regulation, in order to include new insured causes, to calculate the new risks to climate change and to make the ELGA ally and our farmers' lover and not another obstacle to the difficult day-to-day life of the Greek farmer in the near future. We must do this to producers, Minister. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you about the provision concerning the management of the problem of feral pigs by releasing their hunting throughout the year and the introduction of game handling sites. Why does that get to you? It is a huge problem for rural areas, I tell you personally. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A bit of your tolerance, Mr President. It concerns - since last year I have asked a question about the Messinia - huge problems and at last this provision will alleviate the problem and allow the critical issue of African swine fever to be addressed. I would like to stress here, Minister, that there is a major problem with the local forest offices in order to be coordinated and that they do not let go easily and because I have heard a criticism of forest maps and land maps, perhaps you should also see as a ministry but also as a government in general - and I tell you from my experience as a engineer I have dealt with - that if forests return to the Ministry of Rural Development, there can be better coordination and a lot of daily problems solved. Maybe you should see this issue. Imagine that next month there will be a great deal of hardship with the forest maps and the OPEKEPE computer record that is not incorporated, and perhaps, if it were the forests at the Ministry of Rural Development, all this could be better, faster, easier, more coordinated. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not dwell on the criticism you are making any longer. I understand your irritation, I understand that the reality of the successful administration of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis makes you unbelievably angry and so you're trying to set up a virtual reality. You are annoyed at the fact that citizens know and recognize the efforts of this government. It irritates you that the lie is over, that your shameless attempts to control the joints of power, to check the political and economic life of the place for your friends. It irritates you that everything is now covered and driven through dramatic revelations where, in justice, you so much tried to manipulate for your own purposes. I tell you that we will continue to feed you into legality. Calm down! Don't get upset!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u226	Perhaps you should see whether you should make a constructive opposition, as a minimum of apologies for all that you have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis from Mera25 for twelve minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, like all of us, we know in this Chamber today that we are celebrating on the forty-sixth anniversary of the restoration of democracy in Greece, we believe in Mera25 that we have a sacred obligation to never forget how this republic has returned to our country. He returned with the grand, the touching and unequivocal uprising of the Polytechnic, the young people, the new Greeks at the Polytechnic School, but also - and this should not be forgotten - he returned as a result of the Cyprus tragedy, a tragedy which they brought to the place of nationalistic choices of a hotely but Greek regime, which wide opens his door to the occupation of northern Cyprus. Since then, neighbouring Turkey has gradually emerged, gradually, into a regional first-sized force, especially after Egypt's weakening, the dismantling of Syria, Iraq and Libya, the failure - let me say, the catastrophic, falsified failure - of our European Union at some point to form foreign policy at last and, of course, also because of the folding of the United States of America which left the Middle East about its fate, namely Russia, Turkey and the non-existent European Union. On the contrary, what did our country, Greece, this decade when Turkey won points and became an increasingly powerful player in the region? What did he do? He didn't do anything at all! He said 'yes' to everything, 'yes' to everything, 'yes' to all for eleven years. And what finally happened? It was finally converted into a sad debt-sharing, this debt-sharing that we all know in here, but we do not know we do. Now the argument - operetta - let me say - of the Memorandum Governments that they will encroach on Turkey on its coast, encircling it with mineral drilling and platforms in the framework of the agreement - listen to whom - with Netanyahu - civilian killer, killer of children, fascist - with Trump - also fascist, racist, sexist and whatever else one can imagine - with Macron, a nice faminer gentleman who has been posing as the European politician in recent years and - to whom others, with which multinationals? - 'EXXON', 'MOBIL', 'TOTAL' and others and others. So this unscrupulous effort by Greece was supposed to pressure Turkey, the neighbouring country, rather than end up in fiasco. Instead of shielding Greece and creating the most despicable gains, it finally ended up with both SYRIZA and the New Democracy - because this attitude is common, we do not fool ourselves - to isolate Athens and make Mr Erdogan even more dominant. Ladies and gentlemen, at 10:30 this morning the Secretary of Mera25 was informed by our Prime Minister of Greek-Turkish developments. Mr Varoufakis, in reply to the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, our assessment of the European Union - especially Berlin, but also Paris, Mr McCrone, I told you earlier - want to be dragged - we mean the Prime Minister of Greece and, therefore, why do we represent all of us - in a dialogue with Turkey on their own agenda and with an agenda that they will interact with - with whom? - with Mr. Erdogan. With this reason we now call from this Step - but also from any other step we find, from whatever stone we find, from any point of Greece or Athens or any other point of view we find - immediately now the government to formulate real - at last! - national'red' lines, but we must be truly ready, ladies and gentlemen, to defend them, whatever the cost, even if we must all die. And with "all of us" I mean us, our relatives, children, dogs and kittens. If we are not ready for this sacrifice, we have no chance in the long term to survive in this neighbourhood we are. So whatever the cost, because without such reliable red lines, which we have never set up to date, we will not survive. Whether it is a negotiation with the Troika or a negotiation with Ankara, the dialogue ends, as we know from history, with one conspiracy after another. We also call on the Government to convene an immediate regional conference with, on the contrary, all - and I stress this - the Eastern Mediterranean countries finally setting the EEZ limits of the countries of the region in the context of whom? - International law. Only in this way do we appreciate the fact that the tensions between Greece and Turkey will be lifted, that the role of the seekers will be restricted and that therapeutic dialogue between Ankara and Athens will be opened. Finally, Mera25, ladies and gentlemen, in the false dilemma, in the there is no dilemma, "war or collapsing", either answers. In no case of war, under no circumstances - unless, of course, they come to take our country into consideration. There is no need for any exploitation of the Aegean. Instead, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea, a sea of peace, a sea of cleanness, a sea that belongs, as the old saying said, to fish and the inhabitants of the surrounding countries, a sea, therefore, of peace, cooperation and common green prosperity and not oil-coloured prosperity, which is not a prosperity but a disaster. We are now going to the second theme of the day, on the issue of the truth about the EUR 70.72 billion of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, which our country will take from the Recovery Fund. I would inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Parliament, that the net money that Greece will receive from Brussels for three years - and not for one year - for 2021, 2022 and 2023 amount to a total of 12.12 billion. It is neither 72 billion nor 32 billion nor even 19 billion. The total amount is 12.12 billion for three years! If you do the division, you will see that it's about 4 billion a year! It seems that some in this Chamber believe - at least the government - that what we lost in the eleven years of the memoranda and because of the coronary that it regains - I wish to be disproved, but it seems to regain, if not now, in the winter - and the deficits of 25 billion a year, which we will lose this year, will be covered by 4 billion a year. So the net money that this country is going to receive is that. Our country will receive EUR 22.4 billion gross. In particular, 19 billion from the Recovery Fund, 6.65 billion in 2021 and 6.65 in 2022 and another EUR 5.7 billion in 2023, plus some EUR 2 billion from a small increase in the NRP and the CAP, i.e. funds for the Common Agricultural Policy. From now on, the EUR 22.4 billion - I say this to the Greek people, because those who do in here who do not know it, know it - will have to fatally remove the new debt which is being incurred by the European Commission, which - in quotes, I say this - forget to mention the media of mass propaganda, the means of parasitic oligarchs - of friends of the government. How much is this debt, too? Greece informs you, although you know, that it undertakes to repay 1.37% of the 750 billion that the Commission will borrow from the markets - you know which markets - on behalf of our Union. Do you know how much is that 1.37% of these 750 billion? It's 10.3 billion! In conclusion, therefore, the country has to receive 12.12 billion, 22.4 billion minus 10.3 billion, which is our participation in lending. These 12.12 billion - to see some fatal combinations that fate and fate bring to you - do not remind you of anything? They really don't remind you of anything? I was immediately reminded of the 12 billion guarantees of the Greek State that you will pay to the predators, the hedge funds, i.e., in the next few days or weeks, because they will, of course, break down the profits you have promised them from the red loans, which are very badly, murderous in our opinion of the country, you have sold them. So, at Mera25 we have an idea for you: why don't you take these 12,4 billion euros, which are the only ones we will finally get for the next three years, and instead of throwing them into the economy, to hoteliers who won't open, to taxis who have never worked, to restaurants who will never open, to waiters who have been lost, to my colleagues in the broad sense - I mean all the artists and all the workers, to hoteliers, toys in the arts, who have not taken any help since 27 February - instead of even giving them a cent, to give them directly, in the aftermath of the week, to the predatory funds so that you can finally fulfill this contract, your ‘friends’ will be satisfied and cease to torture the banks and our banking system with our red loans? It's a proposition, think about it! As a percentage of our Gross National Product these amounts are more than 2%. And with this, the government should close budget deficits of more than 10% of our gross national product. As this is not possible - and it is not very simple mathematically, because these amounts constitute only 2% and we need to close a 10% hole, so it is not possible - stop mocking, the fifth memorandum is a given one! That is why Mera25 invites the Greek people to stand in unity and struggle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I will not go far, Mr President. And now I come to the third theme, to the fire in Matty. I guess you heard. Besides, "Kathimerini" made sure to tell us all how bad SYRIZA was, how murderously Mrs. Durou was, how terrible everything was in the country for a very short period of time, four and a half years ago, because as long as PASOK and the New Democracy ruled, everything was working clock and also immediately thereafter, four and a year ago, everything was working clock again. By the way, I inform you that no uncontrolled fire existed yesterday in the country, none of them exist today, no settlement was in danger and no man was killed. This is not the case, because everything I said did not happen, which is something that you also know well. It seems, therefore, that Kathimerini had a purpose to do all this. It was intended to exaggerate SYRIZA. To clarify something from this Step, we're not saying that SYRIZA had no responsibilities. He managed power for four and a half years and was due in four and a half years, in three and a half when Matti became Matti, to have rebuilt public services to enable them to offer their constitutional obligations to the Greek people. He didn't, and we blame him directly. In fact, it was treated to a certain extent with you. This is SYRIZA's great sin. He went, one would say, to a certain extent like the New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So now, "Kathimerina" made sure to burn SYRIZA's exterior at the fire by saying all that he made public. I imagine that all these are intercepting products of our State Intelligence Service, which is also immoral and illegal to some extent, I mean having them and distributing them, I mean the band "Kathemerini" that we know to whom it belongs. Well, he's got it all together. So the amazing conclusion was that the great chief of fire that he appointed - who else? - Tsipras, SYRIZA, in any case, Mr. Matthaopoulos says all these horrible things, which show how awfully SYRIZA ruled, in controversy, I imagine, how wonderfully ruled you before and after you. So I'm telling you that "KATHMERINA" made a mistake. Because if one reads the Minutes carefully and carefully sees what Mr Matthaopoulos says, threatening with his life directly Mr. Leochos, who is simply trying to do his constitutional obligation, his job, to make a finding, he will see exactly what he says. So, as he says the first thing, that he "built the documents, because we'll tear you apart" - which one can deliver to SYRIZA, and he really shouldn't say it - and if he says "do not know the prosecutor" - I read to an importer - "what he has asked" - he knows what the prosecutor has asked - "Look who they have and who they don't have, and who the rest they have. It's okay, calmly, you don't need panic, like you were the other day, you'll be today. Smile, handsome, get your tail out of here, or they'll tie you up. As it is now, it is better to be in the fire than in this case that you have undertaken...". He's threatening him, threatening him, threatening him. And we reach what it exposes you. The poor "KATHMERINI" did not want it. She exposes you and I apologise for her. So he says: "Cut off the right thing, cancel it, give it, push it off you. You're late. Three things: Fire extinguisher: How the fire began. According to geography, you're going to say such things, that's where he ended up, that's what he said. You're sitting now and you're going to mess with the office?" "The other guy tells you he'll open up to you." And it continues: "Would you mess with the Durus? She tells you she'll open up your hats. You're gonna put them here...? Once we see who we blame, what are we gonna do? We will put three lawyers, as we did in 2000...'. Like we did in 2000? In 2000, it wasn't SYRIZA! “... on Gurbatsi. You are charged with five lawyers, simple things.’ That's what SYRIZA's gentleman says. It says "as we did..." because, you know, our officers have been serving many years. So he served both in PASOK and in New Democracy. And that is what I am ending, Mr President. So he says, right after that: "So I'm just telling you, you have time, sit down and what you have to do, get yourself out of here. First to save yourself, because I told you in Corinth..." Corinth? Oops! In 2007? Oops! Then Mr. Costas Karamanlis must have ruled. Strange things! And keep going! "As I told you, in Corinth...". And I finish with what he says: “Keep there, find any of your Headquarters or any of your friends, five harlots, five words, five of them, and give them. Prosecutors? Some may take the pie and you will take "p...". That's the game. In Greece in 2007 at the Tower they ate and the money they had collected and the people shared for the compensation...”. They ate the money! In 2007, SYRIZA, neither was Varoufakis. And I'm not defending SYRIZA. They were left in the first month and had to unleash this misery, so that there would be no such dreadful dialogue. They're in charge! However, it cannot be that "KATHEMERIN" on your behalf resigns them when you yourself, when the officer himself, this "mother" that SYRIZA brought to the political life of the country, this man - and I say it in quotes for man, do not think that he is a monster, justice will decide - says what we have always done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u230	I shall conclude, Mr President. So when this officer says to him, "Don't you understand, man? You'll do what we've always done. You'll make the duck and you won't be involved in political faces. Why? Because the military crises and political persons will come to you, they will retire you or send you to Lemnos." Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u231	Thank you. Mr Themistoklis Himaras from New Democracy has the floor now. Mr. Bukokouros, Mr. Pascalides, Mrs. Arabatzi, Mr. Andrianos, Mrs. Skondra, Mr. Stylidas, will be followed and the Minister will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a difficult historical time when the world community is being shaken by unprecedented threats, Greece is practically proving that it can stand on its feet. It faces with vigour, wisdom, discipline, programming and efficiency the current challenges, leaving behind the pathogens of Postmulsion. There is an example of imitation throughout the world. Constantine Karamanlis said: "There are no magical solutions to the problems. The secret of success is the struggle." Inspired by our great political leader under the shadow of today's undocumented Turkish provocativeness, which insults International Law, Peace and Culture, all of us Greeks must continue united and committed to defending human rights, political stability and our national sovereignty. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the primary sector is one of the key priorities of the New Democracy Government. That is what we prove to be a great deal with any relevant bill. Our strategy is clear. With every bill, we solve issues and improve the landscape. We are dealing with issues that our producers have. The prediction of lower insurance contributions and their decoupling from income, the reduction of income tax for our farmers and, of course, the strengthening of the reduced taxation of cooperative schemes, the exclusion of agricultural parcels from the ENPI, the provision of a new more stringent framework for dealing with illegal Greekisations and special arrangements for the employment of third-country nationals as land workers are only some of the policies we are implementing to strengthen our farmers. The bill we are discussing today attempts to remove bureaucratic obstacles and build a pro-investment environment. It simplifys and modernises the licensing regime for agricultural economic activities, reduces bureaucracy and clearly defines the necessary supporting documents for the establishment and operation of authorisations. The innovative logic of Greece's development investment bill, through which the public administration will have to respond within a period of time to applications for investment permits, is now being applied in the rural area. Within 50 days of the submission of the application, the authorities must respond to the licence applications and, of course, if the application is to be granted without reply, it shall be considered to be a tacit approval of the request. In other words, if the public authority fails to respond in 50 days, the applicant for the authorisation considers that he has responded positively, is responsible for the fact that what he says is true and accurate and that is how he proceeds to implementation. Of course, when the check comes, if any irregularities occur, it will obviously lead to withdrawal of authorisations. Let me dwell quickly on the huge problem of farmers' farming disasters from feral pigs. The bill provides the possibility of hunting feral pigs throughout the hunting year or the hunting season for imperative reasons in the public interest, protection of animal health, agricultural production and economics. The bill recognizes that the targeted hunting of wild boars is now necessary. It acknowledges that there is a huge increase in their population, resulting in damage to crops. It recognises, of course, their contribution to the transmission of African swine fever. It introduces a regulation providing for the creation of conditions for handling feral pigs in order to facilitate their sanitaryly correct handling. Of course, I too will ask, Minister, that I know that many colleagues in the committee have put it - to see if insurance for wild animals, such as feral pigs, can be put on a new basis. I know that this is extremely difficult, but I have to tell you clearly that the problem is huge throughout Fontaine. In Domokos, in MacArkomi, in Amphiklia - your favorite - and in Lokrida, damages are huge especially in grain crops, fruit and vegetables and legumes. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the crucial point in the primary sector is to take the next step, move from the family farm model to the one of the rural business, the company that dares, takes risks and takes initiatives, turns into efficient crops, and forms part of cooperative schemes. It is the crucial step, the step that will ensure the lowest cost of production, the better promotion of products and, of course, the profitability and ultimately the sustainability of our farmers. The state should be a charity in this effort, removing all obstacles. The government has been applying it faithfully since the beginning. Rural entrepreneurship is and must be the future, and if combating bureaucracy is the state's first and dominant concern, if reducing tax and insurance contributions is a prerequisite for strengthening investment on earth, reducing production costs through infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen. The bet on the use of European funds that our country has secured during the next programming period, but also the Recovery Fund for the next four years, is big and critical. I can refer to the fact that in the last four and a half years, unfortunately, only thirty-two projects have grown up and joined. Only thirty-two works! To tell you about my experience in the previous period, where I saw the difficulties of self-government in growing slowly. That's exactly where the government has to go and help. We must strengthen, Minister, the effort to prepare studies on the implementation of infrastructure projects in rural areas. We all know that these projects are not an election-win project. We know they're politicians that win for the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u233	Thank you. Mr. Bukouros has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts today cannot ignore the day of the restoration of Greek democracy. It coincides with that date and with the signing of the Treaty of Lausanne which, regardless of its content, seemed durable and largely pacified. But the thoughts of all of us today also flies to Agia Sophia, where a modern barbarity of desecration of a monument of global heritage is evolving. But I believe that we all agree, Mr President, that no barbarity of insulting and desecrating monuments of this size and of such historical importance can eradicate what has been indelibly recorded in the global historical memory over time. This element, the cultural element, the religious element is not desecrated by any barbarism. Whatever neo-Sultans and Turks worship and pray in Agia Sophia, Agia Sophia does not take a turmoil because of the splendour of majesty, which was tested over the centuries. Of course, it gives us sorrow, anger, and we all hope to awaken the consciences of the civilised world, because the political Islam and its dangerous Soviet reform puts peace at risk not only in the wider region. Political Islam, with the help of terrorist groups yesterday, with the dangerous review today and the totalitarian attack tomorrow, threatens the civilised world and the worthy system it serves. It is at least the duty of Europeans to wake up from lethargy, a lethargy, which is a major cause of the spread of all the problems to which I have already referred, and many of my colleagues today. So no matter what they pray in St. Wisdom, the Holy Wisdom does not swear. Today's bill, if I may, Mr President. I have also heard the parliamentary representative, my dear colleague, who said that there is no agricultural policy. What they have not done in the past four and a half years requires to be done in just one year. Unfortunately, however, for you, my dear fellow Member, the country's agri-food world and your fishermen have recorded you as the government that has reduced their income, increased their taxation and bound their land to the forest maps. These are the main points of your policy. I have heard you present some tables on the progress of milk prices in the European Union over the last five years in terms of prices in Greece. Of course, the statistics have a value, we have to look at them, we have to look at them, but we do not have to read them as we wished. The statistics and producer prices for the past five years show that Greek dairy producers and, in particular, sheep and goat farmers, but also cow farmers, have lost annually from producer prices of more than EUR 100 million. What are we talking about here today? Mr Vorides is fighting and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development is to be approved by the European Union of 32 or 35 or 40 million for emergency aid and we have lost every year only 100 million of producer prices. As to whether they should be compensated for the effects of COVID, this is what we do throughout the economy. You said about fishermen, for example. You know that the criteria have also been made aware of who will benefit from aid, as you know it is the first time fishermen have received aid in recent decades. You are talking about fishermen, but you have never made sure to strengthen them in the four and a half years when you were government. The strengthening of the flowers has been approved, the strengthening of the ovine and caprine farmers. We have explained to you many times that this aid needs the approval of the European Union, it is necessary to create for each producer sector a mechanism that will benefit from the approval of the European Union. This is time-consuming. You know the total de minimis that can be given at three years is 140 million. The Minister told you that he has 150 million and 200 million aids. But these cannot be given by a Minister's decision. That's clean. You have financed the Minister for Rural Development and you know that in such cases they must be approved by the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we see that this bill is not part of it. Yeah, because our party is doing a housework. He's trying to remove the obstacles to get the production machine ahead. Your party specializes in the big words, which are usually empty content, heavy bills that have no effect in practice. Two more minutes, Mr President, I will only make use of three points. Twelve minutes, don't I? I hadn't spoken, Mr. President. You have cut us off, and you have not even consulted. So in two minutes I shall conclude and refer to only three points of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, in particular the Officerial Response. What's this bill doing? It comes to shield this bill from a strategic sector of primary production that is fish farming. It is a strategic sector. We are first on export, so Turkey is after us to get past us in this sector. I think - if I remember the numbers well, Mrs Arabatzi - a hundred twenty thousand tonnes is our own production, a hundred nineteen, eighteen is Turkey's production. And instead of saying 'bravo, there is a leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development here to strengthen a strategic sector', because the strategic industries and their support throughout the economy and in the primary sector are the ones that will draw the rest of the industry, and instead of saying 'there is a need for these interventions, they are shielding this industry', we say that we have involved fishermen with agricultural production. It's not like that. A second point is the provision which goes through Article 7. I've heard a lot of colleagues say about photovoltaics, saying that 1% is too much, not getting into photovoltaics. There's no new provision coming in with the bill. These have been passed by previous bills of competence of the Ministry of the Environment. Here the Minister explained to you yesterday that the entire article is coming and reiterates, so that the Member can understand what the new provision is and what is added and what is not to say 'under this law this provision is added' without knowing what this law says. It makes it clear and presents it complete. The bill we're voting on today has nothing to do with photovoltaics. These are dignified. However, it is much more important to make use of the possibility of changing the use of legitimately existing buildings in high productivity land for processing agricultural products, which is also a sector of primary sector complementing the value chain. We must once stop selling our fine, very competitive, quality agricultural products in bulk. And the Ministry of Rural Development is coming today and says: 'We are making this easier'. The shells you see in the Greek countryside can be exploited, changed, no matter what they produced in the past, and they become processing units. Is that bad? It's not bad. It's very good! And the third point, for which I really would like to congratulate and finish my position, is the provisions relating to the hunting of feral pigs. It has evolved into a scourge for the Greek countryside. No longer only are crops at risk, people at risk, attacks being carried out, traffic accidents caused, victims recorded, and very well you do so by creating management sites and increasing carpalisation and hunting season. It's something the Greek countryside wants. You limit the possibility of spreading African swine fever that will be devastating. I would also like to say an idea at this point to see it in the framework of a ministerial decision or another piece of legislation: all this material of wild boar hunting must find a way forward in the trade chain, of course, while respecting all health and tax provisions and then a small part of it can be directed to social services, exploited for social reasons, because this material, this material of wild boar hunting, is going, above all, to black trade. If it enters the meat trade chain, I have said and said again and I stress, with all the health and tax provisions, another object may also be created, which will also have a social footprint and will also leave some profits to these people, whom we are calling today on to limit this phenomenon. I conclude with the conclusion that this is not a bill with a heavy headline. It is a bill with very useful provisions concerning all sectors of production and the primary sector, and it needs the household to make the long-term reset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Ioannis Pascalides from New Democracy has the floor now and is followed by the Deputy Minister, Mr Arabatzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the context of the ongoing effort made by the current government for the integrated development and sustainable competitiveness of rural areas, the Ministry of Rural Development today brings a bill aimed at modernising agricultural legislation. In particular in this draft law, which consists of 20 comprehensive articles, a number of provisions simplifying the licensing procedure, namely those concerning the establishment and operation of aquaculture units, veterinary activities, breeding and marketing of pets, farms and livestock establishments are included. In particular, as regards the maritime aquaculture authorisation procedure, the authorisation shall be granted at the time of establishment, i.e. prior to the construction of a plant, without any longer requiring a separate authorisation stage after the construction of the plant. The examination of the application for approval will be considered within an exclusive period of fifty days. This provision is particularly important since Greece is taking the lead in the field of aquaculture. The investments that have been made in recent years by large companies, the cooperation and takeovers that have been achieved create great growth prospects and give the industry new potential. Indeed, as far as my constituency is concerned, Kavala is the most important prefecture in eastern Macedonia and Thrace in the development of shellfish with great potential for further expansion. In the wider region of the Gulf of Kavala there are twelve total mussel farming units which cultivate the Mediterranean mussel and we hope that this new regulation will pave the way for the creation of new plants. The same beneficial provision relates to the establishment of veterinary and veterinary laboratories and of a pet animals. Note that if the administration has not replied to the request of the person concerned within 50 days, it will be considered to be silent acceptance. Article 4 contains arrangements concerning livestock units and in particular two separate steps are adopted: stage of establishment and operation. In particular, the establishment of livestock facilities irrespective of capacity is subject to an authorisation procedure. The operation of livestock establishments, which under environmental legislation are classified in subcategories A1 and A2, is subject to an authorisation procedure, with medium and small capacity being subject to a notification procedure. Noteworthy is the provision in Article 5, according to which penalties for the committing of animal larceny and life-threatening offences which now include the theft and killing of fish and other aquatic organisms from farms or similar crops. In addition, the second chapter of the Law regulates the relationship between ELGO - "DIMITRA" with the self-government 1 and 2 degrees, while another provision provides for the possibility of using legally existing buildings for agri-food purposes in land classified as high productivity. The draft also sets the ceiling for allowances from the Greek Agricultural Insurance Agency to beneficiaries of EUR 70,000 by clarifying that in particular for crops grown in two periods during the same year, spring and autumn, the ceiling per compensation beneficiary is set to twice the threshold of EUR 70,000. In addition, the ELGA Staff Regulations shall be harmonised with the provisions of the Staff Code and the mandatory labelling of origin in milk shall be established. Equally important is the provision that it extends up to 31/12-2020 instead of 30-6-2020 the period during which an employer who wishes to recruit a third-country national who is exempted from the visa requirement to apply for employment by way of derogation from the existing legislation in order to transfer him to the seasonal rural economy. The extension granted was deemed necessary in order to meet the increased needs of farmers from foreign workers who have shown an increased interest in their employment in crops. In closing my speech, I should like to express my warmest congratulations to Minister Voridis and his colleagues, because he is always a patron to the problems of the rural world. I am well aware that it gives a daily struggle to highlight the Greek rural economy in order to respond to the difficult and modern competitive environment that has been formed on the world market. Today is a black day for Christianity and Hellenism. Our soul is a monument to Agia Sophia of our Orthodoxy, which belongs to all mankind. Erdogan's tiny decision to turn it into a mosque insults its universal character, affecting not only Turkey's relations with Greece but also its relationship with the European Union and UNESCO and the global community as a whole. Let us hope - and we call on all the Christian and civilized world to this end - that the restoration of Agia Sophia as a monument to global cultural heritage, by browsing together a great 'no' in its tooling by an arrogant and supersoft Erdogan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. The Foreign Minister, Mr Fotini Arabaji, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill in plenary takes place on a day on which history has left its deep footprint, as today forty-six years ago our precious democracy is restored, founded on solid foundations and became the most fertile democratic period in our country's modern history with its achievements, dynamics and conquests. But today is a sad day. The day of the fierce transformation of the most important temple of our Orthodoxity, a worldwide cultural and religious ecumenical monument, the sacred temple of the Holy One of God Sofia, in mosque. But, ladies and gentlemen, Orthodoxy is shining and its shine cannot dazzle it and cover it up. Such hours many words go past. Hellenism, the government, is sure to manage this challenge in the most effective way, disseminating to the troubled neighbour that the Greeks united, we will support every inch of our national sovereignty. And since the day is historic, all of us remember that history is useful not because one reads the past, but because one reads the future. And today we are discussing this bill of the dense legislative initiative of our Minister with a view to the future. A bill which is, of course, being discussed in the extremely good perspective of the unprecedented and incoherent until a few months ago, a package of 72 billion, which ensured with the initiation of its initiative, its firm positions and strategic moves by the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis. A double support package for strengthening the world of work, the exit from the coronary recession and the re-establishment of the country's productive model where we have strategic advantages and, of course, by investing, respectively, in the inherent weaknesses of our economic model, in this case, the agricultural sector, the small and fragmented clergy, the lack of reasoning. Today's bill is, of course, discussed under the positive final outcome of the resources for Greek agriculture. Because it is very important and we have to say this again that, despite the reduction in the multiannual financial framework, we have actually achieved two important things: on the one hand, the increase in the resources that Greece will receive from the Cohesion Fund, on the other hand, we have to keep the resources for Greek farmers, in fact, almost inconsistent. And I say 'nearly unscathed', because, while the scenarios of the major reductions, as you know, eventually, there was a reduction of 0.67%, and so we went from 19.460 billion to 19.330 billion, essentially - about 20 billion was in the period 2014-2020, I recall - but with an increase of 373 million in the second pillar, the development pillar of the Rural Development Programme. And speaking of a development pillar, let us say that in the context of this pro-developmental, pro-investment initiative, which remains fully committed to the government, it is also based on this bill, which primarily aims to simplify economic activity. Before, however, I refer to the bill and talk about this government's pro-investment strategy, I would like to show here, at the National Representation, these papers. These papers, ladies and gentlemen, are the signature of the three integrated water-growing regions of Kefalonia, Oxia and Halkidiki. Because Mr. Panas was talking about Halkidiki. In a record time, ladies and gentlemen, after decades we have managed and finished, the two Ministries, Rural Development and Food, led by our Minister, Mr Vorides and the Environment, under the leadership of Mr Hatzidakis. It is therefore our government, which decades later - I stress - has made it possible to secure the necessary vital space for a sector - a champion in the export dimension, a champion in volume of production and a turnover in the European Union. I would like to thank both the services - and our Ministry of the Environment - of the Minister, Mr Economou, since in a very short time, with an open spirit, the flexibility demanded and, of course, a lot of work, these presidential decrees are finally ready for the Council of State when in the days of SYRIZA - ANEL just one presidential decree - and this is a problematic one - has been signed. And not only that, ladies and gentlemen, but I am staying in the specific presidential decrees, because these are essentially the driver, the boulevard, to speed up the evaluation of all the other integrated aquaculture development areas waiting, which is one of the keys to attracting foreign investment for an activity, as I said, especially exporting, an activity that foreign investors, world-wide, are coming and investing in Greece. And not only that, but we also reached out the specifications for the contractor's assessment of marine spatial planning, which since 2016 the previous leadership left on ponds. Simplification, therefore, of the objective of attracting investment. So in this bill, we establish perceptions. As the Greek state is called upon to pass from the age of fax to the digital age, so it has to pass from the age of "apply and see" in the era of tight binding timetables. The State, in addition to the binding response to the demands of the governors, is called upon to trust, ladies and gentlemen, the governor, who, of course, has to demonstrate respect for this confidence of the State and that he respects the lawfulness, after having enjoyed the implied approval of his economic activity in a number of areas such as aquaculture, livestock facilities, livestock and pet farming for the first time. From the regime, therefore, we are moving towards the adoption of the French model of silent approvals, aiming precisely at this consolidation of the two-way state-state trust with the citizen, the commander, in the construction of a different business and administrative culture. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set a central objective since the beginning of its term of office. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I will also need your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u239	You have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u240	Thank you. It has set a central objective since the beginning of its term: to make Greece one of the most entrepreneurial and investment-friendly countries of the world. I would remind you that we have received Greece from SYRIZA in the seventeenth place in the World Bank 'Doing Business' classification, twenty places under Rwanda and in the last place in terms of GDP investment, 11% compared with 20.4% of the European Union average. So, without losing one day, we have gone through bold reforms and changes at all levels, we have released strategic investments, we have reduced taxation and insurance, we have brought a lot of favourable regulations for the rural world - and there is still a long way to go - we have digitized a number of services. We do so in the Ministry of Rural Development by electronic veterinary protocol, with the unification of the databases, which will be another tool against the scourge of Hellenism. We are simplifying authorisation procedures, speeding up justice. Because I am very sympathetic to the criticism of counter-population, which is left out of opposition ammunition, that we are supposedly not strategic at the Ministry of Rural Development, to say that, apart from success in aquaculture, another example of the pro-investment policy introduced by this bill is in Article 13. What are we doing there, ladies and gentlemen? We allow strategic investments, i.e. investments that exceed EUR 3 million, to be granted without auction real estate of our Ministry with a security test. What do you mean by that? With the confirmation of the Ministry of Development that this investment is a strategy and that, of course, there is a corresponding price. Such is the spirit of Article 7, where buildings on parcels identified as high productivity zones can also be changed and made for the processing of the agricultural sector, and of course, it is strategically important, when processing is one of the pillars of the country's new development model, according to the conclusion of the Pissaridis Committee. Of course, the objective for the fight against Greekism is again achieved by this bill, such as the inclusion in Article 6(4) of the obligation to submit all kinds of permits at any time and the staff of the ELGO - 'DIMITRA'. Because it fortifies, as you can see, an effective and holistic control system that, as we have said to all tons, the Minister has said so since the previous bill was adopted, will be the new normality in the country. The bill also restores injustices. For example, Article 9 for setting the threshold for the payment of indemnity payments by the ELGA. What are we doing here? We are restoring an injustice, which is naturally established by your own government, which has enabled producers to be compensated without ceilings - I recall that 70,000 to 140,000 were on our own day and we are reinstated - and to spat on the substance, whether they have suffered or have not been damaged. So, if they were damaged, they would pay a thousand to get compensation without a ceiling. Where did this unique SYRIZA patent arrive? Receive the ELGA with 5,300,000 and collect the 1,890,000. Wonderful originality! We are therefore turning the regulation into a fair form and this money which we are actually saving, which is fair to the producers who are insured and really in need. The bill, of course, also corrects half the jobs, because it was half the jobs that you left and we brought Article 12 for compulsory labelling of milk. In addition to adding the milk term to origin, we have also assessed the measures that you should take. Because you have had thirty months since 2017, ladies and gentlemen of the Major Representation. You did not, of course, make that assessment. We have done so in d.t time so that we can demand from the committee that these measures be extended by 2021. Here, of course, speaking of labelling and labelling, it opens and touches, and another big debate that we have opened in the Ministry for the Greek brand, what we legislated in 2014, if you remember well, but on your days it has really remained "licensed shirt", without any added value, without promotional measures. That is why, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are working on promoting, recognizing and adding value for the Greek brand. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the State Secretary is ringing again and again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my speech I shall make a reference to Article 14 on the regulation of the hunting of feral pigs. I would like to say that this legislative initiative has a successful precedent: two ministerial decisions which result from the good and very good cooperation of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Environment, with which joint ministerial decisions have been allowed unlimited carp and the hunting of feral pigs for the exemplary - and I support it, exemplary - treatment of African swine fever in our country. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, when the capital of Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, has been denounced, our country has managed in this exemplary way African swine fever, taking all possible preventive measures and finally, as evidenced, only a foodborne incident. I close my speech by transferring to the National Representation the words of the President of the Association of the Greek Food Industry, whom we met a few days ago in our Ministry. I travel abroad, he said, and I feel proud of the "bravo, you did it" I hear from everyone. Greece has said to us that it has not only the advantage of the well-known Mediterranean food but also of security and credibility. Our aim, said the President of BSE, is to keep the new consumers abroad that we won in the pandemic and to win new ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u241	Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u242	I shall conclude, Mr President. The above words, ladies and gentlemen, also unite our Ministry's strategy in the overall picture of the country's new development model. The emergence of our country worldwide as safe and reliable is a huge investment deposit. The record of Greek food industry exports 21% in the fourth quarter of 2020 - when all European Union countries saw a degradation, including Italy with 27% - the fact that the Prime Minister set the target of increasing exports to GDP from 38% to 48%, the fact that he set the target of increasing the industry to GDP from 9.5% to 12% and to 15% in a decade, the fact that the Greek food industry is 1/4 of industry, the fact that it is a historic opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, of linking the agricultural industry to increasing agricultural production in the country's GDP, the fact that all of this makes the processing of the necessary development link, creates the 'growth storey', the new development history for Greek agriculture in our country. So we have the plan, we have the vision, we have the financial instruments, we have the appetite and the endless perseverance and we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u243	Mr Ioannis Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's day when Greece celebrates the restoration of democracy is a very unpleasant day for Hellenism, Orthodoxy, for the west, for Western civilisation and for the entire civilized world, regardless of religious faith, because today there was another desecration on the part of Turkey, a historic desecration by the transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque after eighty-six years. Turkey, which, with its escalating provocation throughout the Eastern Mediterranean, sends a worldwide message of unspeakable anarchy and aggression, is constantly ignoring international law. It is now clear throughout the international community that Turkey is a dangerous 'hardness', which is clearly following a review policy and is indifferent to international legality and stability. It is actively seeking conflict and, of course, considers that international law is what it wants and what it serves. This truth must be underlined at every opportunity by our partners and allies, as Mr Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy do. As we also have to stress in all directions our unity, our readiness and our willingness to respond to these challenges effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which considerably simplifys the regulatory framework for the establishment and operation of economic activities of primary development, particularly as regards aquaculture, livestock facilities, veterinary activities, farming and the marketing of pet animals. At an extremely difficult time for the rural world and the livestock world with the majority of farmers fighting for a daily survival, the government also proves in this bill that it disguises the cry of agony of farmers and farmers and goes on to the necessary modernisation of the legal framework. Besides, the declared priority objective of the current New Democracy government is to reform the state in every aspect and appearance, so that it can develop into a forerunner of every creative effort for growth, prosperity and advancement. The results of this strategy are already visible and noticeable, as with specific initiatives concerning each ministry and every field of public action, bureaucratic claws are eliminated. Citizens and professionals are relieved of the need to devote valuable working hours to their dealings with the state. The uncertainty is addressed radically and effectively by the introduction of transparent, fair, universal rules for all. In particular, for the primary sector this change of attitude and practice is of enormous importance. Farmers and farmers often see delays in the payment of subsidies and allowances. They are afflicted by demonic procedures. They often suffer the unjust and cruel consequences of uncertainty in their relations with the state. And all this in an environment where production costs are often increasing, while producer prices are falling, for example, in olive oil, where the effects of climate change, phytonoses, zoonoses often uncover crops and livestock facilities. Nevertheless, even in this extremely hostile environment, Greek farmers and farmers have demonstrated daily with their creativity and labour, with the quality of products they produce, the great prospects and the comparative advantages of the Greek agricultural sector. And through reforms to simplify procedures such as those which are promoted by the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and the Minister of State, Mr Vorides and the State Secretarys, of course, and his colleagues, with the bill we are debating today - for example, for livestock facilities, veterinary activities and farms - producers are given the opportunity to develop their creative plans more freely, with always respect for the natural environment, public health and the particular needs of local communities. A characteristic of this is the provision for a mandatory period of time for the State to reply to the relevant approval requests. In this way, the burden of the process goes symbolically and essentially from the citizen to the state, which, of course, is called upon to work more quickly and effectively. In particular, I would like to focus on the forecasts that enhance the possibility for local authorities to cooperate with ELGO - 'DIMITRA' - by extending the development tools available to the LAGs to provide new institutional possibilities for partnerships to modernise and develop the agricultural sector, improve production processes, strengthen competitiveness, certification of quality agricultural products and foodstuffs, establish and certify good agricultural practices, and control over the production and marketing chain of milk and meat in the country. It is a step that brings specialist scientists closer to the production process, strengthening the value added for our producers. Ladies and gentlemen, because I have heard that the government has done nothing in the ten to twelve months that is in the country's governance in this area, I would like to remind you that you were negotiating the new CAP in 2018 with 18,200,000, 000, and we finally managed the agricultural budget to be 19,501,000,000 euros. Let me remind you of the PPC issue and the reconnection due to the financial impossibility of paying the current and irrigation of farmers, that with 15% advance payments and adjustments, when you had 30% and 40% advances. Let me remind you of the abolition of the trade fee of EUR 650 to farmers who would be invited to pay from the next step. I would remind the farmers, for example, that the compensation made by the government for 4 euros per animal to producers and sellers of popular markets who could not sell their products, because of the koruna, except for the prefecture of production and, of course, the flower producers. Of course, these procedures need the approval of the European Commission and we hope that it will come soon so that the beneficiaries get this valuable support for their economic survival. In any case, the government goes ahead, supports farmers, supports their products of high value, because it is our strategic choice to support the primary sector. With initiatives such as those recorded in this bill, and with the wider change of attitude that will reduce bureaucratic costs and suffering, it will finally make the state a real bourgeoisie to the producer, we can ensure for the primary production of our country the future that it deserves. And, of course, with the implementation of the major development projects, such as irrigation, as I have heard the Deputy Minister, and I believe we will hear the Minister shortly, Argolida has the huge problem of delays in the work of the Anavalus. We believe, Minister, because you know that very much, you will soon proceed with the integration procedures and projects both in the Argolic Field and in the extension to Ermionida. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u245	Thank you. Let's go now with Mrs. Silver Skondra, please for six minutes. Immediately afterwards, we will finish with Mr Stelios and will take the rapporteurs for a second, if they so wish. And the Minister will be closed soon. Here, Mrs. Skondra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the historic day, indeed, today's and strange day, I would say from the alteration of emotions and memories that are alive. We celebrate on one hand forty-six years in which democracy is restored to our homeland by our national ruler, Constantine Karamanlis, and our responsibility and debt are to ensure that we deliver it to the next generations. At the same time, the Hellenism of the earth feels bitter and indignant about the false demonstration of power by the Turkish President in Agia Sophia. But whatever Agia Sophia does remains unloved and consecrated, symbol of Christianity and a worldwide radiant cultural monument that belongs to all of us and belongs to all of mankind. And they may be causing us today, but for them it is the insult that is kneeling into the Orthodox Greek temple. Today, too, our soul hurts for another reason, for the two years since the tragedy in Matti and those who have been wronged by tragic death and their relatives who lament vow justice. The bill now, ladies and gentlemen. In just one year the government of Mr.Mitsotakis brought to this Chamber, discussed, voted and made state laws about a hundred bills. We must all admit that this is a very rich legislative work. All these bills, independent of the subject, sector and ministry, have a common strategic point. Amongst other provisions obey the design of an appropriate environment, so that any small or large business, production or commercial activity can develop and find fertile soil in order to bear fruit and yield. So they cure pathogens of public administration. They regulate and simplify legal and administrative frameworks. They're bearing bureaucratic obstacles. They clarify, settle and cover gaps in chronic suffering. This policy is followed by the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, Mr Voridis and his worthy State Secretarys. Both in today's bill and in previous bills, which they tabled, gives room for the people of production who want to invest and create. It simplifies procedures. It reduces administrative burdens. And it defines precisely what is necessary for the establishment and operation of livestock establishments, aquaculture units, pets and veterinary clinics. Fair and fair, Minister, the regulation of the definition of fifty days from the submission of an application by the person concerned in order for the competent authorities to reply shall otherwise be considered to be a tacit approval of the request. It is not the public itself - rather than being a charitable person and carrying out the purpose to which he owes his existence, that is to serve the citizen - to stand in the way of and hold back a long-term activity, depriving the person concerned and the local community. I will also focus on simplifying procedures for livestock establishments both by the number of farmers present in Karditsa and by my service relationship with them, I am well aware of the problem they face and how great a blocking factor they are in their professional activity and expansion. This will facilitate and strengthen them so that they are maintained in their profession and improved in their development. It is also important to reinstate the maximum level of allowances from the ELGA. It will contribute to the financial consolidation of the organisation and to the proper payment time of the affected producers, and of course to the payment of all the amount as it was until 2015, because after the SYRIZA - ANEL government paid both instalments and with delay. In fact, Mr Minister, it is the opportunity given to ELGO - "DIMITRA" to conclude contracts with OTAs. Using local government, it will support and promote the primary sector for the benefit of the producers themselves and local rural economies. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] The extension of sterile capacity and the population control of feral pigs, however strange it may sound to some, is very important, especially for some areas including Cardica. Consider that the crowd is such that they destroy entire plantations and circulate near inhabited areas, even causing accidents, apart from the risk of spreading African plague. Correct and realistic by emitting an investment spirit, Minister, is the provision of the concession for the use of unexploded public real estate for investment under development law. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the number and speed of the bills you enter shows your vertical decision to take out the primary sector and make it profitable again to existing farmers and attractive to young people. Apart from other things, a basic condition and you know it, it is a reduction in the cost of production. The dominant cost parameter is irrigation. I believe that that is where we need to lay weight and there are ways to ensure that there is enough water and enough in quantity and cheap at price, throwing vertically and the total cost. I will tell you, for example, that irrigation costs farmers up to 70 euros a acre, while other farmers are watering 7 euros a acre. At the same time, there is water to satisfy all needs, but another is spilled into the sea, such as Acheloos, and another is lost on the road to the fields, because there are no appropriate irrigation works. I know that the projects are not your responsibility, Minister, but they are the production and the cost of cultivation, and I would like this step forward to ask you to make a dynamic contribution to the completion of Acheloos' works and to save the farmers of Thessaly Kampos and the environment, which is a permanent position of the New Democracy and a sincere decision by Mr Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy as a people's party along the way has recorded its special relationship with the rural world, the world of production and the fighting of the guardians of tradition and countryside, the locusts that in many parts of the country guard Thermopylae. As a liberal party, it recognises the primary sector as a stable pillar of the economy, because it can produce wealth, provide self-sufficiency in the country, balance our trade balance, because it can be based on a new industrialisation in the country, based on secondary and tertiary processing. It can absorb billions of euros from European funds. It can create thousands of jobs. It has a lot of scope for development, and our government is taking the changes that will give the impetus it needs to play a leading role in the reconstruction of the country again. As for you, colleagues of SYRIZA, I would tell you to vote on today's bills and still on the agricultural world. It would be a practical apologies for what you have done to them during the period you have attempted, in your Stalinist model, to build the collectives and the farmers - swabs again in their fields, then by overtaxing, increasing insurance contributions, increasing VAT on supplies, advanceing tax, abolishing VAT return on oil, and others that you had in the scarves and fortunately did not have to catch up. You think the farmers forgot about it. No, they remember them! And you know what they're saying? Once on the left, never on the left again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u247	Thank you. We're finishing up with Mr. Stylion. The rapporteurs will then take the floor for two minutes and the Minister will close, who will have a brief speech. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, forty-six years after the restoration of democracy in these difficult times our country is going through, it turns out once again that the choices of our national ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis, his faith in the institutions of urban democracy and our participation in the United Europe as an equal member are a safe port for our country when it is in difficult and uncontrolled situations. We continue in its footsteps with truth, seriousness and a sense of patriotic responsibility. Now, in relation to the bill, the primary sector is a sector of high added value for our country. It is the wealth-generating sector, it exports rural areas and border regions. It gives dimension and existence to our place. It is the area that can and must play its leading role in the new productive model of our country. Its aid policies can no longer only be subsidised. They must be developmental, treat the farmer as a modern businessman, as a technocrat, to create an environment that is friendly to production and innovation, to give him incentives and opportunities to stand competitive on world markets, to motivate him to cooperate, to synergies, so that he has better access to finance, to markets, to new environments. The policy of our Government and the Ministry responsible in this direction has been moving since the first day of taking up its duties, in the direction of producing wealth for their farmers, farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen, in producing wealth for the country. The primary sector is the one that strengthens the extroversion of our country and gives strength to its exports. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is under the above logic. It aims at simplifying the authorisations of economic activities, removing bureaucratic obstacles and strengthening investment in the primary sector. It is an effort that comes as a follow-up to the law on agricultural cooperatives, which was passed by the House following a proposal from the government. It is an effort that comes as a follow-up to the law that we recently voted on the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector, with substantial regulations relating to the stricterisation of fines for products of designation of origin and our farmers already see the price of milk growing and greater demand. It is the continuation of a policy where farmers' insurance contributions are at the lowest scale, at 120 euros a month, while under the SYRIZA law they would exceed EUR 200 a month. It is a continuation of policy, which has less taxation on farmers. It is a follow-up to the policy which we will be voting on next week abolishing the trade fee for producers, farmers and farmers. It is therefore a policy that gives more degrees of freedom to the productive sector in our country. With the draft law we are discussing we are reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens, clearly setting out the supporting documents required for the issue of business approvals. The main thing is that there is a fixed period of fifty days from the date of the application within which the authorities are required to reply. If the period is extended without a reply, it shall be considered as silent approval of the request. And all this through a new platform entitled 'Notify business'. It does not have to be contacted and the citizen has to trade and conciliation with the services. This regulation therefore reflects the satisfaction of a consistent demand from the business community for the benefit of the economy, employment, the creation of more jobs. And this is without any discount on the control and supervision of the activity. Furthermore, this draft law reintroduces the arrangement as an upper limit of compensation from the ELGA to the beneficiaries. The amount could not exceed EUR 70,000 per beneficiary, and the compensation for two-year crops was to be doubled in the same year. This arrangement comes to restore the damage caused by SYRIZA's policy to the body of 3 million in the period 2016-2018. And to remind the government's recent decision, for the first time since 2011, to grant ELGA with state money of EUR 35 million that gives sustainability and is standing. It is an important, brave decision that shows in practice that our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, supports me in the primary sector of our country. In two words, I refer to the following arrangements in the bill: Firstly, the introduction of the crime of theft and of the homicide. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Secondly, the possibility of hunting feral pigs and semi-wild pigs throughout the hunting year - I shall end, Mr President, in a minute - or the hunting season. It is an important legislative intervention, which also contributes to limiting African swine fever in our country and there have been very important and substantial decisions from the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Thirdly, to resolve the pending situation regarding the status of legally existing buildings located in high productivity land. And there, Minister, there could be an initiative from you in the future, to set up a scientific, technocratic committee, to identify land throughout the country, so that we know which land is of high productivity, which is medium and what is lower. To make this landscape clear, too, within the many things you still have to do. It will be a great failure to mention the origin of milk, which also contributes to the stimulation, strengthening of Greek dairy products - an important decision by the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is in the right direction. It reflects the philosophy and culture of the government, which is no other than the opening up of the economy, the creation of opportunities for many and the increase of the individual and national wealth of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. Mrs. Bakada is here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u250	He won't speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Villard, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just talk about correcting some mistakes. First, the Undersecretary told you that the photovoltaics in Germany are at 18%. Wrong is 8.2%. I have a graph here. I'll testify for the Minutes. The graph is from June 10, 2020, so you understand that it is quite recent. On page 10 of the study, which contains the graph and you can read it, writes that photovoltaics are allowed from 2010 only on fertile land and along motorways. I mean, exactly the opposite of what your State Secretary said. Something's wrong. On page 17, you will read that photovoltaics are not generally subsidised, and on page 20 that photovoltaics increase household electricity costs. I will now present a picture of what photovoltaics are like in Germany to see that it has absolutely nothing to do with Greece. It's over the rural land. Downside is the rural land. It doesn't bother her at all. Under no circumstances is it the way it is in Greece. Secondly, you said there were no photovoltaics in the bill. It's wrong. It's in Article 7. I read it: It states clearly “In parcels characterized by address... ...any activity other than agricultural holding, agricultural activity, within the meaning of the Act, shall be prohibited. ... and the production of electricity from RES stations.’ That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u253	It's not a new arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u254	You were told the same by the Member of the Larisa. Your MEP confirmed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u255	It's an existing arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u256	Okay, but it's written in the bill. That is exactly what we have seen, and that is exactly what we have been talking about. Then the rapporteur said that photovoltaics are for farmers only. It's not for farmers. I will submit a newspaper article saying clearly that Mr Marinakis bought three thousand acres in Larissa for the construction of photovoltaics in fields. Mr Vlacho also suggested that in a central direction of the primary sector we meant state intervention. It's also wrong. It has nothing to do with it. We have mentioned to the committee the example of Spain, which determines the quantities of crop it can sell. Finally, we and the JRC have also asked you to withdraw paragraph 5 of Article 6, because we consider it unfair, that is to say, for farmers to return the sums. She's unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u257	Thank you. Mrs Manolakou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u258	I shall refer a little to the Turkish Government's finest. It's challenging, it's unacceptable to turn Agia Sophia, this global cultural heritage monument, into a mosque. Turkey's challenge is escalating - step by step. It exacerbates religious and nationalist competitions, which are exploited by the powerful of the earth to divide peoples. But the reactions of both the United States and the European Union are challenging and sweet. Are these allies? Are these the protectors of International Law? Or are these powers tolerated - if they do not encourage - Turkish provocation? We say if he didn't have their backs, Erdogan wouldn't go ahead. But, above all, I have taken the floor to say about the joint communication issued by the Communist Party of Greece and the Communist Party of Turkey. We are concerned that both parties are concerned about the latest dangerous developments in relations between the two states, and we condemn actions that are moving towards deepening and warfare. We note in this joint announcement that the Turkish leadership's decision to move to the mosque of Agia Sophia is moving towards the development of religious issues for the fanaticism and division of the peoples, and it is also an attack on the secular forces in Turkey. Both our parties support the stay of the Holy Sophia public museum, as one of the best preserved historical monuments of mankind's global cultural heritage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, of course, we believe that the civil conflict in Libya has been caused by NATO's imperialist intervention and is supported by foreign forces. They seek to create transnational agreements for maritime zones, violate international sea law, to exploit these as advantages in the Greek-Turkish dispute over the continental continental shelf and the AEZ, and further drugize the peace and security of the peoples. We are putting this joint communication on the Minutes as a whole in order to find out. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the communication referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I shall conclude with the Ministerial Amendment. We have also said in the initial speech that the regulation for farmers and other owners who have inherited paternal property in Kastelli, Crete, and of course we are voting on it. However, the other Members who have spoken were right to say that it is a completely different matter for fishing, for old and old days. There's a thought. We want you to keep an eye on him. It is a reflection of a small portion of the purse seine owners who gain additional advantages. It makes us express with the white at this point. We are asking for a different way, namely that there should be two amendments, because they are two different topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Pana, are you going to be seconded?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u260	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u261	Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, since this morning, when I listen to all my colleagues in the New Democracy, I must say that I am convinced. This government is a first-time government on the right. For the first time, you appear in the political scene. You have no responsibility for what has been done in the past decades in the country. You have no responsibility for bankruptcy, no responsibility for the reduction of the incomes, hopes and lives of Greek citizens. Fortunately you were in existence and suddenly appeared in the political scene, because for decades SYRIZA was destroying Greece, for decades SYRIZA had ruled and brought all these sufferings that led us to the economic crisis of the last decade. Look at you: As much as you present things as you like, the Greek people have a crisis. And one of the reasons why the country was driven into the economic crisis was your own governments that had not had a strategic objective and had destabilised the country's productive base, and, unfortunately, I fear, you are coming back to old bad recipes today. So, as long as it is time to redefined your policy, especially at times of great crisis with this pandemic. Your bill - because I don't have time - soon to tell you it's unrelenting, it's lifeless and it doesn't have any perspective. And unfortunately, you don't understand that. And, indeed, you come here to tell us what a good policy you are doing, and you confirm that with the words of the industrialists, the industrial association. Do you hear that, the words of the Greek peasants, do you hear them? So I would like to convey a word to you that I had in my constituency last week, where a farmer who waits day and day for what he is responsible for from EUR 32 million said to me: "You have taken the lamb away from us, they will also take the handkerchief." So, then, the Greek farmers feel. Now for the amendment I will say a few words. For Kastelli, it's positive. But, Minister, you will force us to vote 'at present' because as far as the other part is concerned, it favours unfair competition against the purse of the night. The purse-seines of the day have the possibility of catching as purse-seine by changing the net. They don't come out of the production process. So, here we do not understand what obvious reason this amendment leads to! And indeed, it seems that the current regime is very favoured by the management of fish stocks, which we consider by intensification and the change you are going to make will have a negative effect, so if you do not change it, we will vote'residents'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u263	You're welcome. Mr. Sedetakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr President. To agree with the SYRIZA rapporteur and I, to say exactly that we are relying on the Greek people's crisis. It is the Greek people's crisis that shaped this majority that we currently have in Parliament, the Greek people's crisis has placed Mr Voridis in the cabinets. We are relying on it, we are trying to convince ourselves and we are judged at the end of the four-year period. So we agree, we agree on our policy too. Now for the bill the debate in the committees has not shown any significant differences. After all, many of the provisions are the continuation of 'we did not have time', as many provisions have not been met by SYRIZA. We continue, we add to the law of SYRIZA some articles and in general, as we have said in the committees, the bills of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, and indeed with Mr Vorides, there is an attempt to make a fruitful dialogue. There are disagreements on some issues, but there are agreements, and here we are to exchange arguments. And that is the right dialogue to take place in committees and in Parliament. In particular, I have taken the floor to talk about the amendment concerning my place, Kastelli, Heraklion and Kastelli in particular. To thank the leadership of the Ministry and of the Ministry of Infrastructure as well, because it is an issue that has arisen, for which no one is responsible, by a misrepresentation. We have come to settle a problem of the past and I am glad that you all agree to proceed with the vote on this amendment. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u266	If you know that, it's unanimous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u267	Here, Minister, you have the floor. I'm sure you will soon express everything you want, you have this ability. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank all my colleagues for their broad participation in the debate. I shall refer a little to that. Allow me, as you have all done, to refer very briefly to something that makes us angry, upsets us, is angering us. The transformation of Agia Sophia into a mosque I want us all to know that she doesn't do anything wrong with Agia Sophia. Agia Sophia has been a mosque for hundreds of years and then there was a museum, while we all know that it is the most important church in the world. It did not lose anything from its value, Agia Sophia, lost nothing of this use against its original construction and its original destination. All these centuries it remained a symbol of Christianity, a symbol of the universality of Orthodoxy. Therefore, in this disgusting act, Erdogan does not defeat Hagia Sophia, Turkey is declining, the Turks are losing, their nation is insulting and not the Holy Sophia. For us, Agia Sophia was and remains our collective memory and identity. He is our emperor who is being fought, is the "Red Apples", is the "Marble King", are all these memories of the Byzantine Empire, the Orthodox Empire, our identity, our torso. There remains something for today, however, that, with regard to a state that is treated with such barbarism, the international community and Greece must respond. The government is acting, in order to achieve a coordinated response, but it is clear, that those who thereby rape the global historical monuments associated - I say again - with such strong memories and such a strong identity must not remain unpunished, must not remain without sanctions. I come to our debate. I thank you, I think it is an extremely creative debate. Let me open a word with you for several questions were raised. I heard this debate again that we don't have a plan and the bill doesn't have a plan, that we don't have a strategy and all that. Okay, good, I'm listening. Now I imagine you do. To say we don't have one, you have one. And I imagine you've had four and a half years to unfold it. So you come and say that I do not have a plan and I do not have a strategy for the primary sector. In one year, we've brought three bills, four and a half years you've brought three bills. One of your bills was for agricultural cooperatives, we discussed and looked at its results. Your other bill was grazing land, namely grazing management plans. You have done absolutely nothing about it. And your third bill was on the issue of regulation by registering, with the invoice declaration - this regulation - which was not implemented. I'm sorry, is that you had a strategy and you're criticising me that I don't have a strategy? Where was this magical law, which would solve all the issues of the primary sector? Where was this unique and excellent legislation? Why didn't you untie us to bow down and be speechless? Because I have done what I have done this year, and I do not have a strategy, is as follows: I have drawn up the plan for interbranch organisations and the interbranch organisations are built up. I changed the law for agricultural cooperatives in a direction you don't like. We have ideological disagreement on that, what do we do? Everyone believes. I also did the criminalization of PDOs and PGI products to deal with the Greekisms, for which I have not seen you have done anything. I have drawn up the framework for the reorganisation of the control mechanism, again with the draft law, we have drawn up the apiculture register, we have put in place specific legislation to deal with African swine fever, and we are the only European country that has dealt with the question of African swine fever so successfully, we have regulated the suspensions of the penal persecution of people who are dragged into a court for corporations in liquidation, we have resolved the issue of land workers and their revocation, we have solved the issue of the construction in mid-term pandemic, we have brought the provision by which we have made unemployment benefits for land workers, we have resolved the issue of pensioners who can go to work in the fields, we have reduced the tax rate, we have reduced the taxation of cooperative schemes, we have reduced the taxation of wine, we have made the refund of the tax on wine, we have reduced the tax on wine. And now, today, we are simplifying the permits, we have resolved the chronological issues that you had in your hands for four and a half years and you have done nothing about the PDOs, and we are regulating the issue of the wild boars that you have looked at. We don't have a strategy! Imagine what we've got! But they have a strategy for those who are inclined to us that we do not have a strategy! And you look at the legislation and it's nonexistent. You haven't done anything for four and a half years! Three drafts of which two were not implemented. The draft law on the management of grazing plans, which is very critical, is being implemented by me today with the management plans. [[Noise in the Chamber]] That's right! What can we do, Mr. Arachovite? You don't have a signature!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u269	You haven't done anything yet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u270	But you have given two legislative deferrals to the implementation of the forecasts for the management plans. And now in one year's time, we are already taking decisions on regional councils to get the notices out and make the programming contracts. So why are you getting into this criticism? I don't understand it. It's an unfortunate criticism. Listen! It is an unfortunate criticism and people understand that it is an unfortunate criticism. People feel it. The rural world, the livestock world, our fishermen understand that this is a bad thing. Leave it 'you don't have a strategy'. The strategy is fine and we have it and we are doing well. Come on, let's talk about these specific issues. Let me tell you what's going on. I know what's wrong with you now and I have a compassion and an understanding. I've got this! Why? So, let me tell you what's wrong with you now. We brought the previous bill, which was passed with two hundred and ninety-two votes in it! It's done! And then they went after their people had a fight with them. He says, "That's how we're gonna make an opposition?" If you go and vote for all the bills, what opposition are we going to do?" So they must now disagree. Now beware of the difficulty: Where to disagree? You can't argue! Why? That's right now, and they'll barely disagree with the license. How are you gonna disagree with the license, which has a start, middle and end, and which makes sense? First of all, because until you get the line 'do the disagreement', you were in 'our own provisions'. Be careful now: they came to committee and said, "But what are you doing? Bring our own provisions.' So now, because we cannot vote again on the bill with two hundred and ninety-two votes, we have to say that we do not like the provisions. But come on, we've said it's ours. So now we don't like our own provisions. So here I say again that this is an opportunistic opposition, it is an opposition to the joke. Come and sit seriously and say what it is that you don't like. So here you say that the issue of licensing is not important. First of all, is it or isn't it important? To get in touch, is it important or isn't it important? Because I'm going to tell you a true story, let's see if it's important. A man who wants to build a processing plant is struggling to be licensed. He's been to the services, and it's impossible for the services to pull out, too. The man starts the phones, and the thing gets to the minister. Imagine now, don't you? Permission went to get it! The man didn't ask for anything. An empty one wants to get, the mechanisms to work! The citizen will reach the Minister, so the Minister can call the DAG officials, if they can get any files from any office here to go there? Is that a function? Look at despair, anxiety, the drama of this man who wants to act professionally and can't get a license! He's made his file, he's made his papers, he's gone and he's testified, and they're not telling him he's missing something, they're not telling him they want something, but they're sitting. They're sitting! A year and a half are sitting the papers! And the other guy is struggling to act professionally. And you're telling me it's not important? Is it not important what the other can go ahead, start his work and then go to check him out? You see it all in theory, because you have nothing to do with what the real world lives for every day. You see them like that, that's to say we just sit here and philosophize if the paper is going to go like this and if the administration is going to be different. And you don't see the agony of people opening a job. So we solve this and do not vote for it. You're staying apart from that and you're telling me that it doesn't matter, this acceleration, what's the main body of the bill, and it's quite analytic? The other thing that I liked very much is what Mrs. Tyloridou said. I have to say that because it's one of my favorites. Now listen to what is leftover's joy these days. Because it became the coroner, there are now state aids. But at too many levels, there is State aid in many sectors of the economy, and there is also an intervention in the level of lending and in the level of State guarantee of loans and the mechanism of direct State aid. So stand up now and the Left says, “Have you seen? The value of the State, thanks to the state, is held by the economy.’ It's a pleasure for the prisoners. They now think that their perception is justified. At this point, I will make two observations of an ideological nature on them. Firstly, what you say is self-evident. The coronary is an emergency. So you're telling us that in fact we don't need all of this and that we only need it in emergencies. So you are supporting an idea of emergency and crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u271	You make a reasonable leap. It was proof of our right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u272	But I will tell you this and there I will fight Mrs Manolakou, because most of them have gone through you. You were supposed to have taught them Marxism - Leninism. You should have explained to them at last that state transfers under capitalist conditions are not a left-wing policy. You should have explained to them that this is always done in conditions of crisis in the economy, precisely to balance the economic system. Yes, but if you haven't taught them that, my alas if I'm teaching Marxism - Lennisism at SYRIZA! That's the time, that's the talk. You should have solved this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u273	Make reasonable leaps!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u274	It's not a left, it's a social democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u275	Yeah, but they've been through you and I'm saying they didn't know well. That's what I'm saying! So that's it. Watch out now! I come to our further debate. First of all, I have some good news, which I must tell you is of interest to my friends here. It was a good argument - I don't know who said it, I don't remember - that says: in the bills that are easy for criticism, the Vice-Presidents usually come in order to make a political fund in order to make use of what is easy for criticism. But we didn't see you today. We didn't see you. We have seen thirty Members of the New Democracy and four SYRIZA MPs. Why didn't you come, since it sucks the bill to degrade it, and go home happy that you won?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u276	They've kidnapped it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u277	We didn't see you do anything! Silence! Extreme tomb silence, by duty and by profession we speak of! So be careful. There are some specific good news I want to share with you. Mrs. Tyloridou, I told you from the committee as if I knew it. I couldn't even be a guess! I'm telling you not to invest in this. Invest in times and, you see, they come backwards. The European Commission's decisions are here. What do we do now? What's going on? When you had invested that nothing was done and did not do and that the asparagus was approved, all 15 million euros were approved for producers of the people's markets, and the sums for ovine and caprine animals were approved!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u278	So fast? Since yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u279	Hey! Did you see a few things, Christo? And I say to them yesterday, "Don't make such an opposition, because you don't know how things are going out"! In other words, they have not learned Marxism - Leninism, but they have not learned to do so in Parliament. I mean, we have a total lack of knowledge here! We need the basics! Investment where you can invest opposition, not what you collapse in twenty-four hours! The State Secretary also told you, which is very important. All three POGIs, combined with simplification for aquaculture, have been signed, forming an extremely favourable landscape for a very dynamic sector. And I heard you say that it is a matter of concern, he says, a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u280	Your bill doesn't concern everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u281	My bill is about their authorisation. Aquaculture is one of the most powerful branches of the Greek economy purely exporting, and must be a strategic direction of our support. It's for us, too. For you... I heard Mr. Apostleu say something about the CAP. Give me two minutes, because I want to tell you the numbers, so we can get this over with and solve them. I don't know what you're talking about again. Where we started with initial 10% reduction scenarios, the European Commission's proposal is currently talking about EUR 19.308.000,000, in fact about a 0.7% reduction. Basically, they are constant prices! Is that not a success of the Greek negotiation, that is to say it ensures stable prices for the common agricultural policy, with an increase in the second investment pillar that is also a critical figure of 4.8%? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like some time, Mr President, because I haven't talked about the bill yet. I now say this: I do not know what analyses Mr Apostolos is doing now. He's making some numbers, he's saying it like that, he's saying it different. The numbers are specific, and we need to talk about them, so we can know what's going on. We are talking about the first pillar 14.916, the second pillar 4,018, together with the 374, which are added as bonus from the negotiation, we go to the second pillar at 4.392 and make us a total of 19.308. Do you want to take note of them so that we don't hear any more numbers and slowly end this matter? I say this because, objectively, our farmers understand that this is a very important success, as it ensured stable resources for them and contains these figures and external convergence. These are with external convergence inside. So, as we have said - and you have handled it and we can understand - two major thorns, two major problems, two major concerns, two major concerns with regard to the CAP, which is the budget and external convergence - I am not saying that they are the only ones, we have others - which could lead to a very large reduction in direct payments and the investment pillar, and that is what remains stable and the investment pillar is increasing. So this will not be hailed as a success by you? So, if now that particular result you brought it here, wouldn't you dance with joy? Would you not come and tell us that this is a good result for farmers? So, at this point too, things are specific. Now, I'm coming to the bill. I think you are completely wrong with the bill saying it has no body. He has a very specific log that's licenses, and he's very important all on his own. Let me respond to just one criticism I have heard, mainly from philosophical - not so much here - of the issue of the simplification of authorisation for breeding. I would like to clarify once again - I have told the committee, but I also say in plenary - that this is not about and affects nothing about the regulations of Law 4061/2012, which regulates the matters of breeding and professional breeders. It doesn't affect! It doesn't change the professional breeder. It doesn't change definitions, it doesn't change conditions, it doesn't change what the amateur breeder does, it doesn't interfere at all. In other words, all the essential content, if you like, for the rearing remains stable what it was. The only thing he does is to simplify an authorisation procedure. I consider objections and reservations to be unfounded. In any case, we cannot prevent an authorisation, because perhaps the argument is that the control mechanism is not a good one. This is an issue of another order, which is not dealt with by the outlawed licence. This is like saying 'I don't want to give permission, because I can't therefore check how the person who gets the permission will work'. But that is not a good argument. Now I'm starting to ask specific questions about the opposition. The provisions to deal with the problem posed by feral pigs, of all the wings, have been admitted to be a major problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u282	That's too big.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u283	Should this not be taken as a provision to deal with so that there is a regulatory framework for hunting covering this issue? That's a reality now. Aren't you going to vote for this provision? The provision in which the game is handled also relates to a central issue, because we have huge issues in the handling of game and, in particular, wild boar, because there is a risk of African swine fever. Should there not be an appropriately organised space where the game is handled? Is that a provision that is not positive? Isn't that right? Shouldn't we get out of here? The arrangement by which we prolong the arrangement we've made for land workers isn't right? Will you vote against it? All farmers want it, our producers want it. Will you vote against it? You are criticising me on the issue of the ELGO and I have seen some requests from the workers' association. Here's something I want to say again and make it clear, because it might not have been understood. A court has been lost by these people. A preliminary ruling was issued, and was correctly paid - as interim payments from the ELGO to the workers and then the appeal was brought before the Court of First Instance, which means that those sums have been wrongly paid. This Decision is communicated to you in October 2018. The administrations of the ELGO are uncovered, because or they must go directly to collect the sum, since they have wrongly made implementation of the decision or have to make provision, which will enable those sums paid to be recovered in a way of leniency, law and, in any case, to facilitate workers. I have heard an argument that says'refer to a private dispute'. This comes from the workers' side. They don't want me to intervene? Can I withdraw the order? Who advises them to say such things? If I withdraw the order, the whole amount should be collected the next day. Is that what they say? And we say to them'make a regulation to which they have two years' extension and to pay this amount in ten years' time'. That's the setting. And now they say they want me to withdraw it? For their sake, I don't do them a favor! We bring the arrangement for the ELGA, where two things have been done with ELGA. We gave 35 million. Since 2011, no one has paid 1 euros. I didn't hear you say good. I want the Arachobite to tell me. I want to be told by Tyloridou. To come here and tell me "bravo, Bravo, Voridis!" That's what I want. I didn't hear you say good. This is done and I want it to be emphasised in the implementation of a legal obligation. The 2011 Act provides that ELGA will be financed with 20% of the insurance contributions received. That's the prediction. Look out, nobody's given it. Here comes our government to give it. Why does he give it? Because the truth is that there is no in the world - study what I say to you - an insurance system in which there is no state involvement of some form. Not everyone has a state body. Some may have purely private insurance systems. Only there is State involvement in the payment of the premium. And we come and give it to balance and achieve a result on the important deficits that ELGA has. And we are also doing a second rationalization intervention. What do you say? There are the beastly indemnities of 200,000. To get a compensation of two hundred grand, he's obviously not a poor farmer. We are now talking about big farmers. They give them 1.5 million and ELGA pays for them 5.5 million a year. And you won't vote for this? Be careful: they, Mr. Arachovite, are a hundred seventy. Of these hundred and seventy, some take them one year, some take them next year. For these hundred and seventy-three, the Left Party will not vote for the rationalisation clause, so that we can start gathering what is being done to ELGA? Be careful, is it not useful to allow the provision, when there is a strategic investment, to give the strategic investor - strategic investment we know what, the ones that have been decided to approve from the committee, only very large investments - a land that the ministry has and does not use? Isn't that right? Or is it not right to regulate that enables property located in high productivity land but have lost their original use - for some reason they have been used - to be used now for processing agricultural products? In short, the man in the place he produces should be able to make a packing room in. Isn't that the setting right? Aren't you going to vote for it? Is it not appropriate to regulate that which prohibits the slaughter of horses? In my amendment to Castelli, as far as I can see, you have all agreed. There is now the issue of nets. You say to me: we do not like the arrangement you make for the purse seine fishing night - I say to you that the regulation is very correct, but let us not go into its details - and we will not vote for the amendment because it has two provisions. What Kegeroglu said with the little sister-in-law, "with and with the bride, we will also take the little sister-in-law." But that is a matter of Parliament. It's not my business. Why is it a matter of Parliament? Because at the end of the day you decide whether you want to vote on an article or an amendment as it stands. But what do they tell us in the context of good legislation? Well, don't bring too many amendments. On the one hand, we do not want to bring many amendments, on the other hand we want them all together, and on the other hand we do not want to vote on them with the article. In any case, do what God glimpses you. We are doing what we have to do here. And I come to finish by saying this: the next time we open discussions, I want you not to throw any chapters and leave. You said things, Mr. Arachovitis. For example, for the ministerial decision on vine planting rights. You liked yours. Good for you. You are not telling me, you know that there is a request on the part of wine growers and wine producers for more rights of 1% on the country's total right. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u284	That's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no. I'll tell you. Where has this restriction been introduced? Let's go to the European Union and ask and say: This 1% is a little bit. We need more to increase our wine production. What does the European Union say to us? But you're not using it. Use 60% of 1%. Why don't you use it? Look at your decisions who left them, which, if they were taken, did not take advantage of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u286	There was no liquidity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u287	Yeah, there wasn't. We're a development ministry, we're not a ministry that makes social policy. In the government, there is a ministry that makes social policy. It's next door. It's Mrs. Michailidou. We're the Ministry of Development. We're a ministry that we want to increase primary production. We're a ministry that we want to increase exports. We are a Ministry that we want to build our agricultural product balance. The choices we make will be developmental. What you do is classic "slash in the fan". Not in the sense of leafing, but in the sense that you're throwing things away, and because he tells you, "How can he get them now? The president will be yelling, because he's already talking thirty-two minutes, I've said something and what's left. You put the tacosy in it, you put the oil, you put the green bite in it. You put everything in it. Every matter has its answer. Everything has an answer. The point is, the producers know the answers. I conclude, Mr President, by: The truth is that what we are doing is dealing with chronological issues which you have inherited for years, unresolved for years, from small to large, from our fellow Members, who are close to the popular social base of the New Democracy, which is the farm, which is our fishermen, who are our farmers. And all these chronological issues one to one methodically we catch and we resolve them. At the same time, we unfold a central development strategy which takes primary production into the next century, in the next phase, into its perspective. And this bill is a bill that goes ahead and completes precisely the resolution of all these major and difficult problems that our producers have. Our producers understand it and I am sure that the majority in this Chamber also understands it and supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle of Articles, and the amendments to the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is hereby concluded: ‘Simplification of the scope of economic activities of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of twenty articles, of an amendment, of an amendment, of an article and of the whole article. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u289	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u290	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u291	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Simplification of the scope of economic activities of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and other provisions’ has been accepted in principle, on the articles and in its entirety by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u293	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-24-S1-commons.u294	With the agreement of the House at 19.49, the meeting for Monday, July 27, 2020, at 11.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Services Unit for Market Control, regulation of economic activity, dealing with illicit trade, fines for the movement and marketing of counterfeit/false products, regulation of issues for industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research, innovation and the Economic Chamber of Greece and other provisions’, and b) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions.
