ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 28-9-2020 delegation, the Minutes of the Siggio Conference of Monday, 28 September 2020 (morning), with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Urgent arrangements to deal with the catastrophic consequences of the Mediterranean Cyclone 'January' process, further measures to address the continuing consequences of the COVID Pandemic -19 and other urgent provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS I have the honour to announce that, after consultation, all the topical questions will be discussed except for two, which are as follows: The first question under number 1043/16-9-2020 of a first-round question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragossis to the Minister of State, on the subject: 'Return of responsibilities now for the new case of government incapacity and the break-up of public money for the useless'masstures' in schools, and the ninth question of the second-round question of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: 'Missional proposals for the creation of closed structures for immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers on landslides'. We move immediately to the second debate under number 1050/21-9-2020 of the first-round question from the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: 'Direct aid for the Municipality of Thessaly affected by 'Janos'. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware of the situation, as has been established, and we participated in a joint meeting with the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Livano, in Farsala. It is true that the Prime Minister of the country did not accept us there, as also the President of the Officerial Representation, contrary to the President of the Change Movement, which Farshala existed on its own map. We, of course, want, Minister, to be on your map, on the map of your own ministry. You know the agony is huge. It is not the time for responsibilities to be attributed, we have said so in a thousand tons. We won't move the finger on anyone, nor will we now ask for the responsibility. Prosecutor of Carditsa, of course, has intervened in this matter, in order to see exactly what is happening, and if there are responsibilities, because, apart from all the others, those in the short and long term, we never forget that we have the loss of four fellow people, we lament four loss of people, and this is the most important thing that we have, unfortunately, suffered from 'Janus', in our own understanding. Minister, the municipalities are breathtaking. The situation and because of COVID you know very well that it has been shaped: central resources, special programme, special financing, infrastructures broken down - you know that very well - road, the same. Extreme aid measures by the Ministry are heard, but they are also seen by the government, but - if I may, Mr Minister - for those who are presenting Jerusalem are well aware that it is not enough for the structures of the municipalities to support them and further to support the inhabitants of regions which have been affected irreparablely. Especially for Farsala, Karditsa and Magnesia, you know very well that we are dealing with poor municipalities that have no resources, unfortunately, and are really waiting for them to see what the special plan of the Ministry of the Interior is for now, today, but also for the next day, because, as you can see, there is no possibility that there will be no next day in settlements and cities covered with mud to the knee. And because that's the situation, you realize that genomes can't pick up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Panagiotis Theodorikos. Minister, good week. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I enter the essence of the question and, in the essence of my answer, - I do not see it as typical, I consider it an absolute human obligation - to express my condolences to the relatives, the families, the persons concerned who have lost their lives in this tragedy because of the very intense natural phenomenon. From the first moment, as you know, my fellow Member, who has unfolded this natural phenomenon, the state has been present at the warning of people, the interventions during the phenomenon and the rescue of hundreds of our fellow people, as well as the battle to deal with the deep wounds opened by theory. You know that within the first 24 hours a government step went there with a mandate from Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Ministry of Interior participated in this by the State Secretary, Mr. Lebanon. There was the first record and the first announcements and the next day from the Ministry of Interior, within twenty-four hours, were made, and decisions were taken immediately - and they were executed - to support the municipalities affected, 37,000 euros, including a sum for the three regions affected. You are also aware that on Monday the Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the head of a new government stadium, involving the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Minister of Rural Development, the Undersecretaries and a number of State Mechanism officials, also took part. We have fallen from above to a very difficult and hard struggle to deal with a situation that is truly unprecedented, because the disaster that has occurred in Thessaly in a number of areas of Thessaly is unprecedented. Therefore, the first measure, concerning the provision of the first support, to pass the first days and the first money to 6,000 euros for the restoration of the buildings, is in progress. The money, however, has been given to local government, the money has been given to the municipalities and it is the responsibility of the municipalities to do whatever it takes to get this money to the citizens quickly. That's the first. Secondly, I have made it clear at the meeting held by the Prime Minister on that day to the social and professional bodies that the Ministry of Interior extends for all the municipalities affected, the invitations to participate in the projects of the "ITIS TRITIS" programme and, exceptionally, the specific municipalities affected, for the projects which have studied and prepared will be approved immediately. You are giving me today - and with this to conclude my first position, Mr President - the opportunity to announce that, for the twenty specific municipalities affected, there will be an extension of the procedure for the declaration of the famous undeclared square measures, which ends in three days, on 30 September. For these municipalities there will be an extension, because we understand that there are households, there are citizens who would have planned to complete this process this three-day period, but as the data in the area is becoming extremely difficult. So we will make it easier for them, in any case, and we expect the region and the self-government to organise an overall programme of intervention that will bring the region back to normality and to the immediate development perspective, which the Ministry of the Interior will support. Finally, the government has taken and announced global measures for the region, which very much facilitate citizens in terms of their tax and insurance obligations, which the Government representative Mr Petsas has reiterated today, and therefore I do not need to mention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u5	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs. Lykoule has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, who can disagree, a petty person only with a sterile opposition, that relief measures are firstly absolutely essential and correctly taken by your own government or - I think - by any government. But there is one difference. The measures you have taken today, Mr Minister, are first-rate measures, as they are called, relief measures. Measures to address the immediate need. Do not sleep the family on the tractor - this is a fact - and go to a house or a tent or the municipality sharing the food with the hundreds of families of Carditsa and the Farsalon. Here, even some facts that I can convey to you, especially those. The concern, however, is that the coordination of the organization's plan you mentioned on your choice is right there, that is to say how it is to be done. You gave these millions, as well as the relief measures, but what we are talking about - and I am tempted to make this comment - if you did not suspend insurance and taxation, would anyone be able to pay you? Till the neck in the mud is, what do we say now? So we can be realistic too. So you did what life itself expected would bring as evolution. No one can pay in such circumstances, where it has been completely destroyed at all levels. There's no life. But we're going down to long-term planning. I, Minister, had no complicity not to participate in the meeting of the government. Mr Lebanese came and I went there despite the fact that I was not invited by anyone, because they were also asked in the House who was called, where, etc. I think I should listen. Everything I need to hear so I can talk. Otherwise, maybe I'm not talking right. I have therefore followed everything that has been said, without seeing anything about the next day. The next day, Minister, is not designed and I tell you quite well and quite frankly. We gave - you say - millions. What millions? To deal with what? The way forward, the first needs to be met, the chaos to be addressed? One look at you will see, but I think you've been transferred and you've seen them myself. The JRC and HRC, the bodies representing the municipalities throughout the country, which should have the planning and programming speech, should not consult with you on your own initiative from the Ministry of Interior, in order to see how the rural reconstruction programme is to be carried out? Is that a simple thing? You know, the day before Palama I walked and there were dead sheep around - around. Beside my feet! Nobody touched them! Freaks full of basements filled with? Horrible! It was a post-apocalyptic picture that we lived on, and I tell you by hand in the heart, because I imagine you've realised that this question was not made to oppose you or the government. I am very interested in if there is the minimum design in someone's mind - I am looking to find out whose mind - and if there is anything left to anyone to think the next day. Minister, I am finishing with this and my political position and the position of the Change Movement is that you have the responsibility - your Ministry - to do just this organisation, just this programming, to call on the partners in consultation and to draw up the action programme for the real reconstruction and reconstruction of the countryside, the economy, society and the city itself. City doesn't exist. Cities don't exist. It is endless mud with some stones that, where and where do they feel that there were houses. After that, then, you understand how central the role of real planning is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Liikali. The Minister has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u8	In this country - I am sorry to say, but this is the reality - the usual phenomenon, my colleague, following such catastrophes is that what we call first relief and not support for people, usually comes after a few months. That's the truth. Because I was born, I grew up, I worked thirty-five years in this country and I was faced with disasters myself, and I think I have common sense and the average mind, I have experienced this. When Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis assigned me the responsibility of this ministry, I thought that at such times I would like to do what is best, not to me people have the opinion I once had for various ministers in such events. Our first burden, on the mandate of the Prime Minister, but also on the work of all of us - ministers, Secretary-General, Secretary-General, and everything - is to support people firstly to meet in elementary terms and to return to basic regularity, because the disaster is unbelievable. There are no words to describe that. But we are there and need to complete this work as quickly and better, in cooperation with the municipalities and the region. And this involves a series of ministries and not only the Interior Ministry, which I insist in twenty-four hours has responded to what usually took many weeks to happen. Let's go to the next day. First of all, in the next day, everyone has to. The government must have a say, the opposition must have a say, and decisions, a plan and a line must be drawn up primarily by self-government, regional and local authorities. They have the responsibility of an overall planning for the region. We have a responsibility to support and coordinate actions that will support this project and at this level, as far as the responsibility for the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, you will see that, with the same heat and interest that we have shown since the first moment of this disaster, we will continue, in order to help people to redevelop their economic activity, rebuild their homes, collect the wounds and rediscover the way they deserve them. And I repeat that all the suggestions and thoughts are welcome in this way. For me there is no government and opposition in these cases, there are people who want to help and there is certainly the government's responsibility to implement what it needs to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u9	Thank you very much for keeping time. Before we continue, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report of Wednesday 30 September 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1072/22-9-2020 was raised by the Member of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of Finance, on "Support measures for Enterprises - Workers, Poros and Galata (Trisenia)". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Direct restoration of extensive damage to the infrastructures of the Municipality of Almyros". 3. The question under number 1071/22-9-2020 by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: 'The objective of child conscientiousness'. 4. Under number 1070/21-9-2020, a topical question by Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, Member of Parliament, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "The establishment of a host of illegal immigrants in Montenegrin (Kara Tepe), Lesvos in terms of poor, environmentally and in terms of security". 5. The question by number 1078/27-9-2020 was raised by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Structurings in the public mental health service system in Eastern Crete during the first year of New Democracy governance. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 1090/28-9-2020 by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Ragossis to the Minister of State, on the subject: "Reimbursement of responsibilities now for the new case of government incompetence and segregation of public money for the useless masks" in schools. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 1077/25-9-2020 by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct reinforcement of the farmers of Thessaly affected by Janus". 3. The Question No 1081/28-9-2020 by the Member of the Ilias of Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Ineffective the Bridge programme for weak borrowers". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 6896/28-5-2020, by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Completion of procedures for the concession of the Eleftherios Venizelos Park (Airma) Agios Dimitrios Attikis, in the Municipality of Agios Dimitrios". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of Change Movement Mr Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on "Programming for the Anti-Greek vaccination of the population". We are continuing to discuss today's topical and urgent questions. The first question will be discussed under number 1045/17-9-2020 in the second cycle of the Hercules MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of the need for direct support from the Municipal Waste Water Corporation (EEA) of Heraklion with permanent staff. Mr Igoumenides has the floor for two minutes and I would ask him to respect them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the DESCRIPTION of Heraklion doubled with the administrative reconstruction of the country in its area of competence and I refer to the most widely known projects in the world "KALIKRIATIS" and "KAPTISTRIA". However, despite the doubling of the region with the ban on recruitment, it has, in my opinion, been a tragic reduction in staff. In 2010, Heraklion had two hundred and thirty persons, and today they serve a hundred twenty - nine. The three of them are with fixed-term contracts by the OAED and the average age of staff of the OAED is fifty-five years. Of the hundred and twenty-six who are under contracts of indefinite duration, the nineteen are under retirement and remain in service, only because their departure - which could take place tomorrow morning - will mean the collapse in practically the operation of the service. There are twenty-three people who have been recruited for two years and yet have not gone ahead. That's a matter I'm holding. The second relates not only to Heraklion, but, as private legal entities, JHA does not belong to the bodies of the general government, they do not have a digital organizational chart - with what this implies - and they cannot be included in mobility programmes. My questions, Mr Minister, are, in the first place, what is going on with the twenty-three who have been waiting for two years now? Secondly, what about covering empty posts? That is, they serve a hundred and twenty-six. Even the twenty-three to hire, they don't cover. We don't get to two hundred thirty. In any case, the new organogram speaks for a hundred and seventy-five, which was arbitrary in cutting additional positions. And thirdly, with regard to the issues that I have told you, regarding the JHA, that they are legal persons of private law, a question is as follows: has the Ministry of Labour thoughts - and what - to overcome with a regulation of all these difficulties, in order to solve or deal with the problem, both of the staff of the JHA and of all the JHA, since we understand that their proper functioning - I believe you agree with me, Mr Minister - has a direct bearing on the protection of the environment and on the defence of public health. I have two texts which arrived at me on 18 September from the operation and 21 September from the association of the staff of the JHA. These letters have arrived to you. It is more detailed the information I have put forward in the minutes and I shall in fact put it in the Minutes for the better information of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u11	Thank you, too. The Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Panagiotis Theodorikos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u12	With regard to this question, I would like to stress that the Municipal Site of Heraklion Crete had submitted a request for 2020 for 15 temporary staff of various specialities, which was fully met by a specific decision, in this case on 4892 on 1 July 2020 of the Ministry of Interior. This covered the emergency needs requested by this JHA. The situation described by the SYRIZA Member, Mr Igoumenidis, regarding this operation is accurate. At present, the problem can be addressed by movements of employees within the municipality and municipal authorities or by secondments and transfers from another municipal company, at the request of the employees themselves. The overall issue you raised, Mr.Mr., is the subject of dialogue with the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece and with the Association of JHA throughout the country, because the reality is that the problem is not only related to the Municipal Water Corporation of the Municipality of Heraklion. It's a wider problem. I don't like to parade. The cause of the 3K tail is related to issues of non-conformity with the previous government, but I do not want to go into this and I do not want to make use of this. I will tell you that we are considering this request together with the corresponding requests of other JHAs, in order to see which of them we will be able to meet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u14	Minister, now I do not think it is worth going back to the stories of the past and much more to the issues that the people who are watching us do not know and we will get them into more trouble. Thank you for confirming the evidence that this is the exact situation. In my opinion, however, because this is precisely the situation, and not only is it the municipal business of the Municipality of Heraklion, but the whole of the JHAs, which is why I believe that the thoughts you have put forward as potential solutions, the movement of even among employees of municipal companies, etc., which is a similar situation everywhere, I think it will not solve the problem. It's a patch that, on the one hand, will close a hole and, on the other, some holes will probably open. This is the first one, so I think we need to move forward with the debate on how to see JHA as private legal entities, with what legislative safeguard we will resolve issues and move on to recruitment. You will allow me, Minister, despite the fact that it is not about staff, but it is about JHA, and you are informed, and I will also present you with another aspect of its activity. It's the debt of the JHA financial system. ICEA Heraklion made a loan of 18m euros to proceed with projects in Heraklion. They are water supply and sewerage works in Heraklion. From this EUR 18 million debt she has already paid the 11 million euros, that is, around 30% to 40%, EUR 7 million, is her debt. With the turtles and the rest of it today totals EUR 50 million. In view of the fact that such a problem is faced by the JHA Iraklio and two more, three across Greece. All other JHAs were integrated into programmes and used financial instruments from ESDP programmes. The question is, therefore, whether the JHA can be exempted from the frogs with some regulation and that only the EUR 7 million debt of its capital remains. Will you tell me: 'But, now, is that not unfair to the citizens'? I would say that all of the activities and the strengthening of Heraklion's JHA either with its staff or financial relief will all facilitate the JHA activity, which is currently in a large replacement programme for the modernisation of Heraklion's water network. You know, Heraklion is the fourth, fifth municipality of the country. You can't drink water from the tap of your house, precisely because of the network, which is moving on and changing, with a 25 million-euro financial programme. I believe that the multi-faceted JHA facility will help its work and, in my opinion, any facilitation, even the economic situation of the JHA, will have its reflection on the citizens of Heraklion, since the water cost will obviously be less, so the JHA tariffs to the citizens of Heraklion will be more costly. In this sense, the strengthening of the JHA will have a direct response and impact on the tariff itself by charging the citizens of the city. So he's going straight to the civilians. For the minutes, I will also submit the corresponding letter with the corresponding letter that has been filed with you, and it is already in your knowledge at the Ministry. I would like to take this opportunity to discuss staff, if you have any thoughts on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Igoumenides. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u16	We have a comprehensive policy, which concerns the JHA, which is related to the financing of water projects, such as that in Heraklion, but also to calls for the 'ITIS ANITY' programme, with which we seek the use of renewable energy sources, particularly in JHA, in order to reduce the economic and energy costs of these enterprises for the benefit of citizens and the environment. We therefore have a comprehensive policy on this subject, which in fact supports the functional work that the JHAs must produce. You saw that on the issue of recruitment staff I am extremely sceptical. I consider it absolutely essential that there should be a comprehensive regulation and not a fragmentary solution involving one or two specific undertakings. That is why I repeat that we are in dialogue with the CEDEFOP, as well as with the entire JHA and the associated link, in order to find the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Minister. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs submits its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Administrative Care - Energy and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Air Force, on the reciprocal supply of fuel’ and: 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Preparation of the Agreement on Acquisition and Mutual Service (Application) between the Ministry of Defence of the United States, represented by the Department of Defence of Administrative Care - Actions and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic represented by the Hellenic Navy on Reciprocal Supply of Fuel." We shall immediately proceed to the seventh Question No 1048/18-9-2020 on the second question of the Korinthias MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Extremely urgently, the anti-military shield in the areas of Athletics, Alamanos and Agios Ioannis affected by the fire of 22 July 2020." Mr. Psychoey, good evening, good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, more than two months after the destructive fire of July 22, 2020, which left thirty thousand acres of burnt forests and crops, the inhabitants of the Athenians, Alamanos, Saint John and the rest of the Corinthian prefecture are in despair and despair ahead of the coming winter. I will not dwell on the responsibilities for the initial oligoria for a fire that started from Kehria, from the sea and reached the central eastern Corinthia or the non-function of "112" or its disappearance and its consequences from central media. I would also like to focus on you and you, in essence, and the content of the question, which is that so far no compensation has been paid to households and businesses to farmers and farmers and to the restoration of basic infrastructure. The location and current state of construction, especially of the village of Athiki and the rest of the areas we visited directly and with the step of SYRIZA, require the immediate implementation of anti-military and anti-corrosion works without time-consuming procedures. We use a letter with hundreds of residents signatures. Let us consider the amount of water and the disasters in the recent summer flood, one month before the fire on 22 June 2020, which caused serious damage to infrastructure and crops, mainly olive trees, without any compensation and rehabilitation yet. Considering the dramatically reduced ground capacity to absorb water, this will fall into multiple quantities in the villages and then into the Xaria basin to the town of Corinth. It must therefore be immediately shielded and made sustainable and safe. Otherwise it is certain that property and human lives will be threatened. For example, the Municipal School of Athletics is based on two streams. In kindergarten, most of the streams cross the village. Do you therefore ask, Minister, what action will you take in order to proceed immediately with the necessary flooding, which will ensure property and human lives in the region? Secondly, why is it that the announced funding and interventions are being delayed at a time when, as I mentioned a month before the fire in flooding, human lives have been compromised, infrastructure has been destroyed and the phenomena in the next period seem to be extreme? How will we shield ourselves in these conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u19	Thank you very much. And this question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u20	First of all, as far as the compensation for people is concerned, there are specific decisions on the part of the Ministry of the Interior. It should be immediate if there has been a delay in their channelling between self-government and the citizens. I think you know that. Secondly, the crucial issue is to address flood risks. I think that is urgent. We have discussed with regional self-government and there is approval of relevant requests from the Regional Unit of Corinthia for road construction projects of 1,250,000 euros and flooding projects of 2 million euros. The regional council knows that it has accepted acceptance, has accepted the sum of EUR 3,250,000 and is expected by the Economic Commission to proceed to the immediate tender of the projects in order to ensure that the problem is addressed by possible flooding. Thirdly, I would like to make it quite clear from the Ministry of Home Affairs that this is a fire-fighting area. In an urgent way, any proposed project proposals from the government in this region will be examined immediately in an exceptional manner in the "ITIS ANITISIA" programme in order to benefit from funding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened carefully to your reply. But I would like to remind you of the first and second points of view of the positions and demands of self-government, which you referred to in a document of 6 August 2020 in the Peloponnese Region, which has been notified to us, which calls for a large number of interventions. Many of them have not been approved by the Ministry. I hope that this will be done in the next few years and that it will be within the funding you are saying. From there on, I would like to take note of the recent statements by the Mayor of Corinthia, Mr Nanopoulou, who, at a recent meeting, held last Wednesday, put on the table concrete works of armour and protection to be carried out in the residential fabric of the regions affected by the recent fires and by 'Janus'. For "January" and "Good Helen's Bathrooms and Almyri's" we have asked a written question separately. But it is important and worth the critical tone of the mayor of Corinthians in relation to the funds that have been approved to repair damages and flooding and the compensation of residents. Of course you know very well that Mr. Nanopoulou has no purpose. It wasn't supported by SYRIZA. New Democracy backed up. So that gets even greater value. It mentions the following features: "We have asked for specific projects, a specific EUR 1.5 million to do what needs to be done. We got 150,000 from the Ministry and that doesn't solve the problem. We will come back and insist. We will call for the urban web projects that have not been included so far because today's development does not thank me at all and does not address the problem of future flooding." I think that these are matters that need to be answered very specifically. These are directly projects which need to be financed and implemented. And I think that at the level of the funds you are going to have to increase them even further. You have the ability to do it in all of these cases. People's problems are huge. They're reaching survival right now. But it is also your obligation as a state to cover these regions with a generous economic and financial intervention in the middle of a pandemic. And so that we do not think that we are generally discussing and vaguely reminding you that in 2018, when Zorba's theory became, the previous government moved directly to the part it had to deal with the damages received by the municipalities. A total of 18 million were given to Corinth. It has given rise to a high rate of compensation to households and households as submitted to the municipalities and implemented. There have been piles of anti-military works with other financial instruments. Compensation has been paid to enterprises, which are unfortunately still pending under the responsibility of this government. The lists were ready, but this dimension has not yet been funded, which is very critical, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. We are therefore asking you to proceed immediately with specific interventions and funding for the implementation of these projects that are crucial to the region and ensure that the people in the next period live with dignity and security at their place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Psychoyer. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u24	I'm going to need less, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u25	Always less. I wish I had you every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u26	My Laconian origin also seals the way I speak publicly, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to tell you that this Ministry of the Interior, this government, this Prime Minister and this Minister of the Interior have shown that we are not at all interested in any mayor's political identity. We treat all local societies and all citizens exactly the same. We're all Greeks. We are the same patriots and we have the same problems. Woe and woe if at times of misery and destruction we made exceptions and looked at where any mayor belongs politically. I say this for the comment on the way the Mayor of Corinthians spoke. It is his right to express himself in the way he sees fit. Secondly, in my philosophy I was clear. For any project there is a basic study and the self-government wants it to be set up, it should be submitted immediately to the "ITIMATION ANTI-DUMP". I have not set any limit on the money. I repeat that it will be examined positively. This is the policy that we are pursuing in all affected areas, whether they are fireflies or destroyed by floods or by any phenomenon. So you're breaking open doors, Mr. President. We are waiting for the relevant demands of self-government. As regards the delay with which small and medium-sized enterprises have been faced, it is not the object of the Ministry of the Interior. Indemnities for them do not come from the Ministry of Interior. I will look at it, I will speak with my colleague, who has responsibility for the respective services, to see what has happened and to help quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u27	Thank you both. Good luck to you all the time. The third question will be discussed under number 1063/21-9-2020 in the first cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Additional need to serve the General Hospital of Rhodes". Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. The issues of subsistence of the General Hospital of Rhodes in our view, but also with what we have seen during our visit, are urgent. The shortcomings are mainly staff, which reaches about 50%, on the basis of the inadequate establishment plan of the hospital and, of course, part of these workers are cases of contractual subsidiary, but also of general staff with a fixed-term employment relationship, whose contracts end in the next few months. Indicatively, of the hundred and fifty - four positions of doctors, seventy - seven are covered. Correspondingly, in nursery staff of three hundred and fifty - nine seats, ninety - five are covered. Of course, the situation is the same for traumatists, chamber assistants, who from one hundred and seven places are covered as soon as forty - eight. As you can see, such a hospital, prefecture, covers not only the needs of the Rhodes population, but also the surrounding islands, which are marked, during the summer months, the summer season - the tourist season, the population tripled or even quadruple, depending on the tourist movement. For example, at the ICU - which is a first-line unit and on the occasion of you, dealing with the pandemic - instead of thirty-six nurses - on the basis of these, which must apply per ICU bed and the corresponding eight ICU beds from which for some time, years, if you want to do so, do not work with six beds - they work thirteen for these six beds and corresponding four doctors, when three intensifiers are missing, at least on the basis of the organization rather than the needs. So, not to talk about the on-call treatment unit, which is from eight to nine per month, and to add all four to five on-call alerts that are called upon to cover, through this type of invention, incidents that are intersected through the EAW at the airport for aerospace. Here is the question of subscribing the EKA itself to doctors, etc. So the questions, Mr President, are as follows: What measures will the government and the Ministry take to ensure the immediate and complete staffing of the Rhodes Hospital with permanent and full-time staff, especially now, with the development of the second wave of pandemic? Of course, the health demand throughout the country and our own is the permanentisation of workers in hospitals of all specialties, employed with flexible or different types of flexible working relationships, the full staffing of the ICU with medical and nursing staff, and the exemption from newspapers with the EAW, with similar as I said, the staffing of the EAW to doctors and all the necessary resources and, of course, to meet the needs to be met in the area, on the island. Also, to abolish contractors and to serve all sections with permanent full-time staff, with rights to feeding, cleanliness and, of course, to pay off their wages and stop their pay, we would say, month-to-month employment for cleanliness staff, namely. Fourthly, to pay off the extra newspapers of doctors and not just of course, the thousands of days off, due to hospital health workers, to hospital workers. Of course, they should be able, with these measures, to rest, to rest after the intensity of their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozaman, good evening, good week. You have the floor for three minutes and I hope you will follow them, like the previous Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in my time. Mr Lambroulis, you have spoken in your question about ancillary and other staff contracts which expire in a few months' time. Of course we know. However, you have left the fact that on the initiative of the Ministry of Health's political leadership, a first extension of this category of ancillary personnel has already been given up until 30 September, and we will also extend to all subsidiary staff categories by the end of 2020, initially, until we see how the coronary pandemic will evolve and always in line with the needs of the health system. The same applies to contractors in cleaning, storage and feeding services. We received a situation and had to manage it. We ensured that their contracts were extended by the end of 2021. Also - you do not mention it in your question - to inform you that there are four thousand OAED workers working in the health system and it seems that they will continue to strengthen the country's health structures, following our own interventions and initiatives. Acts, therefore, and not words and solutions that have direct effect, without promises of action, which we cannot implement. We're doing what we've said we can do. Our concern is to strengthen the National Health System with permanent, human potential, but certainly in exceptional circumstances you will take emergency measures, and that is why we have covered our needs with subsidiary staff. Let me remind you that at the beginning of the pandemic, our planning was for two thousand ancillary staff hired and we have exceeded six thousand two hundred. As far as the General Hospital of Rhodes is concerned, I will agree with you, and all hospitals on the ground are needed. That is why we aim to implement requests from the hospital itself, for permanent staffing, in successive notices. The current year for the Rhodes Hospital has announced a total of twenty-two specialist posts in three different awards in March, July and September. Nearly half of them are in the process of appointment, for the three now applications are made by candidates and the rest are in a final stage in the crisis councils, and by the end of the year these twenty-two doctors will have been appointed. Also, there are two AACC notices to cover other staff's posts. The results of 2K are expected in the next few days, and the cover of eight other staff of different specialities and branches will be covered, while the 6K notice of the ADP, in which the Rhodes Hospital has fifteen other staff, is in the process of submitting applications. In addition to the permanent posts we are preparing, we cover any direct needs of the hospital with the recruitment of auxiliary staff. Altogether, forty additional recruitments have been granted, of which thirty have now been carried out. Therefore, Mr Lambroulis, staffing, functional upgrading and more general modernisation of Rhodes Hospital and intensive care unit are our top priority. After all, you all know in this Chamber that there is a concrete implementation plan concerning the expansion of existing beds and the development of new beds in intensive care units in the country. In practice, therefore, we are carrying out and recruiting staff in intensive care facilities, as well as projects to upgrade hospital facilities and equipment. For this purpose, we have set up, in accordance with Article 54 of Law 4690, at the hospitals in the country five hundred organic positions of qualified ESS doctors, three hundred specialist doctors in intensive treatment and a thousand organic hospital staff, precisely to serve the intensive care units. The hospital of Rhodes is also part of this project. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that all staff on-calls will be regularly paid off as they are settled immediately. Since you have referred to the preparedness papers in the EAW, there are - of course you know that - the specific management protocols for incidents which the EAW is holding. As long as we're talking about a hospital crossing, there should be a doctor in the E.R.A. At the moment, we are also strengthening the EMCDDA, of course, with the announcement of sixteen posts of medical staff, so that the EMCDDA can meet its own needs in urgent cases. In any case, however, I think there is a discharge at the hospital in Rhodes at the moment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u31	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u32	Thank you. Look, I wouldn't originalize if I said that of what you just mentioned, I will only focus on the Rhodes Hospital, Minister and Mr. President. The question was about the hospital. You, as you wish, or as you have decided. You came to say about the notices, which we have heard many times. But I'm telling you again that for the general plan you're talking about, but also for the Rhodes Hospital, it's dropping in the ocean in the face of the huge problems that the Hospital is currently facing in Rhodes. It's not Rhodes' originality. It's a hospital with huge time problems, because of course, it didn't come up in a year. We don't say that. As did previous governments, so did the present government. Within this period of pandemic with the increased demands for the public health system - not to go far in this direction - hospitals should be assigned and already ready before the first wave of the pandemic, with staff of all specialties and, of course, with additional staff on the way. These are hospitals operating under normal conditions with 50% or 60%, these are capacity rates based on the organograms of the ESS and not on the needs, which were called upon to face a pandemic with this staff and the potential, which, of course, also deposited and deposited the last colony of its powers. But you're not answering me. We have three empty intensification doctors at the ICU of Rhodes Hospital. Will at least three doctors be hired? Will the two beds that are closed work? Needs are huge. You understand - I said it before - the amount of incidents that the intensive or the unit concerned and the hospital have to cover by extension. He's got a neurologist, who's got every day's on-call, and a nurse. We have two other examples. There are two anaesthetics. This whole situation with the enormous shortages of staff has, of course, an impact on the intensification of the work of the existing workforce, the workers there. For example - and I refer to the question as well - that about EUR 15 000 is due to staff. Of course this has happened - it was expected - within the period of the second wave of the pandemic a month ago and less, part of the staff were forced into quarantine because of an incident of the coronary, with which they came into contact. Such issues will also arise along the way. Imagine what can be done if this is possible - away from here - generalized. Secondly, I would also like to say about the laundry, as we have said and put it in the question, because the situation is tragic there and as far as what we say about the workers and the conditions under which they are called upon to work with dangerous and obsolete equipment. We saw them with our eyes. Everyone admits it to the hospital, from administration to the latter - it is not devalued - a worker there. Without ventilation, without air conditioning, with incomplete staff who cannot respond or try to respond to the enormous needs of the hospital. The hospital again says there's no sheets, because the donations from the hotel owners stopped when the hotels were working during the tourist season. This year, where COVID exists and hotels don't work, they didn't give them sheets. So they don't have sheets for the hospital. That is where we have arrived, Minister, and Mr President. Not to say any more because such examples are too much in Greece. With regard to feeding and cleaning, what I said in the prototype, I would like to say that it has been given to contractors. What is the result, particularly in the contraction of cleanliness where the situation is tragic? The workers themselves denounce it. We talked to them. What are they doing? Competitor contractors make insurance measures to each other, so that the cleaning contract is renewed every month. A month's a company and a month's another company. Or denounce contracts, stop, reopen and go by and say. It is not rare that, with the change of the employer, we have had the result that workers in cleanliness have been unpaid for a number of months. Let us not talk about the presents which are due to the situation that has been created and to the benefits. Of course, cleaning staff have two and a half years to get permission. Also, not to talk about the personal protection measures they do not have. 'Chanttown', let me say it popularly, Mr President, from their pockets. They showed us and told us, and that cannot be called into question. We, Minister, are also calling for the Rhodes Hospital here and now a direct staffing with all the necessary and necessary staff. Auxiliary staff, contract staff, etc., do not cost a penny of sacks to the State and the Government. It is required to pay the wages either by means of programmes or by the hospital itself from own revenue. So what are you doing? Yes, but is that why the state does not pay a single cent, rather than the hospital's own income, which is where it will get it from? From the sale of property. Here, of course, we are entering the process of operating the hospitals themselves as businesses, which you, of course, are driving, with the latest bills, but also with the policy that you have been carrying out in the name of public health in general.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, I responded with specific figures as regards the recruitments that are being undertaken and those scheduled for the Rhodes Hospital, which are being implemented gradually and immediately. I told you what measures we have taken for contractors in feeding, keeping and housing, and what we want to do with subsidiary staff. We first have said that the health system needs permanent solutions, permanent medical and other staff, in order to address the distortions and shortcomings of the past. All this has accumulated in recent years and what you say about laundry, building facilities that need renovation. Let's not forget that the Hospital of Rhodes and a number of other hospitals, which were one of the last to be built in the country, have now completed a life cycle and they certainly need modernisation and renovation. This is part of one of our plans, and that is good or bad - obviously bad - does not happen from one day to the next. There is planning, no one wants the health worker to work in bad conditions. It's all registered and a priority has been placed. At the moment, our priority is to deal with the coronary pandemic. I told you that we have recommended positions of medical and nursing personnel to serve the intensive care units. In this design is also the intensive care unit in Rhodes. Rhodes Hospital is definitely at a hub for the country and serves a large area. Of course, in any case, no one disputes reality. She's the one I described. We are doing everything possible to improve the daily lives of every citizen who comes to hospitals to receive health services and workers in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u35	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the first with number 8618/29-7-20 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need for a direct supply of molecular analyst for SARS - COV2 at Achilio Volos Hospital". Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since the beginning of the pandemic until now, which is the second wave of the pandemic, the Achilopoulos Hospital of Volos has no molecular analyst. The dozens of tests carried out daily by the hospital, as you know, are sent to the Larissa University Hospital for analysis. You also know very well that the results of these tests are late for up to twenty-four hours to be given back to the Achilles Hospital, which means that there is a terrible problem for patients who remain in the hospital in order to learn the result, but there is also a terrible problem in the very operation of the hospital, let alone the normal planning of surgery, regular and extraordinary. But there is a great difficulty, Minister, for the citizens, who wish to take this test as a precaution. So without the hospital having a molecular analyst, they are forced to resort to the solution of private clinics, which means that for a narrow financial possibility that the average Voliotis currently has to spend a hundred and a hundred and twenty euros to do the test. To date, Minister, the health agencies of Magnesia have been demanding the supply of a molecular analyst. To be more specific, when I say sanitary bodies refer to the Medical Association, the hospital scientific bodies, the Scientific Board, the Medical Service, the Administration. As a whole, the health community directly requires the supply of this equipment. Do you know anything else, Minister? It may not be included within the question, but the last ministerial decision by the Ministry of Health to allocate the four hundred qualified doctors also extends the anxiety of public health officials at Volos Hospital, but also by extension of thousands of public health users to Volos. Is it possible, when you are aware of the hypotension in Achilles Hospital, to allocate two qualified doctors, when Lamia receives eleven, Chalkida twelve, the two hospitals of Larissa eight? I do not say that they will not be given, Mr Minister, and will not be served, but on the basis of what criteria this allocation has been made. Why, when you know that it serves two hundred thousand people, when you know that the objective needs are very specific, when you know that Volos Hospital has a third clinic, a coronary to serve, you only give two doctors? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Micopulus. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mikopoulou, let me make a general comment at first, before I go to the essence of your question. The tests carried out in the country shall not be carried out blindly. There are criteria for selecting the projects considered, as well as targeted interventions for the population with a project. The supply of a molecular analyst for the coronary in Achilopoulos Hospital of Volos has been raised as a matter of concern. From the very first moment of the pandemic to meet the needs, we have defined specific hospitals, which had production capacity to carry out these checks, that is, large machines, high productivity in a short time, experienced personnel, the possibility of carrying out checks on large numbers of samples, and in particular the possibility of responding within 24 hours. To this end, we have chosen the University Hospital of Larissa, which fulfils these conditions to meet the needs of Thessaly and the wider area. Let me say that we have not had problems so far with the adequacy of controls, but also with regard to delays in the answers. Let me remind you that it's twenty-four hours, you can see it yourself doing a search on the internet. There are countries such as Great Britain where the result is not earlier than seventy-two hours. You have also referred to our fellow citizens who resort to the city's private clinics in order to do a test for preventive reasons. Another sampling point. Sampling is done everywhere, it can also be done at Volos Hospital and may not have a molecular analyst. For as far as these private clinics, which you say - as far as we know - do not all private laboratories on the ground do the molecular analysis. Therefore, sampling points exist. In fact, both in Magnesia and in the rest of the territory there is a project in progress, where primary health care units will be able to make a screening and evaluation of incidents, of course, sampling for coronary diagnostics, so that we can extend the points where our every citizen - if he meets the criteria for carrying out the test - to carry out this test and to check the coronary. On the other hand, we must think that there must be a rational design in terms of the distribution of machinery. It is not possible for every hospital to have such machines, because it is often the cost of reagents that is not of interest, because it may sometimes seem small when it comes to purchasing such machinery, but it may be very expensive for reagents. In any case, however, on the basis of the epidemiological data, we are examining the needs of the area and, if necessary, we are ensuring that each hospital has the necessary equipment. This also applies in the case of Volos. I would also remind you that last Friday the Board of Directors of Volos Hospital decided to take reagents for a molecular analyst, which will also control other infectious diseases, such as influenza and tuberculosis, and will also examine COVID -19. Such analysts already use other hospitals in the area, such as Trikalon Hospital, Chalkida and Lamia. The result will be obtained in 50 minutes for a specific number of samples at a time. It will be used completely targeted at emergency departments in the intensive care unit and emergency surgery. Of course, in this battle, we also put rapid tests, which give timely, rapid results, so that we can move to medical practice, if necessary. The rest will be sent to the lab at the University Hospital of Larissa, where, as I can tell you, this hospital is in a process of obtaining a robotic machine, which can process a thousand samples a day, so that we can even take less than twenty-four hours of the possibility of extracting results into a molecular control. Because you have also referred to the number of doctors in the crises, which are under way, we have stressed many times - I have repeated this on a previous question, to say it to you too - that there is a specific design. Compare the Hospital of Volos with the Hospital of Chalkida and Lamia where in Chalkida and Lamia there are currently new intensive care units, so there is a priority in serving intensive treatment units. From there on, as I told you, we are strengthening intensive care units in the other hospitals in the country, and we are trying to meet the needs in empty organic locations in the other medical specialities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u39	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am also tempted to make two, three first comments, on the basis of the answer you gave me, because the content of your answer is more about the first wave of pandemic than about the second outbreak that we are living in today. You give me an answer when there were two cases in Attica and zero cases in Magnesia, when today we are counting hundreds of cases in Attica, and every day almost - beyond a few days that Magnesia is clean - we measure cases at both Thessaly and at Magnesia level with schools open, Mr. Minister, with a hospital that has repeated its regular operation at the level of emergency and tactical surgery. Therefore, your answer is a little out of reality, I am sorry to say it. The second issue, Minister, is that people who go and carry out tests do not do so in a 'blind' way, as you described. I'm talking on the basis of the health protocols that apply. They are people who want to go on a trip, people who want to have access to productive schools. Shouldn't they do the test? People who are going in for a regular or emergency surgery shouldn't they do the test? The health protocol provides for that. Your answer is unequivocal to reality, which is currently happening in the public hospital. I'm going to tell you something else, Minister, because I think you have a blurred picture of what's going on in Achilles Hospital. I do not think it is an honour for the Ministry of Health and for the 5th Health Region that the question of the formation of public health in Magnesia is more a matter for the political offices of the Members of Parliament than for the Ministry of Health and the 5th Health Region. Don't tell me you don't know that until today, the supply of this machine has been delayed, because they've been shooting for which company would be donating to the Achilopulian Hospital. You told me something about the last decision the hospital board made. Minister, don't mock us. You know very well that Mr. Serret, the commander of the 5th Health Region, has chosen the cheapest solution. Because you know that since 2010 no secondary hospital is provided by the molecular analyst. It has opened an invitation to tender in conjunction with the accompanying equipment and according to the resulting costs, this is covered by the 5th Health Region. What did the Health Region want when it did the Achilopoulos Hospital's respective act for the coming semester? The cost is 170,000 euros. What did Mr. Serret say? 'It is very expensive'. He said what you told us today. The University of Larissa may in itself assume the structure of the treatment of the pandemic at the level of Thessaly. When Mr Seretis was pressed, however, he gave an oral order to the Governor of Achilopoulos Hospital, Mr Doko, direct assignment to provide a molecular analyst of EUR 20,000, which is sufficient, Minister, for a test of up to 15 and twenty days, while the hospital for the coming semester has said - all the institutions of the hospital, together with the manager of the biochemical department - that with the EUR 170,000 we can cover the next two - three months to twenty-five tests a day. So, Minister, when you give such an answer, you must bear in mind that there is at the moment a terrible revolt at Magnesia level. Also, when you tell me about the distribution that you will see what needs are. What are the needs, Minister? The fourteen doctors of the previous contract have not yet been placed. We still haven't come up with a molecular analyst for Achilopoulos Hospital and you tell us that in 20 days, while we have winter in front of us, we will be healthyly okay in Magnesia. You're giving us two doctors. Do you know what you're telling us, Minister? That politically - you have four Members of the Co-Population - but also our health, you have written in common, Minister. And I'm sorry about what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Meikopoulou. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u42	Mr. Micopulus, I'm sorry for your designation at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u43	I'm sorry too, but that's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u44	Let me say that you are confused and you do not know the reality. Because you're telling us that some people who need to run the test either because they're on the ER or because they're waiting for surgery, they can't do the test. Tell me if he delayed an O.R. because the test could not be performed. For all these cases, which you have referred to, I will inform you that all these tests have been carried out free of charge by the State. If all the criteria and conditions for testing are met, this is done free of charge for each citizen. Let me remind you that we started eight hundred and fifty tests a day and we've been on average over fourteen thousand tests this day. And they're growing. Of course, the situation was different at the beginning of the pandemic, it is now different. Also, let us not forget - because I spoke at the outset about targeted interventions and criteria for the selection of those examined - the mobile units of the EGE, where they were targeted in areas where there were issues or structures which were to be checked or specific population groups. Therefore, let us not confuse the mechanical part, where a machine is installed, with the points where every citizen can come in, in order to get a sample to carry out the molecular control. Once again, I would like to say that we are very brief on the results, which are ready within 24 hours, by such an examination. We're throwing more guns into our patron and more machines. I told you that we are considering, depending on the evolution of the disease, where the machinery will be installed, always having in mind the cost-benefit ratio. Because it doesn't matter if it's cheap or expensive. I told you it mattered to the reagent's cost and what the state is best for you and when you have the result. Because other machines are slow, other machines are fast. In any case, the points where each citizen can come in are relevant in order to obtain the sampling and to have the result needed in time. In addition to the machine, which will install the Hospital of Volos, I told you that we will also have rapid tests, which will be used in emergency situations and emergency departments, so that we can have quick results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u45	Thank you too, Minister, for keeping time. We move on to the second question with No 3472/22-1-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on 'Protection measures against the coronary'. Mr. Kegeroglu, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for two minutes and I'm sure you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. We'll try. Today we are discussing a question which, in time and in a responsible manner, had submitted the Change Movement from 22 January 2020, with which we asked, together with Mr. Andreas Poula, "Protection measures against the coronary". We said in January: "Global concern is caused by the spread of the coronary, which has so far counted nine human losses in China and at least four hundred forty patients in Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, South Korea and the USA." And we continued with the quote of the scientific data and the warnings of the WHO. A critical question, Mr Minister, to which you have not answered, because it seems that you have not evaluated either the content of it or the extent of the risk it has been warning about. After the critical period of "seeing and doing", the government took a number of fifty days later and, of course, when the deadlock came and feared of what happened in other countries, it went inevitably and correctly, at least then, to a universal lockdown with the known consequences, but for the economy and society. But think that if you had made any progress, even in one of the four proposals that we had submitted to you - control at the gates of the country, ports - airports, information campaign, protection measures, hospital support, even if the thermometers were placed - we might have prevented the group from Jerusalem and Milan. The ultimate objective of this question today is not to record that an important question tabled in time to the Greek Parliament has not been evaluated properly, but because in the second phase of the pandemic, as it has been said, the government seems tired to manage the crisis effectively, making many wrong choices. Three weeks ago, on the initiative of President Fofi Gennimatas, the Change Movement also provoked discussion at the level of the Heads of State and Government on the problem of public health, the economy, the workers and the functioning of schools. Today, six hundred schools are occupied and 100 schools or departments are closed due to COVID. Today the cases are two hundred sixty-nine over and down. They're variing every day. It's around two hundred and thirty-three hundred and pan-Hellenic are about eighteen thousand. The WHO makes appalling assessments of the global outcome. It is a fact that the ESS, with the valuable efforts of the staff, has produced the first phase. However, this first phase had different characteristics. Today, in view of the coming months and the difficult times, we have to see what we are doing, with an effective plan, with coordinated action and, in particular, with measures concerning all the factors, which have helped to negatively develop this pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u47	Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that under no circumstances has the government reacted, of course, the result of the whole effort is tangible, it is obvious, not only to the Greek population, but to the whole world and everyone has recognized the successful management of the pandemic. You said the government got tired. Under no circumstances are we tired. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have planned, bearing in mind the worst development in terms of this disease. We saw what is going on next to us, in the neighbouring countries, in the rest of Europe and in other countries. We have therefore in no way been reassured. We have been given the opportunity, in a very short time, to overcome the shortcomings and distortions of the past that afflict the health system, and at the moment to have created an important deposit in the health system, so that we can manage this second wave of pandemic as well and speed up the reforms that the health system needs in order to meet the needs of the whole population. Let me remind you that no matter what we did - why you referred to the cases from Jerusalem and Milan - there was no way we could not have any cases in the country, even if we were to check on everyone. Because you know you can do molecular detection, coronary testing and not be detected at first. So, it was blown out impossible to have cases in the country. We managed to get through the measures we took in time, a success in the management of the coronary. Because we have taken steps quickly, not only in terms of lockdown, but also in terms of strengthening the National Health System and staff. I will repeat that from two thousand recruitments, which was our original programming, we have exceeded six thousand two hundred subsidized subsidized recruits. The personal protective equipment for no health in the National Health System has been missing. We all saw on TV screens and on the Internet what happened to modern states, where the sanitaries wore garbage bags. It has neither been missing nor will it be missing an instrument of personal protection. We have ensured adequate follow-up and indeed, for the first time, our country builds the necessary strategic reserve in personal protection instruments. We have implemented and implemented protocols to deal with possible and confirmed cases. We created new intensive treatment beds that were closed, because there was no equipment available or there was no personnel working on them. We took care of the adequacy in the medication, which, based on scientific data, should be administered to patients with coronary. We increased production capacity in diagnostic tests in the country. And of course we protected our structures by pre-operative checks on the coronary and we protected the health system, which worked throughout the coronary by serving all our fellow citizens who did not have a coronary, because that is what we have to do right now. A major factor in our planning is the prevention and information of citizens, and I think we have achieved a great deal of results there. From the very beginning we have contacted our fellow citizens in various ways, stressing the importance of the hygiene of hands, respiratory hygiene, the observance of minimum distances. These are simple rules, behavioural factors to do with the protection of public health, and these are the small habits that we have acquired that will enable us now to win, manage this second wave. Because it is not only the readiness of the health system, it is important whether the world remains consistent with the decisions of the state. And that's what it looks like. You referred to the number of cases, about 250 per day. But these cases could be much more if we did not take the measures we had taken and if people did not comply with the measures taken. The contribution of the National Public Health Agency, which is the operational arm of the Ministry of Health by carrying out mainly targeted sample checks at both entrance gates and mobile groups throughout the territory, is also decisive. And the battle continues and is likely to be more difficult in the next few months. We have done - to emphasise once again - several things, preparing the health system. We know that this is never enough. But every day that passed, we gained experience, we gained knowledge. We are in a position to deal with possible negative development of the disease. We strengthen our healthcare staff with recruitment, ensure adequacy in personal treatment, increase controls, develop more hospitalization beds and intensive treatment beds. We do whatever it takes to meet the challenge of pandemic. And as we did in the first wave of pandemic, you can be sure that's how we'll make it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I didn't ask you what you did after, when the deadlock seemed. We have had the bad example of other countries and we have moved to Lockdown. I asked you what you did at least fifty days from the day you tabled the question, until you made the first decision on carnivals and I did not make a reply. As you have not given a written answer to this question, why were you looking then without seeing what the facts are worldwide and what exactly is happening? And I'm not gonna get into the logic that you came in and told us it was destiny and we couldn't avoid it. No, Minister, it's not like that. Like now, it is not right what the Prime Minister says is the responsibility of the citizens and'self-protection or lockdown' and closure. We need to revise a lot of things, to reflect, to use the experience - which you quite rightly said is accumulated and very long - from all over the past period and to upgrade the way in which we deal with the problem. I think that even of the hundred and fifty proposals that we have tabled to you, if you had adopted more than the few you have adopted, the result would have been better. And because we are better than other countries, it does not mean that we are where we could be today and the previous period. For training, it seems more likely that the departments should become fifteen members. We can't go on with twenty-five or over. Also important is the reduction of curriculum material, rotating courses, recruitment of teachers and cleaning staff, better distance learning and training of teachers and teachers. As far as public transport is concerned, crowding cannot continue. There must be a reduction in seats per bus, support for the CBELs, increase in buses, tourist buses and their drivers, since I think that now neither the tourist buses nor the drivers are working. Voucher should be given for taxi to the weak and sensitive, vulnerable groups. The chronic illness, the disabled person, cannot enter the buses. So, we need to take voucher for a taxi. That's for granted. Also, means of protection, - now fights must be given everywhere, not after we have an outburst - information campaign by experts. To provide masks and disinfectants from TEVA to all our weak fellow citizens, to the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, to the HEIs, to the chronic suffering. The Ministry of Labour, which is responsible for enabling the partnerships to obtain these materials, has assessed how much the cost for a four-member family, a five-member family to wear masks for their protection, to have their disinfectants when their income is minimal? Unfortunately, the Ministry of Labour negatively responded to the partnerships in order to obtain together with food, which is absolutely necessary for people to live, and means of protection for their lives. Thermometers must be installed at airports and checks must be carried out, Minister, not just for those from abroad. And for internal flights there must be a thermometer in my view, and this will help to detect problems in good time. Minister, it is not a matter of the work you do, or of the Ministry of Health, because it is certain that you are doing a major job, at least quantitatively. Here we now have a new danger. This new danger does not include the administrative planning of the country as it was structured so far. We should see and understand that the health risk in the current or other form did not come to leave, but came to stay. So we need to upgrade the system. A national coordinator for public health is needed and, if possible, also a professional in public health, not individual infectious. It's a big difference. To be mutually acceptable to the scientific community and to be appropriate, to coordinate the work, along with the work of the classical of ministries, ministers and hospital structures, in order not only to deal with the pandemic - which now seems to be in a second phase that we need to make this upgrading of the system with which we are dealing with and manage it - but perhaps we need to have a permanent structure with this objective and with those features that I have mentioned to you. The National Health System must be reborn in motion. The primary health care to be integrated, see more mobile consistency, quickly see staffing with permanent ICUs, with stable people, with constant work, and of course, prescribe the tests. Why not? These are issues that we need to see in the next period and instead of applause, we must finally put together all the heavy and unhealthy staff and see decent pay. Why don't the doctors go submit applications to the notice you made last days in many places? They do not go with EUR 800, 900 and 1000 when they are in other countries with at least four-fold wages. Why would they come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, it was not the question that you tabled in January that gave us the first signal to deal with the pandemic that broke out in the rest of the world. We knew. And of course we have, like all ministries, all the governments, the scientists who inform us. We have contact with international organisations such as the World Health Organisation, the European Centre for Infections. So, yes, we knew and prepared and found us ready to begin the pandemic. We have said many times in this Chamber that there are many times delayed written questions to be answered because the volume of questions put to the Ministry of Health is enormous. In no case, then, did anything intentionally happen to avoid this question, and we certainly knew it, and it seems from the result that the pandemic is before us. You talked about thermometers and various other measures. You know, we could get into communication games. We got cameras. You know that. It has the Ministry of Health, it has the National Public Health Agency. It is, however, a measure that does not work and does not bring about the desired results. If we wanted to, I'm telling you, we'd be filthy, we'd be able to do it. As far as the other measures are concerned, both in schools and in public transport, there are the experts' recommendations, there are specific protocols. In any case, the state does not transfer responsibility to the citizens as you have said. We do not want to take responsibility. The state, however, takes some decisions to protect the health of its citizens. In these decisions, each citizen must comply. And because there is a great deal of compliance we have these results that we are seeing at the moment. I will repeat it once again. The management of the pandemic was more a matter of public health management because it was about behaviour, what we said about how we treat the pandemic, about the simple habits we had to obtain and then it was and it is now an issue of organising the health system. This whole management so far has enabled us, as I have said in my protology, every day to know more about the coronary to acquire experiences, knowledge, even in daily medical practice. Otherwise, in March, the medical community at a global level, as well as our medical community in Greece and medical and other staff, managed a coronary incident, otherwise it is now dealing with it. So every day we are gaining experience, gaining knowledge, and as I told you, we have planned from the beginning to face the worst scenario and we are sure we will. In any case, of course, because we certainly do not have the only truth, there are cases from all the parties where concrete proposals can be made and all of them are taken into account. Because the fight is common, it's all about. It is not a question of ideology, it is not a matter of party controversy. It is a matter for the country to do so in this critical battle which it gives to meet these critical circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with our second question with number 1064/21-9-2020 on the second question of the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, on the subject: "The serious subsidization of the General Hospital of Rethymno Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor. I let you talk more on Friday because I had room for it. Now I don't have one at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u54	I shall try to be in the context of the ongoing debate. Minister, we are returning to the questions we have put to you on 6-4-2020, the pandemic principle, the first wave and 11-9-2020, that is, the second wave of the pandemic, and the report by the Rethymnon Doctors' Association on 16-9-2020. Of course, you did not bother to answer, at least in the first of April, which shows irresponsibility, but also the impoverishment on the part of the government of both the serious problems of the Rethymnon Hospital and much more when things have deteriorated much further, despite the serious shortcomings of the Rethymnon Hospital, despite the urgent, extraordinary and current needs. The hospital is one of the most subordinated in Crete, with serious shortages in medical staff. Thirty vacant posts of specialist doctors, i.e. 37% of organic posts and thirty-eight specialist posts, approximately 72%. There are also shortcomings in first line specialities, critical, especially in a pandemic period. Just to say that they serve only two permanent pneumonologists, two permanent pathologists, two permanent anestheticists, who are unable to fully and safely cover the on-call program, but also to cope with the daily functioning of clinics and regular medical services. Great are the shortages of nurses, traumatists, cleaners, manufacturers and other specialties. Insufficient also are the ITH beds. It is only seven, for a population of more than eighty-five thousand and is held with only five permanent doctors. So, is the 7th D.C. doing it? It's being pulverized. To temporarily cover up these serious gaps uses mandatory doctors’ movements, trying to shut holes. In reality, however, it opens even more. And some examples, for that reason, are true. Pathologist from the Hospital of Chania was forced to carry out newspapers at the Rethymno Hospital. Two rural doctors were seconded to the pathological and pulmonary clinic of Rethymnon Hospital. A recent command from the 7th Ministry of Health of the Centre of Kissamos Chania, which required him, at the same time as daily hours at the Kissamos Health Center and at the same time the on-calls at the Kissamos Health Center, to do two and three on-calls a month at the Rethymno Hospital, which, notably, is ninety-five kilometers from Kissamos, thus further weakening the island's subordinate primary health care. Also, for the continuation of surgery, the 7th Ministry of Defence decided to support Rethymno Hospital by anestheticists from other hospitals in Crete. And you know the saliva that has been caused by the notice of the 7th RC which excludes the anaesthetics for recruitment. There are staff movements and between departments of hospitals to meet the needs of the COVID sections -19. I will even file a specific complaint - a document from the Association of Doctors of Chania. Part of the gaps are also temporarily covered by contractors living in a permanent job insecurity. What did the 7th Ministry do to meet such needs? He proceeded in collaboration with a private pathologist and a private anaesthetic with a service report for up to six days per month. It's over now, ending September. The fourteen permanent specialists who were declared February and twenty-four regular staff posts of 2K, for which the crises, as in other hospitals, have not yet been completed, are not enough to cover half of the gaps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u55	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u56	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, due to all these huge shortages, the hospital is unable to respond not only to the increased needs of the pandemic, but even to the usual daily needs. And we ask you, Minister, what the government intends to do, what the Ministry intends to do, in order to direct the Rethymnon Hospital with the necessary permanent staff, to permanently simulate workers with fixed-term contracts, to withdraw staff movements between public health structures, to reform the hospital's body, with the establishment of new organic positions, to respond to modern needs and, of course, to open new ICU beds at the Rethymno Hospital, as well as all hospitals, of course, dedicated to the necessary permanent medical staff. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u57	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Synthyakis, last week in this Chamber you asked me a similar question about the General Hospital of Agios Nikolaos. In general, the answer I gave you also applies to Rethymnon Hospital. If something has changed in the past few days, it is the publication of a 30-eight-seat notice of permanent medical staff of various specialties posted in "DIAGY" last Tuesday. There, then, you will see that for the Rethymnon Hospital, a total of nine doctors were called up as follows: two in the anesthesiology specificity to the degree of manager, three internal pathology positions, two to the degree of manager and one in the curator I, pneumonology - tuberculology, one curator position, one curator's second and two to the second. So you can understand that we are working targeted by assessing the needs of the hospital and setting specific priorities, always after the recommendations of the relevant scientific organs of the hospital, as well as the administration of the hospital and the health region. And I want to assure you that this is just the beginning. We are well aware that a key element in the implementation of our design, changes and reforms in the health sector is the adequacy of permanent medical, nursing and other personnel. In this direction we are moving, that is our goal. We have the political will to implement it. We will do so and make sure that very soon we will have concrete results. But nothing can happen from one day to the next. We have said so many times that there are shortcomings, there are weaknesses and gaps, which have accumulated for many years, and we have managed and - in particular because of the management of the coronary pandemic - within a short period of time we have made major changes in the health system, we have covered several gaps and we have tried in every way to deal with and solve all the problems, which is gradually happening and the results will appear in a timely manner. We never wrapped up, as you say, the problems. We recognise them and that is the important thing, to recognise that there are problems in order to be able to design the solutions required, to give these solutions and to be permanent. Mr Synonymakis, I owe you five answers, which I of course give for a very long time, since you are constantly returning to these issues. Firstly, with regard to staffing - and I have said so again - we are launching a series of notices on permanent posts. In addition to the announcement of the nine posts of doctors published, as I told you at the beginning of this week, still nine doctors in pneumonology, obstetrics, gynecology, cardiology, orthopaedics, ophthalmology, surgery, urology and neurology, are in the process of appointing them, with those appointments being expected in the next few days. Second, contractors. Unfortunately not all contractors can be permanent. There are specific budgetary possibilities each year, as are specific priorities for the needs of health structures. We are running, we have been disembarked in a race of roads to cover pensions and departures from the system, and we are putting the subsidiary medical and nursing staff in priority so as to enable these posts to be converted into permanent posts. Thirdly, the movements of personnel to which you are referring are, together with the ancillary staff, the immediate solutions we have to cover deficits and gaps. The implementation of recruitment of regular staff will reduce these practices over time. Fourth, hospital service. We will soon move on to the necessary changes not only to the organization of the Rethymnon Hospital, but also to the other hospitals of the predominant state, which will improve the operation of the hospital and upgrade the services provided. We all know that medical technology is evolving, new services are being created and these services must be readily available to our fellow citizens. This is what we will do by ensuring that modern organograms are drawn up in the hospitals of the country. Finally, beds in intensive care units. The Rethymno Hospital has seven beds in the intensive care unit, which are operating at the moment, two more beds are in operation and we will do everything possible to upgrade the operation not only of the intensive care unit, providing equipment and human resources, but also anything else that will help upgrade the Rethymno Hospital. Mr. Synatiakis, we're talking about acts and facts. At the end of 2020, the Rethymno Hospital will be staffed with additional staff: eighteen doctors of various specialties from two notices, twenty-two persons of nursing, paramedical and other staff following an AACC notice. By hiring this health staff of forty people we are significantly strengthening the operation of the hospital. We know, however, that further support is needed, because the needs are great, and there is another issue, that, in addition to increasing needs, we have the staff who are slowly retiring and leaving the National Health System. The pandemic of the coronary faced it as an opportunity to cover needs and gaps which the National Health System had in the short term. I will repeat once again that we have incorporated six thousand ancillary staff into the health system, whereas our initial design was two thousand people, including more than seven hundred doctors from various specialities. A few words, concrete actions, and concrete results, highlighting in the clearest way the political will of our Government to strengthen the National Health System with health workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u59	Thank you. Mr Colleagues, I understand that he has raised a lot of issues for you, but I very much ask you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u60	Mr President, in Crete we say - I suppose in other areas - you are building up intangible and intangible. The reality, however, is quite different. The government continues to live in a parallel universe of its own. It's her right. The Minister says that the results of her policy will be seen in a long time. Now it's the problem, Minister. Now that life, health and the safety of the people are at risk, we should have fast track procedures, as you are also used to when it comes to cutting wages, pensions, labour rights, which you are doing with legislative acts. Why is the legislative act not applicable here, namely here and now, to recruit the necessary medical, nursing and other staff for hospitals, health centres, for all public units? Check the private sector. But you don't. Why? You said this yourself because there are budgetary commitments, Minister. You have been completely subjected, like SYRIZA in previous years to the European Union, to the troika, to all of them, in any case, who drink from the medal of the Greek people. These notices you mentioned, you know, go with turtle rate. This is where recruitment is still pending for more than six months. Right now, the hospitals should have been ready and full of staff to cope with the next wave of the pandemic. Each call is certainly welcome, but at the moment no one has been appointed, for example, since the February announcement. Yes or no? Tell us. Since February 2020, no one has. The new notice you mentioned to strengthen the hospital with nine doctors, of which four relate to positions of directors not only, but also poses risks of further loss of staff in the nursing establishment, taking into account pensions, which will arise along the way. Four vacant pathologists, three anaesthetics, one pneumonologist, four TLP physicians, on the basis of even the inadequate organogram of the hospital in 2012, which has not captured the real needs that are much larger. Indeed, due to the lack of anaesthetics, the possibility of interventions has been significantly reduced, resulting in the anticipation of regular surgery. For example, regular surgery lists on September 7 included seven hundred ninety-two patients and two hundred sixty-one for gynecological interventions, several of whom are forced to go to Heraklion Hospital or Chania in order to operate, naturally causing other hospitals additional lists. No Clin ICU was opened in the hospital during the pandemic. These two extra ITH beds you say are not yours of the Narch Foundation, to be honest with what we say. It is the 'Niarch' Foundation, of course, devouring every businessman who - for the soul of his mother, I do not know what he is presenting - and sends meth beds or various machinery to hospitals. What is more, you did not say anything to us - with the recruitment of doctors and the establishment of a new organic ICM doctor's position. The so-called 100 operating IF beds in public hospitals, reported by the Prime Minister in his dictionary, are, in fact, inactive, nonexistent because they are simply not staffed with the necessary staff. I want to say something about the proclamation of pathologists and anaesthetics from the 7th HR. I was expecting something to say about it. This is a debauching, a fragmentary measure from the 7th RCD which does not give a substantial, definitive solution to the problem of the chronic subsistence of the anesthetic parts of Crete between them and Rethymnon. This exclusion of pathologists and anesthetists from the possibility of claiming positions in the ICUs of Crete will never be an incentive to cover the vacancy of the anaesthetic sections. On the contrary, we would say that it would deprive the new IF beds of two basic, necessary specialities, while there is a risk that IF positions would remain vacant as pathologists and anesthetists are the majority of specialized intensive engineers in the IFs. In other words, this is an attempt to manage the results of the sub-financing and sub-delegation policy that everyone has over time responsibilities, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK. The irresponsibility and opportunism of pandemic with fragmentary measures - we insist - with patches, with hoods and a complete lack of planning for the staffing of new IF beds. I make four anestheticists in the minutes of complaints and the Rethymnon Medical Association, hundreds of four anestheticists and the Federation of Hospital Doctors Associations around this issue. In any case, however, Minister, if the government really wanted to strengthen the public health system, it would motivate young doctors to proclaim all the empty organic posts, ensure human hours, decent working conditions, restore the wages of the doctors who have been cut off by over 50%, give the heavy and unhealthy. So here's why your policy is not just unhealthy, it's dangerous. We call on the people in these circumstances to take the case in their hands and to claim a public health system under all conditions, without asterisks with permanent staff, with full staff, with all the medical equipment, health tests and all the people, for IF beds that meet the needs of this difficult situation that is going through the people and the land.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u62	Mr. Synhronakis, you spoke to a mandarin about the high and lower ground. In Crete they say one more thing: The few words sugar and no honey. Health and man wants our respect. So be careful more about what you say. The results of our policy are tangible and I told you that there is specific planning so that we can resolve all the distortions and shortcomings of the past that have come from a long time ago. You spoke of a notice which was launched in March and within six months it has not been completed. Already since this 943 post notice, we have had an appointment FEK in six months, and we have been waiting for more than eighteen months to have doctors in hospitals. So in a short time with the notices we have in progress, we will cover the gaps that exist. Let me remind you that in this period of coronary in addition to all the decisions and actions we have taken and we have increased our availability in coronary beds, we have increased the availability in intensive treatment units exclusively for the coronary throughout the country. We have increased the reference hospitals to ensure that all citizens have access to services that are relevant to the coronary. We now have, as I have said before, created this reserve so that when we get through this pandemic we can be able to complete more quickly the reforms needed in the health system. You talked about a requisition. Let me remind you that we have predicted everything through the acts of legislation that were ratified by law in the Greek Parliament, all the measures that, if we need to take, we will take to deal with the pandemic and order is a weapon. But I would remind you once again that you are confusing the confiscation order, because in the order there is a cost for the state. In any case, we are working with the private sector right now in order to ensure more beds in intensive care units. We do everything we can to deal with this pandemic. You referred to intensive care units. Yes, the Nightmare Foundation has made a donation, will we not accept it? The Greek Parliament, you? He gave a donation of 50 beds to the hospital "SHOIRIA". What does that mean? There was a donation to the state. Yes, all our fellow citizens will benefit from this donation. These donations, the new intensive beds, belong to the Greek people. I am quite surprised that you have referred to intensive beds. And remind you of the...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u63	We don't have doctors, why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u64	I would like to tell you now, for doctors, why I said it before and when I was talking about the Rhodes Hospital, that we have set up five hundred organic positions of qualified NSA doctors and a thousand nursing staff and three hundred specialists to serve intensive care units. This demonstrates the fact that there is a plan, which is being implemented, and within a very short period of time our country will be able to approach the European average of IF beds that are a thousand two hundred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Minister. The third question will be discussed under number 1054/21-9-2020 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Athens: Stop converting the reference hospitals to the virus's dispersion centers". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Also, I would ask you to keep your time, because we still have several questions. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Secretary-General, I would first like to remind you that I am still waiting for the documents from the timely question and application of documents on "Saint Sophia". You are the only Minister of this government who has not responded to this elementary parliamentary work. We'll put it to the rest of the government, if necessary. You are the only case that has happened, Minister, not to bring the documents to the plenary. I've filed them and they're unanswered twice. You're saying you've made six thousand two hundred hires and you're going to move on to another one. At the same time, we have about four thousand departures. We want you to confirm this number. We have two thousand assistants who do not renew their contracts. So, why are we talking? For two hundred people? The situation is unpredictable. As the OENGE tells us at the rate, the one we're going, it's just a matter of time for the Koroni ICUs to run out. Already yesterday, as the OENGE denounced, we lost thirty-nine years old because for one and a half days it was intact. Obviously, we've reached a saturation point. The question is: Are we currently turning hospitals into coronary disposal sites? Because based on complaints about the "Attica" hospital in my area, we have cases of doctors and nurses, there is no quarantine, no quarantine to the staff, because you have no staff to replace it, so that the virus is dispersed into patients and staff. This situation is continuing. I'm going to continue in my denture and the rest of the hospitals, and what exactly is going on? We want concrete answers and no escapades.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, I'm sorry, but you're in danger. You are primarily at risk because you refer to your question that it is tragic in the 21st century and in conditions of peace the age triage exists in the country. Where did you hear that? I'm really surprised, and I'd beg you to withdraw it. We haven't left any of our fellow citizens behind, we haven't left anyone helpless. Anybody who needed an intensive treatment unit from the coronary was available and is available and at any time the health system is able to respond. Mr Arsenis, none of what you say in your question about Attica is accurate unless we should apply your own health protocols. Who told you that ICU should be evacuated? In no case will that be the case. It was done exactly what had to be done. The protocols were followed, traced through molecular control of all nursing and medical staff, alerted those who were not in the hospital and the staff of other clinical subjects to undergo molecular control, as was all the patients of the ICU. Molecular control was negative for all patients and negative for all ICU personnel except for an asymptomatic nurse of the unit. The two positive workers were directly out of work, and after EGE's communication they remained out of work for seven days. The Infections Committee carried out an immediate epidemiological inquiry, where it was not possible to find the route for transmission of the virus. Also, all contacts with the patient were considered as low or moderate exposure. No unprotected contact with the patient was reported, when the workers remained in the workplace with strict compliance with the protection rules. The hospital carried out a review of all staff after four and seven days. Finally, there was scrupulous cleanliness of the space and an intensification of protection measures was decided, and detailed guidance was given to everyone. We are therefore talking about an excellent management of the situation and exemplary cooperation between the administration of the hospital and the National Public Health Agency. This is the reality and you must accept it without, in fact, creating absolutely no problem in the operation of the hospital. That's the truth. You said the health system was moving marginally. From the beginning of August, there has been an increase in the number of hospitalized coronary patients, both in single beds and in intensive care units, what have we done? The self-evident, we increased the reference hospitals. We don't increase the reference hospitals to disperse the coronary. We increase them and give them more simple care beds and intensive care beds to cope with increased cases. What did you want us to do? Can we close hospitals? Aren't we going to serve the world? Should we not serve all our fellow citizens? We have the situation under control and this is due to the measures we have taken. I told you that we increased the benchmarks, we increased the normal hospital beds for coronary alone, we increased the hospitalization beds in the dedicated coronary intensive treatment units, we increased the clinics for suspected coronary hospitalisation, we increased the health centers in which suspect and confirmed cases are handled, we increased molecular coronary control. Today there are more than fourteen thousand, so many people have reached the average daily. We have increased the number of checkpoints to achieve more and faster controls. We have ensured adequacy in personal protective equipment for health workers and patients and we are fully prepared. The measures we are taking have concrete and measurable results. I want to assure you that we are continuing at these rates. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u69	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, are you giving up on us already? Haven't we got to point zero right now? When the ICUs are set, won't we go for some kind of triage? You guys come over here as soon as the 30-year-old girl from a coronary left, because he was out of here one and a half days, and you could ask for what? Can we apologize for that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u71	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u72	It's a complaint from the workers. It's a public complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u73	Since there are the I.T.S.s, how's he left out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u74	It's a public complaint to the hospital "Laiko". You have obviously not been informed, as you have obviously not been informed about Attica, because it is a complaint from the workers that I have read to you. They're not my views. But for you anything escapes the image, everything goes well, it's not true. But you also brought the ministerial decision on 24 September, which goes further. In fact, you are stepping up public hospitals for the benefit of the private. How else can anyone explain it? What you're going to do is specialise in the public hospital in Coronovirus, all the other incidents will go to private practice and for those who have to pay, as hospitalisation will be covered in the private hospitals and not their total hospitalization, if clinical procedures of course agree, while necessary medical procedures, such as haemodialysis, cancer treatments, as provided for, Mr. Undersecretary. When the patient comes out of the ICU, he will return to the public hospital if there are available beds. Are these the solutions you find? Undersecretary, thirty thousand empty organic positions exist in the health system. In practice, you have made a hole in the water. Anything you hired is either gone because of retirement or you don't renew contracts. Thirty thousand jobs cost the public half a billion euros right now for the recruitment to take place. You have given us - you are telling us - EUR 10 billion to the economy for the coronary. You give 12 billion euros to the predators for Hercules, 10 billion euros to armaments. Hey, half a billion euros is not a huge sum in these figures. Give it to me! Make substantial recruitment of permanent staff. Serve the hospitals. Equip the ICUs, instead of just taking all the other clinical ICUs, ICUs and do COVIDs -19, leaving people uncovered with any other disease.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u76	I'm sorry once again. You are confused and completely ignorant. Yesterday the number of blank beds in intensive care units in public hospitals was fifty-five. Tell me some guys he needed meth with a coronary and he didn't. Don't say things that don't apply. You are now coming and you are also telling us that we will reach a point where the system will be filled with incidents and we will be forced to go to an age-old 'triage'. What are you talking about? Where did you hear them? I'm really sorry. I would like to say once again that we have planned to deal with possible adverse development of the disease and to this design is the operation of new intensive treatment units. I would remind you that we increased two hundred units in the National Health System, which did not operate in the previous period, because there was no staff and no equipment. We expand existing units and with the donations we have at our disposal, we further increase intensive care units. At the moment from the five hundred sixty-five that we received as government last July, we have more than nine hundred forty and, as I said in a short time, we will operate intensive treatment units fully, so that our country does not fall short of the European average. I would like to stress once again that we are not going to leave any of our fellow citizens behind. I'll remind you of this. Refer to the first period of pandemic in other countries, where they did not record the dead in the nursing homes and those of the third age. So we didn't leave any of our fellow citizens behind. We have protected them, we will protect them and we will do everything possible to achieve the results we want to get out of this battle as well. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u77	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the tenth question under number 1057/21-9-2020 of a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Prohibition of concerts, continuation of theatrical performances: The suppression of the new government's choices for Koronios". The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will answer. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, because you refer to what other countries do, the European average for health expenditure is 7.5% of GDP. We have less than 5%. If you want to do what other countries do, they have completed organograms in their hospitals. They don't have thirty thousand vacancies in health. They do not have two thousand ancillary staff whose contracts end and who will stay without payroll services and all the others. Enough communication. You may come with the new list of Petsa to cover the gaps in communication that exist, but the real needs are judged in the hospital, what about doctors, what about the nursing staff, how many people we lose. Let's go to the concert topic. It's really showing all the handshake of management. Suddenly the concerts were banned, the theatrical performances continued, without any justification. I invite you to tell me what the reason for that decision was. With the outcry you also banned the theatrical performances throughout Greece, to rectify after that the measure applies to Attica, when all the concerts had been cancelled, people had lost their tickets. A cuff on sloppyness, a funny management! Looks like your goal is really to control. You have a fantasy of uncontrolled unregulated youth. In these areas you ban alcohol. Evidently, if someone doesn't take his mask down, but he's allowed to drink some refreshment, water, anything else he wants, like this doesn't take off his mask. You have this youth fantasy that'll drink alcohol and get away from measures. What is needed is that we need the security measures that are necessary to continue to operate all these activities, such as the concert, the theatrical performance, anything. The coroner won't leave in a week. We need to learn to live with this phenomenon. We must find the'modus vivendi', not the suppression.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u79	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, the title of your question is empirically unacceptable. You are talking about youth repression and that it is the guiding principle of government choices. Let me tell you - and thankfully the Greek people have understood it - that the specific choices made by the government are made in view of protecting the health of the population, for which you seem not to have the slightest sense of responsibility. It is certainly not pleasant to take measures, such as the fortnight suspension of the concerts, but it is necessary. We are trying in every way to get rid of the alternatives, and in this particular case there was no other option. We followed the suggestion made by the National Committee of Experts and, in conjunction with the data we had from other events - a great deal of congratulating people on limited spaces, not respecting minimum distances of reduced use of a mask - we took this necessary measure. And to point out that there is no comparison between concert and theatrical performance, nor with absolute numbers in common, nor with respect to their protocols of conduct. We are therefore discussing two disparate cases. I would also remind you of the measure we took for the concerts is not of a lasting nature. And I would remind you that the space ahead of us, the last three months of 2020, are particularly critical of the development of the pandemic. We do not have the luxury of risk and we are not prepared to play with chances. We will prefer to be unpleasant, but at the same time useful in ensuring the health of the population and we will not allow the pandemic to spread and become uncontrolled, so that at some point we can put an end to the pandemic nightmare. Mr Arseni, you are not more sensitive than us in relation to young people. Let me take your question as a voter's only attempt, because in any other case you should have been with us on the frontline of the battle, giving the right messages at the time when more and more young people are infected by the virus. We see new people invaded in intensive care units. We see more young people in simple treatment beds, which we did not treat in the first phase of pandemic. Therefore, our first choice is to protect young people and our last choice to entertain these people. On the other hand, as far as professionals are concerned, it is logical that they should be concerned, and often complain, about their work being affected, but also about the workers employed by businesses, it is also normal to worry about their work future. The Government has demonstrated by means of acts that it has the political will to give solutions to issues relating to both employers and workers by moving forward and legislating tax exemptions, allowances and other tax reliefs. Be sure that we will continue to do so whenever and wherever necessary in order to ensure, as I said at the beginning, the health of the citizens. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u81	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you say the Greek people have understood it. Obviously, the Greek people understand what is happening and that's why there's the new list of Pechas in order to get the information under control again. To understand what you want from the Greek people and not what is happening. You say that you are too much hasty for young people and you are very concerned about raising cases. Do you really care about young people? The young people of twenty-nine per school class? And you're wondering why the cases are increasing. If you care about young people make these schools 15 persons per class, as provided by the scientific community. Allow them to continue this school year because the way they go, this school year will not go any further. Allow them not to transfer the coronary to their homes to their grandparents and grandmothers. The reality is, since you did not do anything in practice, you turn the coroner into a playground of authoritarianism. It's the playground for every authoritarian where you target the young to show that you're doing something. I'm still telling you. I went to a concert a day before the concert stopped. He was in Gazi in the area of the Municipality of Athens. Identified all chairs per two chairs. Everyone was wearing masks. I've never seen a concert like that before. It was impressive. It was perfectly safe. I personally don't drink alcohol. I guess you'll drink. This concert bans alcohol, but they are allowed to drink anything else. These are ideals, Minister. You have a fantasy that young people have become dangerous. Target the young to show you're doing something. If you want to do something, go to schools and give the space that science defines as having to exist among students, so that schools do not become coronary dissemination sites, as we discussed in the previous question that hospitals are being held. Until then, please, very respect for these young people who are growing up with a dream different to this society that they want to play. And certainly very far from communication management with real needs that need to be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, I would ask your respect for the young people who are currently in intensive care units, are in reference hospitals and give the battle to overcome the coronary. I urge you once again to send the message first, to join the whole society in order to be able to overcome this pandemic, with priority always being given to protecting public health, and to be able to go back to concerts, plays and return to normality. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u85	Thank you, too, Minister. The fourth question will be discussed with No 1047/18-9-2020 in the second question of the Halkidiki-based Radical Left coalition of Mrs Malama to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the subject of 'People in Sithonia and Olympiada feel impeccable after last year's floods'. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, last April Sithonia of Halkidiki was hit once again by floods, thereby jeopardising lives and destroying property and infrastructure. Last November, the Olympiad of Halkidiki was hit hard by murderous floods that lasted for many days and flooded the village and destroyed property. These two regions, Olympiad and Sithonia, live every year in fear of the flood. Of course, you are aware of the case of Olympiad, since last year when the catastrophic floods occurred, you were rushing the ministers with a military helicopter in the region. Fear not only concerns property, but there is a huge risk of ecological destruction, since the streams that reach the village are active in "ELLINIKOS CHRYSOS", while there are depositions of toxic waste at a distance of breath from the village. At the time that you had rushed as a governmental step in Olympiada, you were committed to immediately resolving the incidents and restoring the damage. Your Ministry was represented by the Secretary-General for Infrastructure, who was fully informed of the situation. In the case of Sithonia, you have also received the shouting of agony among the citizens and the mayor, who, by letters, invites you to help him with the works that the municipality needs because the municipality has huge organic and functional gaps and cannot carry out the great projects needed not to flood every year its villages and all the tourist and coastal areas, with enormous danger of course, of course, the lives of people. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. We recall that in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020 Sithonia was found in the warp of extreme weather phenomena. Lives were threatened, property destroyed. We would therefore like to ask you, Minister, what you intend to do to shield the Olympiad region and the Sithonia region from extreme weather conditions. The citizens who live with this fear, the professionals have already seen too many times their struggle to be destroyed and the government promises to rush. To date, however, we have not seen a single project, we have seen nothing work and allow me the expression, not even a scaffolder has worked in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u87	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for your question, because you are raising a broader issue, which we have put to the Ministry a full priority. After all, in the Ministry's strategic plan, the projects of real modernisation of the country are central, and they are also the anti-military projects, which I would say to you, for the first time, we have ensured a great deal of funding from the European Investment Bank. I come to this point and you will allow me to make a clarification, because there is often a misunderstanding even here in Parliament. Therefore, under the laws of "KALIKRATH" and I refer to 3582/2010, as well as "KLITHENI", the powers related to the design, design, construction and maintenance of flooding projects, as well as the responsibilities relating to the cleaning of the rafts, are exercised by the relevant authorities of the region. This has also been confirmed and clarified by the recent document of 30 October 2019 of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. Therefore, the Ministry of Infrastructure has competence only in projects characterised as specific, important projects at national level, since of course the relevant requests are made by the operators. So we move on to the works you have mentioned in your question, especially to the request made by the Municipality of Aristotle. But before that, I would like to refer to something we have done a year ago, on 18 September 2019, when we approved for the Municipality of Aristotle about EUR 800 000 for the restoration of flooding technical works. On 25 June 2020, the Ministry also proceeded with the tender for the construction of Havria, with a budget of EUR 106 million, a project, I think, all of us agree, which, beyond all, also offers counter-flood protection in the wider region of Halkidiki. You can see, then, that the Ministry helps where it needs to be done both in the work of local and regional authorities to tackle natural disasters. Governmental step, as you said, had visited the area you mentioned on 23 November and was headed by the Minister of National Defence and the Secretary General of the Ministry of Infrastructure. At the same time, engineer staircases, as you know, were found in the area to record damage and to make autopsy. The Ministry made a few days later the establishment of an area to restore the impact of natural disasters in Halkidiki Prefecture, and in a short period of time it made two hundred self-consciousness and all this in close cooperation with local institutions. In fact, the mayor of the Municipality of Aristotle, in February, sent and thanked for the direct actions of our services. I can testify to her in the Minutes. As far as the technical bulletin you mentioned is concerned, it has actually been submitted on 20 May and was jointly signed by the services of the Ministry and the Municipality of Aristotle. But this process is not automatic, it takes time and we will soon be able to do what you request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are only referring to the Municipality of Aristotle and not to the fact that you have received nothing from the Municipality of Sithonia. I will submit the letter to you in an outline and allow me to say two, three elements, because it speaks of taking action against destructive physical phenomena in the Municipality of Sithonia and is addressed to you. "Honourable Ministers, as you well know, the Municipality of Sithonia has repeatedly accepted severe weather phenomena, which have brought enormous damage to infrastructures, etc. However, the most basic element is that there are immediate human lives in danger, the loss of which only one miracle to date has saved us and we have not mourned. There are disastrous consequences for the community of Sykia, Toroni, Nikiti, vehicles that have entered the sea and the infrastructures that have been destroyed". "It has been done in order to improve the existing situation, even partially;" the Mayor of Sithonia asks. ‘Nothing’, it completes. Until when do we believe that God will be with us and save us, without us doing anything? And then he asks for your help, because no one listens to him. So I'm going to the next one. Citizens are tired of words, Minister. The municipalities are struggling for the fact that there are no mature works, they do not have the power and the means to perform them. Every year they ask for the same and the same. Even though it is not your responsibility, it would be useful for you and those who are listening to us to know that, for the specific disasters you mentioned, neither the farmers nor the professionals nor all the citizens and the Municipality of Proudidas, who have been mourning victims, nor the Municipality of Aristotle. I have already discussed the problem thoroughly with mayor Sithonia and mayor Aristotle. I would therefore like to submit to you in the Minutes and give you a handful of two important dossiers. The first is the file of the mature and comprehensive study of the Municipality of Aristotle on the flood protection infrastructure of Olympiad. It was prepared by the municipality itself in 2016 by the previous municipal authority, submitted to regional government, which unfortunately did nothing, which is why we are debating this here today. The new mayor tried to send her to your office, because in regional government they still don't care. Please transfer it to the technical services of the Ministry, it is a ready study and see how you can implement it by pressing the district and the decentralised administration to finally do their job. We also know that the Municipality of Aristotle has sent you the detailed and complete technical record of damages from the floods last November to disburse money and restore disasters. We would like you to tell us, in particular, when you intend to start these procedures, when the money will be sent because they have not been sent, because a year has passed and literally nothing has been done. The mayor tells you himself in letters. In addition to this, the map of the river basin risk management plan for the water part of central Macedonia is included. On this map, which is now called upon to manage the region and the Ministry of the Environment is the following incomprehensible and paradoxical: the Sithonia region and the Olympiad region within this map are not characterised as high-risk flood zones. But every year these areas are flooding. The result of this poor drafting of this map is never giving money for flooding projects in these areas, which, after flooding, are regarded as emergency areas, then a celebration to say exactly how things are.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u91	Madam Colleague, please complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u92	So we ask you, knowing that the state's powers in the field of flooding are unjustly fragmented, if you intend at last to act in coordination with all actors, in order to do flooding work in Sithonia and Olympiad. People live in fear and if Halkidiki is facing extreme times again without being shielded, then the responsibility, Minister, will be borne solely by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u94	I think that what I need to make clear once again is, as I have told you by the laws, that the Ministry only finances what projects have been designated as national projects. That doesn't mean we're retiring. But here there are certain stages. It needs to be completed by the Ministry's services, and that is what I told you since 20 May, that is to say the control of joining the ILO, we need to obtain approval from the Ministry of Development to see if we have these resources. The other solution that we usually do is that there are programmatic agreements with the municipalities, we finance them, and they do the flooding. But you realise that there is no magic wand and we cannot automatically finance all the flooding projects. As far as autopsies are concerned, I will check what you are saying, but I have been informed by the services that more than two hundred autopsies have been done, that several beneficiaries have been given money, that they have entered the housing assistance procedure that gives 60% of the affected person and 40% of the interest-free loan. And this process is progressing properly, as it has been in Evia, as it is now going on in Cardica. Reality is simple. Anti-military works are needed throughout the country, small or large. As I told you before, we have secured for the five major motorways money from the European Investment Bank and these projects will start immediately. But what I can tell you is, with certainty, that every time there is a matter, the Ministry is about to check the procedures, see the studies and finance them. This does not mean, however, that both the region and the municipalities in question do not have one responsibility, because here we see the phenomenon many times putting all the responsibilities on the central government. The substance is one: Anti-military works must be done with priority. We have the priorities with the money we have received from the EIB and there any additional flooding projects are done, they have to be done locally, and that's where we'll see what we need to do first. Surely Halkidiki has been hurt, we know that, and in cooperation with the local players, and with the municipalities we will see how these issues will be dealt with. Closed up, I have to say something else. Countless works and the issues of these natural disasters have not only been done in the past year, they have been done before. The point is, then, that always showing the government and putting the blame down does not help, because we see that all these flooding phenomena create huge issues and that is why we are one - one to deal with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u95	The map of regions you will not forget, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. We pass to the sixth question under number 1055/21-9-2020 on a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Event to Garden Dimitrous means exclusion of the inhabitants of western Athens in green, recreation and clean air". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Dygalakis, will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the situation in western Athens is well known. We have the transported pollution from the Triumph, we have the Gender dump, which was not only burned the other day, it often burns, but its daily use also brings a terrible deterioration in quality of life. We have an area that faces significant environmental degradation. As a minimum counterweight to this deterioration, we have in the Haidari area the Botanical Garden of Diomedes, we have both Tritsis Park and some other infrastructure. In this basic infrastructure for Haidari and for a wider area of Athens, the EMCDDA, which manages the Botanical Garden of Dimitrous, decided to book a ticket. It is a place where every Sunday is over a thousand people there, families mainly with children. It's their way out, their breath. In fact, in this degraded region of Athens you are cutting off the last breaths in people and families. So I'd really like you to confirm this information about if you're about to get a ticket. How can you justify this, and if you condemn it as political leadership, what measures will you take to cancel it, and what alternatives the National Kapodistrian University has considered, with what criteria it has proceeded to this option and if it fails to meet the financial needs for the management of the Botanic Garden and if it is prepared to grant it to the municipality to continue to operate with free access to all residents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u98	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Comrade, really the Garden Dimmedus for the inhabitants of western Athens is a green lung and is very important for the education of young people and the environmental awareness of the visitors of the Garden. So I fully agree with you on this issue. However, it really seems to me that so many inaccuracies have occurred in half the page. I am referring specifically to the following. You are talking about a decision by the NRP which is out of place and time. You say that the Garden of Dimitrous is under the management of the EMCDDA. You're asking me if I'm condemning the decision of the NRP. You ask me if I know what alternatives the NRP has considered before taking this decision and you conclude that it would be the NRP prepared to grant the Garden Dimitrous to the Municipality of Haidari. For your information, the Botanic Garden of July and Alexander Dimimedes, according to the decree that ratified the concession covenant and then its organization, is a legal person under private law which is not managed by the Kapodistrian University. He has autonomous financial management, runs by an administrative committee involving the Rector of the EMCDDA as President, but also participates the Governor of the National Bank, participates the President of the Areos Ice, the Director of the National Heritages of the Ministry of Finance and the respective professor of the NRC. So you could have asked your question to any of the others. To tell you at this point, of course, what you are saying at the end, if the NRP would be prepared to grant, as I have said, does not belong to the NRP, the Garden Dimitrous, the legal person I mentioned earlier and, of course, the concession would be contrary to the objectives of the owner and cannot be done. But you are actually giving a dramatic tone. You're talking about blocking West Athens residents. It is - if you don't know - a symbolic ticket on Sundays only. The rest of the week is free access. In fact, this symbolic price of one euro only applies to inhabitants over fifteen and less than sixty-five years old, that is, free access for children and the elderly, free access for the most deprived and also free access for soldiers and students. As we are all sensitive to the environment, we must take care of it. When this Garden accepted on Sundays and weekends a few thousand visitors, of course, despite the great awareness shown by the local residents and being careful when they visit the Garden, you understand that they need increased costs to keep the Garden in the condition that it should be. Let me also tell you that the income of the legal person, the legacy, was primarily interest on the deposits left by the depositor and that deposits, due to the fall in interest rates, of around EUR 450,000 that was revenue in 2015, fell to EUR 166 000 in 2018. However, I can inform you that these days, at this time because of the pandemic, access to the Park is free and always with protection measures, already taken by the administration of the legal person by the National Kapodistrian University for the safety of visitors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you know this question has been tabled for the second time. We submitted it to the Ministry of the Interior, which informed us that it was unresponsible and that we had to testify to the Ministry of Education, as the Garden manages the NRP. So I think you should solve this within the government, it's not something that we can manage. For the substance of your topic, I reiterated that the space is used mainly on Sunday, there is aggregation of the largest number of people over a thousand people, mainly families with children. And you put the price on that day. And it is reported that he is entering for the ages of more than 15 and less than sixty-five years. But, of course, children don't get there, only grandparents and grandparents do it, and their parents do it. Families are charged with the price. And there are families who will tell us 'all right and what's going on to give these two, three euros'. But there are families in the area who do not have this possibility, who need the free infrastructure, who do not have the money, who do not have the basic needs. And it's not just in this area, to be honest, it's all over Greece. So, let us at least tell the EDPS' dean, who chairs the committee, to change his course, unless you welcome it, because from what I have understood so far, you do not condemn it, you consider it reasonable, you justify it. Is that the government's attitude? Do you welcome that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u103	Mr Colleague, you have continued to ask me when it is not about the EMCDDA, as I have answered in my prototype. It also involves a symbolic price of one euro. One may even buy a card annually for twenty euros per person and only for individuals between fifteen and sixty - five years old and since they are not indestructible. You also referred to the municipality in your question, which you did not say here, but it might well have been that the municipality could have contacted the administration of the legal person and that the municipality of Heidari can provide some cleaning services so that they can see if there is this price for the symbolic of one euro being removed in collaboration with the Municipality of Heidari. I always remind you that the whole pandemic period of access is still free for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u104	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with our fourth question under number 1044/17-9-2020 of the First East Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzides to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct rehabilitation of the offended/involved teachers". The current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, as you well know, tens of thousands of teachers of general education throughout the country took part in the recent ADP classification process. The procedure concerns the permanent filling of the vacancies of primary and secondary education and the fulfilment of the operational needs of this year's training levels under the 1GI/2019 and 2GI/2019 notices. However, due to technical problems, for which teachers themselves are not responsible, but the malfunctioning of the problem electronics environment over ten thousand people have been placed apart from both the specific procedure for their possible appointment and their participation in the replacement tables for three years. In fact, there has recently been an extrajudicial service from a group of thirty-three teachers, which restores the issue and strengthens the need to resolve this injustice. Among the ten thousand unjust and unjusted teachers there are people with severe disabilities or other serious health problems, thousands of people with families, public officials with a significant pre-service in the field of education, people who, as the only means of biopolitics, have their work in the schools of all the levels of education in our country. In view of the above, I ask you, Minister: do you intend to correct this injustice and to restore immediately the ten thousand teachers of general education, including them even now both in the appointment tables and in the recruitment tables for the current school year? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u106	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u107	Thank you. Mrs Apajidis, you asked the question to the Minister, because today I could not, I would come to her position. It is a very important issue, which we have discussed many times in the House, as it had emerged - if you remember - last year with special treatment the same thing as the paradox. Your question concerns the recruitment process in general education. Before I come to your question on behalf of me to give a little bit of the basic parameter, at least as we see it in the Ministry that it is currently dominating. It is important, I think, that we should not forget that for the first time in a decade, permanent appointments of teachers have been carried out through ASP. It is a positive development, there have been thousands of teachers waiting for them every year to support the public education system by supplementing them by thousands, as we see in the number of credits. Already in special treatment last year, four and a half thousand were appointed, so these people started out and we wish them a good career in public education. Now, the provisional evaluation tables for both the 1GI and the 2GI you mentioned have been published in general, but also the 1GI/2020 and 2G/2020 and this despite the objective difficulties and a malfunction that obviously existed in the ASP because of COVID -19, but I think we can leave this behind as something that was preceded. The great picture, then, is that the assignments proceeded. The same big picture is that we will also have appointments to general education, five thousand fifty-five at some point in 2021, after finishing work and the ADP, and of course there will be another five thousand two hundred fifty, a total of ten thousand five hundred in general education. You know that the issue of the transgression, because we have discussed it too many times, it is an APA issue, has been answered by the Interior Minister here, and it is a matter on which since the provisional tables have been issued, because you have spoken about a question of correction or integration, we have already proceeded with subsistence recruitment. What has happened this year is that twenty-four thousand nine hundred alternates were hired from these tables, because we are obliged - and this is very good - to have a public table to recruit from 5 September, seven thousand other three hundred sixty-eight. A third phase of subsidization is also followed in the first days of October. The recruitment process of alternates has already proceeded. At the same time, and for the cases of objections, because we understand that in the total of sixty-seven thousand seventy-seven-seven applications, we have several objections, and we will see how many of them are on the way, and the cases of the offense are, therefore, not cases which have been excluded from appointment. These are things that the AACC will already assess, what it will do with these cases of participants and participants who have objections. It is only from the period of the alternates of the current ones, namely 2020. I am not saying that there is something small or something less subtle to be able to work for so many months, ten months, for preparation and for the biopolitics. We are simply talking about something that had to be 'watched'. It's the vice-president's procedure. In fact, I believe that what we are winning within the year, the appointments, the provisional lists of alternates, and the vindication of cases that have already been mentioned, which are already almost aware of the results of their objections from the AACC, will be a development that will end this situation, which was not really pleasant during the year. That's all for starters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u108	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully. I believe that your will to resolve this issue is not moving in the direction of a real solution. There is a skin approach to the problem from the Ministry. It is necessary, however, to put an end to the insecurity and anguish of thousands of unjusted teachers now. We think it is incomprehensible to destroy the lives of so many people, who are acting as a public minister and a spiritual mentor of our children, for just 3 euros. These people have supported Greek society for over ten years, even in the most remote areas of our country, while there was a degrading of their wages due to monuments and while they were away from their families. Furthermore, it is not possible for thousands of teachers to stay not only out of the appointment process, but also outside temporary recruitment tables, even for one year, when any intake, in fact, leads them to a hostage status, unemployed and without income to support their family and home, under conditions of continued insecurity and economic tolerance. Also, deprivation of this service, even for one year, will lead them to downsizing their position in potential recruitment and appointment tables. Finally, it is not an honest political and human attitude to turn thousands of people into a ball of a special Ping-Pong game, on-going transfer and decommissioning responsibility from the government to ASEAN and from ASEAN to the government. And all this for just three coins of one euro! The solution is one and it must be rampant for us at Mera25: Immediate restoration of injustice in the face of teachers and their integration into current recruitment and appointment tables. In your hand is to hear the cry of agony of thousands of teachers and, in consultation with the Ministry of the Interior and the ASAP itself, to find an immediate solution, a solution that will cover at the same time some of the existing gaps in public education, while contributing to the shielding of the environment, regarding the health and safety of pupils and teachers in pandemic conditions, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u110	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u111	Mrs Apajidis, I listen with interest to all the arguments. Obviously, living in a reality - and not in a parallel reality - no one can recognize that, at the moment, the people who were outside live in a pressure and in a great anxiety about what will happen with the result of the objection, which, due to the volume of applications... We said it's a hundred sixty-seven thousand. We understand the percentage of objections. We'll wait anxiously. In spite of the adversities - and I repeat, let us not close the effort in the circumstances of COVID - the provisional evaluation tables were given and we proceeded with the alternates. I should like to make a correction here, and I must point out it, because it is important to note and to note. Here in the House the reduction in the time of exclusion from the tables was voted. It's not three years, it's two years. I am saying this for your personal note because you mentioned three in the question. It's been reduced to two. He had become three of the SYRIZA government, Mr. Gavroglou. We have reduced it because the tables have indeed been applied three years too delayed in updating academics and other social and family criteria. So we'll be waiting. Because anything else would be impossible right now and I have to be honest when I speak from the Step of the House. We've already moved on to the recruitment of substitutes. We are talking for over thirty-two thousand people, who - I repeat - for the first time so early and as a sign of respect for family planning have learned where they are going. In fact, they took office in schools and not in the training directorates. All of this in a context, so that we can put the water in the groove and solve many distortions that existed in the area of replacement, by appointment now. And with the good of the AACC to give the results to general education. So, always with realism and commitment to the result, we have also moved on to the recruitment of alternates, and we hope that the objections from the AACC will be brought to an end, so that the good and people can be appointed and put into a series of family, academic and service, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u112	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the fifth, with number 1065/21-9-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The tragic situation created during the third year of implementation of the two-year compulsory school in kindergartens". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u113	Madam President, Minister, we have tabled too many questions about preschool education as a JRC. The last one was, in fact, last June, with which we called on the government a few months before the completion, in accordance with the law in force, of the application of the two-year compulsory pre-school education this year finally to ensure that this year's school year is effective. The Government of June, through your position - you have responded and then - assured and reassured that 'and next year we will continue', as you said, 'with projects and not with words of our commitment to two-year pre-school education'. "Big bite," says the people, "a great reason not to say." Because at the beginning of the new school year the reality of pre-school education today confirms our fears and concerns about how, but also about how, in what circumstances, that is, all kinds of infants compulsory, as the law says, two years in kindergarten. Finally, what the government has done, like all the previous ones - in order not to blame them on others - proved to be minimal and inadequate in the face of today's needs for all children two years in kindergarten. So, on the one hand, in five major municipalities, first of all in the largest municipality of the country, the Municipality of Athens, the Municipality of Palithea, Neos Smyrni, and also in the Municipality of Sicily - Naples, in one of the largest urban complex in Thessaloniki, was postponed for the year - and we say, we - the implementation of the two-year compulsory kindergarten for all children. On the other hand, in many of the other municipalities, especially urban centres, thousands of children are stacked - even twenty-five toddlers - in inappropriate areas, in corridors and in those cages called kibo. You'll tell me, how would it be otherwise? It could not be otherwise, when the institutionality of the two-year pre-school education by SYRIZA in February 2018, as well as your management since 2019 - half of you have been responsible for it, you share responsibility with SYRIZA and calendars - it was not accompanied by you, nor by SYRIZA, either by funding or by a project to build up modern kindergartens or by permanent appointments of teachers and other staff. So, Minister, we will not stop claiming, but ask you what measures you intend to take, give you money, give you a generously extraordinary state funding, in order to finally ensure these basic conditions and conditions, in order to teach all the children of the Greek people, as they deserve, in kindergartens: there are fifteen infants in the classroom, there are suitable rooms, modern buildings, permanent educational staff, permanent cleaners, that is, everything they need to go to a normal modern school today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u115	Mr Delis, we have indeed talked many times about the issue of two-year-old pre-school education and I know it is your concern. We have had a number of discussions - I think - on the substance. So I'm actually going to stay. The truth is that I will try to respond to the equilibrium objections you raised in the question, but I will explain why I think they are isolating anyway. With regard to the issues you raise - and building and cleaning - we have answered many times that the government and self-government are giving a common face to the child and the parent, who sends the child to the public kindergarten. Therefore, on the part of cleaning staff and on the increase in hours, which cleaners through the EUR 28 million - which the Ministry of Interior gave above - can clean more hours and more rooms, a positive step has been taken. As well as the specific provisions that have been voted in the middle of COVID in order to enable municipalities to make short-term contracts, in order to strengthen cleaning staff, it is a set of provisions that can be given on the issue of cleanliness. For building you know very well that magic wands are not enough either, dedication to building rooms at one time, especially when we talk about a multitude of actors. I'll mention the numbers that the numbers are invincible as an argument. So let's see how many municipalities we're going to get in or inherited - if you like - from the obligability of two-year-old SYRIZA. In July last year, therefore, a total of forty - not one, not two, nor five - had to implement two - year - old pre-school education and many of them last year had declared themselves and weakness in July to apply the two - year - old pre - school. And of them - it was sixty-five at that time, if I'm not mistaken - thirteen people took over the application for 2019-2020. You know that. We've already discussed the number. This year another twenty-seven had to be added. So imagine that in the period 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 we should have a hundred forty-three municipalities. The number's too big. But at the moment we are talking about the five who do not apply the two-year pre-school. And if we talk about each one separately, we will see that the particular issues of each region have really made it impossible to implement two-year-old pre-school. We and we prioritise the implementation of both the two-year period for both the pedagogical and the psychosocial imprint that it has on the infants who are watching. The figures are indeed indicative of effort. On the other hand, let us go to legislative initiatives. Because you said that 'big bite...' or something like that, I would say, both for the words and for the actions which I consider to be indicative. L.467/2020 in Article 24 facilitates municipalities to lease real estate for purposes and two-year pre-school education to cover school accommodation needs 2019-2022 directly and without auction, on the basis of a public invitation. L.4690/2020 in Article 24 allows LAGs for 2020 to provide pre-school education rooms and equipment with the flexible possibility of negotiating for the implementation of the two-year pre-school period. So what does it do to them? It makes it easier for them to obtain the housekeepers from the municipalities. Because you mentioned the kibos, these are the heavy type that, anyway, are placed and it is a solution so that you can then build a school, which is not done - you know it very well - not in two or three years' time. We need to talk to the municipalities - and we do - about what needs to be done on the school roof. But it's a priority. And L.4722/2020 gave an extra opportunity for the new school year to use the municipalities, i.e., available rooms from municipal kindergartens and kindergartens to use, to start our children's preschool. These facilities were also requested by the CEDEFOP itself and were directly and in cooperation with the relevant ministries. I think, Madam President, that I can then go on in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u116	Mr. Delis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u117	Thank you. I have kept, Minister, from your answer, the words 'isotropic objections'. They're neither isotopes nor complaints. It's the reality and I'll prove it to you right now. First of all, cleanliness, the issue of cleanliness in schools and kindergartens. At the moment, cleaners working in public schools and kindergartens are nine and a half thousand and school units are thirteen thousand. No one needs to know Mathematics to realize that there are cleaners shortages. That is why cleaners and cleaners are now being forced to pour out literally, cleaning up huge buildings and too many rooms. We're closing this. As we have seen, Minister, this course of application of this famous compulsory two-year pre-school education was specified in our view and, at that time, we anticipated it in the relevant debate carried out by Mr Gavroglou. And it was specified because the government of SYRIZA, but also the current government of the New Democracy, did not only foresee the need - as we have said - for state funding to implement this provision of the law - a law needs to be written, and money must also be implemented and needed for it, so that new kindergartens can be set up in order to appoint permanent teachers, assistant staff and others - but also the government of your own and the SYRIZA government have done something even worse. You have reduced the public investment budget for the building of kindergartens, nursery buildings. By 50 million, SYRIZA reduced him for 2019 and by 50 million, you in the PPC budget to build kindergartens in 2020. Not only did you not give any extra money as they needed, but you even deducted that money to build kindergartens. Now, if this is a cause and not a very specific reality, or a levelling-up, I am very sorry, but you are the ones who are levelling the rights of these children with your policy. And you have the nerve - because you're about to come here and tell us that kindergarten is not built from one moment to the next, that we don't have sticks. You know, Minister, your regular kindergarten will not be built forever and a lifetime of these children will be at best in kibo. And like this, we have reached the end of this year - it is assumed - a third year of implementation of the measure in many cases that pre-school treatment of infants will literally touch the limits of misery or be excluded from this compulsory - I repeat - pre-school treatment of thousands of infants not in the five municipalities which, in any case, do not apply, but in other areas where it is applied otherwise. For example, in Heraklion, Crete, at the moment we're talking more than two hundred children don't go to kindergarten, because while you and the Municipality of Heraklion, Crete, also need thirty two new rooms to operate this measure, you finally only operated the eighteen and these are doubtful suitable rooms. The same is happening in Thessaloniki. The 22nd Preschool of Thessaloniki still did not open for this year, as in Menidi and Petroupolis and elsewhere. All these children, Minister, remain and wait in their homes until they are placed in the courtyards of the primary school, the high school, the high school of high school, those gypsies of colorful cages - because these are kibos are not better - to stack up within them up to twenty-five puppies - you see schools - for kindergartens, in music and visual rooms or even in gyms along with mice, such as at the gym in the municipal school of Depo in Thessaloniki, or there are still kindergartens in the basement of the schools, next to the burner, Madam Minister, such as the 26th Preschool of Thessaloniki housed in the 40th Municipal School of Thessaloniki in the center of the city just next to the Nairino square. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And all this, in the circumstances of a pandemic which, therefore, the safety of teachers, parents and children, had to be the first priority for the state and not this one-toned invoking individual responsibility. Finally, to tell you: In 1/100, you could only give kindergartens of what your government gives big entrepreneurs with incentives, tax exemptions and a whole range of subsidies, and this could have been done with compulsory pre-school education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u118	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u119	I'm hanging up. But neither do you nor SYRIZA have such priorities. And you know why? And let's tell you. Because your policy, like SYRIZA and the European Union, is that pre-school education is intended to serve the harmonisation of working and family life, that is to say, to make it easier for women simply to go to work. It's not just for us. It is mainly the right and need of the child to pre-school education for full psychosomatic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u120	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u121	Mr. Delia, you used the cause. You said it was wrong the isotopeic cause. So what you said about the 50 million reduction was untrue. Please note why. Why did you say that this line was reduced? Didn't you say it was reduced by 50 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u122	Public Investment Project.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u123	So it didn't decrease. It has been transferred - and has not been abolished or reduced - to the co-financed part of the PPP of PPPI and even with a larger budget per school year than in 2019. This year there has been an increase of 104 million. Because you spoke about the money given by the Ministry, I would remind you that today they were only voted on and increased 133 million credits, so that new educational assistants could be recruited for the third phase of subsidization. As I started before with legislative actions and because you want more proof of the economic aspect, I would remind you, therefore, that our commitment to two-year pre-school is given and is not comparable to other governments, especially that government which inherited us without finding the infrastructure and solutions, 15 million has been provided for twenty-six projects, 12 projects with the implementation body of the SIP concerning the territory, a total of 7 million. It is a total of thirty-eight deliverables with a budget of over 22 million. This concerns the CIS and PTS. I have pointed out what happened today with the allocations of 133 million. It was last week and the 200 million - you remember it here in the House - which will, in any case, also help for the oligomenous contracts of substitutes covering vulnerable groups. And these cover children who are in two-year pre-school, intake of substitute kindergartens, as well as the part of the full-day enlargement. This year we had two important elements. Firstly, we also had the widening of access to the full-day, lifting of conditions for kindergarten and primary school. The statistics so far tell us that parents will trust the full-day kindergarten, and that gives us pleasure. Another, which is more about digitisation, was about the electronic recording of infants, which was done for the first time, and even we had a number, if I'm not mistaken, over eighty-five thousand infants who took advantage of this possibility. I don't put it all in the same tank. It's completely different. Some are regulators, some have to do with the good application of two-year-old pre-school. However, the fact that at the moment they have entered two-year-old pre-school education - with the benefits you mention and nobody can question - three hundred and twenty-seven of the thirty-two municipalities is something that is undeniably important. The fact that we have brought all these legislative initiatives to facilitate implementation is also something that I think cannot be called into question. It's a parliamentary action. Also, the fact that we have given financial support through the Public Investment Programme to facilitate implementation, I think I have brought it to you here with data. We will therefore continue to support the municipalities that have remained to introduce two-year-old pre-school. It will not be easy, because we are talking about municipalities in the large urban centres. There are no rooms. We'll have to find ways to find rooms so that the two-year-olds can go. For the cases you mentioned in Thessaloniki, you know very well that the Regional Director, Mr. Koptsis, and the training staff there are doing day-to-day effort, so that, especially in cases where we have a bad development, the basement as you say, etc., we can find other solutions that will suit children, do not need to travel to the kindergarten to which they have to teach, but at the same time, at the same time, that this quality is also attributed to the public education that they need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u124	Thank you, too, Mrs. Undersecretary. We shall now proceed to the last question for today's sitting. An eighth question will be discussed under number 1058/21-9-2020 on the second question from MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Koronovius impact in the 2nd Petropolis High School: The government oligopoly leads to social unrest". The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr Zacharakis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Undersecretary, you have anyway had the protests today on your visit to the Directorate of ICM and III of Athens. You know the issues that arise with Petroupoli and West Athens. What we had there is a case that was too late for the Ministry to investigate and, in fact, for a day or two, you were just inactive even though the case was at school. What remains, however, is that as schools close one after another in the region remains the issue of terrible confrontation. Petroupoli and other regions of western Athens have twenty-seven people per class. It's impossible to protect these children. It is impossible to protect the educational process. It is fatal to have the stumbling-up of the smooth development of school year. We put their children, their families, grandparents and grandparents at great risk. At the same time, a huge proportion of these children are in sewage, in rough rooms, in lobby rooms, since there are no other rooms, in gyms divided into three, etc., at the same time they have not been recruited in cleanliness, at the same time there is no sanitary material for protecting children, at the same time there is no free diagnosis test, if a child has flu or coronary if it has the common cold or coronary, if an instructor is sick and there are other cases in his class. These basics. I want you to commit to what you are doing here, because the situation at the moment is deadlocked, and it seems willing, in the end, to be negligent on your part, which benefits private education at the expense of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u127	Mr. Arseni, if I'm not mistaken, your question was for the 2nd Petropolis High School. I guess you want me to answer that. More generally, I can comment on whether we prefer some solutions to public education. I will also get some information from what I have already mentioned, and I think that those who see us at the moment can also assess it. I will repeat and I will not stop repeating this because if I do not do so, I will not have credited the enormous effort made by the training managers, the training managers, the regional directors and all our executives everywhere in Greece to achieve what has never been done, which is self-evident to the substitutes, to go earlier than ever. Here's the numbers. Thirty-two thousand on September 6th, never happened before. That's because you said about the welfare issue for public education. The provision for public education is therefore to make sure that the deputy is there in time and when there are new gaps - which are actually forming new gaps because teachers are ill or belonging to vulnerable groups - that you go quickly at that time to cover the gaps. You said about cleaning up. I repeat that because it is an issue that is in the municipalities and the Ministry of the Interior, I have to quote what has been done. In this year's cleaning staff, with the increase in the budget of 28 million, with the improvement of contracts so that it is full five thousand hours, if I am not mistaken, and the rest of the cleaning staff are part-time, with the opportunity of the municipalities to make use of cleaning staff that are not currently working on other services that may not work, such as the CAP, or the few-monthly contracts that can be made for cleaning staff, we can find the gold incision so that we all feel safe within the school space. I would remind you that for the school sector in absolute coordination with the COVID Committee -19 and the school sub-committee - there have been also directives, as well as protocols. I'm going to the point of your question about the 2nd Petroupoli High School, because I don't want to leave it unanswered. Because your question, at least the original one, the one we have received, has several inaccuracies, which I think are very important for the world as well. Why should we not create not just panic, we must, through the accountability that this parliamentary procedure has to explain to parents at the moment when they hear what has happened and what will happen in any case. So the education department in its document states that on 13 September - not a school working day - a teacher in his home felt unwell. In the morning he contacted EDEY, went to the hospital, where he was subjected to tests, X-ray and COVID tests. He was recommended by doctors to stay at his house for three days, or until the 16th. On the 16th of the month the results of the test, which showed that they were positive and, of course, the results provided for in the EAFRD Protocol, were applied. During this period before diagnosis, from the 13th to the 16th of the month, the teacher did not go to school nor came to contact with his colleagues or students. Of course, he didn't contact the next time. With the test results he stayed at his house. In your question - you correct me then in your dentistry, if something is inaccurate from what I'm saying - you say that there was not even a trace. Scanning and all the competent authorities have been informed, as required, at the time of - on 12 September - a COVID-19 management protocol of the EAEC. Madam President, I will stop here and continue in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u128	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, it is a pity that you stopped because it was very interesting what you say, but it is not accurate. Indeed, the instructor on the 16th of the month was found to be positive on the coronary. Obviously, before the 13th of the month, he was teaching in the room.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u130	He wasn't even in school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u131	If he wasn't in school, explain why on the 21st of the month you closed that class. Why, if it hadn't been contaminated?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u132	Finish and I'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u133	Very good. The tracking was done a lot after. Whatever measure you have taken, you have taken it after 21. You will tell me "what is two, three, four days?" For the coronary, there's a lot of them. You haven't answered what's going on with the cleaners. Is it true that in most schools there is a cleanser, which many times works in more than one school, which is called on to meet huge needs, making a superhuman effort? As far as subsistence recruitment is concerned, of course you're doing better than your predecessors did, but there was no coronary at that time. However, what you have done is not very important either. The Court of Justice of the European Union in March 2020 decided that any posts covering fixed and continuous needs should have indefinite contracts. You are obliged to implement this directive. You knew her long before you made the decision about the deputys. So I cannot give you congratulations because you have covered more than the oldest gaps in the school organisational chart, again with day-to-day and even with short-term contracts. What I can tell you is that you are obliged to meet all the needs of permanent workers with contracts of indefinite duration and then, because of the circumstance, you are obliged to divide the departments into 15 pupils so that there is real protection. Then yes, I will congratulate you on hiring the deputys for the emergencies, because that is why you need the alternates. But the impressive thing I would like you to say - and if you are aware of it - is how it is now that the prosecutor, by oral order, is calling for the occupations of pupils who react to this abandonment of schools, the presidents of the parents' and guardians' associations in police stations to provide explanations and so on, because some of the children are seizing, protesting at the exposure of their health risks and the abandonment of education. I really want your comment if you condemn it because it is shocking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u135	Mr Arsenis, you are a member of the Greek Parliament. You shouldn't be asking me to comment on a court move. You realise that there is a distinction of powers. You wouldn't expect me to comment right now on something the DA's doing. You are a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u136	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u137	Let us return to the essence of the question. You talked about obligations. I would therefore like to point out here that we all have an obligation to report the facts. I would therefore refer to the facts rather than the impressions that are created or could be created if the facts were not there. But the facts are stubborn. I'm going to go on with this. So the teacher didn't go to school. The test was done, it was traced. And to answer why the department closed down, let's move on to what happened on 18 September. A second confirmed case of a coronary appeared at that school, which was dealt with again on the same day - it was 18 September - in the EGE's protocol and pursuant to it, but also under the relevant legislation that we passed, Law No.4722/2020 - mark it, if you want to have it in your knowledge - the decision of the Director of Secondary Education, of Athens came out on the same day. I was there today and there were indeed some representations of protest, which I have heard, because it is our duty to hear exactly what is being done in the field. That's why I'm going to the training addresses, not to hear one, if you want, devoured picture of what's going on in the field, to know exactly what's going on in every school. Director of Secondary III Athens issued this decision on the same day and suspended the department for fourteen days. It's the A3. So there was a second case and it's not connected to the first case. This decision - I say it for information also by the Greek Parliament, because we are not all required to follow it - is now being taken with the opinion of the Directorate for Public Health and Social Welfare of the West Athens, in cooperation with the training directors. Later on the same day, a third case was identified, so the decision of the Directorate of Secondary Education III of Athens was issued, again with the relevant opinion of the Health Department, to suspend the school unit's operation for fourteen days during the planned period. Furthermore, the EGE tracking has also been carried out, because you quite rightly said that it is extremely important for traceability to be carried out, because that is where we can prevent further dispersion. This is why there are COVID managers at each school, who are often the managers themselves, who in great detail record the close contacts of each case, so that it can be facilitated by the EGE. So, to conclude, because the time is advanced, and I am sure that we want to reach a conclusion: the EGE Protocols and the Law have been fully implemented, Mr Arsenis, as every day - and I assure you of that - when there are cases of the virus, thanks to the hard efforts made by both health and education officials. And in this effort, Mr Arsenis, it is a very little task, which I think we all have, to support what they are doing, rather than looking for reasons or at least if we find them based on real facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u138	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-28-S2-commons.u139	With the consent of this House at 23.44 the sitting on Wednesday, 30 September 2020, at 9: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
