ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic-Democratic- According to Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the duration of the speech by the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the hour. The length of address by the Presidents of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Groups and Chief of Police Response, Communist Party of Greece, Greek Solution and Mer25 are twenty minutes of time for everyone. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify and close the meeting for five minutes of the hour. I see that we are all right with regard to the number of Members, in terms of distances, in terms of masks and I would like to thank you for that. I would also like to ask, since we are starting on the limits of the academic quarter's exhaustion, that we have all taken care, with the reasonable tolerance to be given, of having finished at around 22.00, and if possible just a little earlier than 22.00 hours at night, because we will not interrupt the three-hour period for decontamination of the Chamber due to the competent distances, but it will be right that we do not get over the tenth night at the meeting. After that, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mrs Gennamas, for giving us the opportunity today to discuss the main issue of Greek society today. Ladies and gentlemen, it was Wednesday, February 26th when the first coronary case was officially identified in Greece. Since then, a hundred and ninety-five days have passed. There's a lot going on. The government has acted at the very first moment on a bold plan, based always on the directions, the suggestions, the scientists' instructions. Despite the first reactions, it quickly proceeded to very severe restrictions, restrictions that have brought about results. We have strengthened staff and equipment the National Health System and we are still doing so, and at the same time we have drawn up a comprehensive and flexible programme to support households, as well as companies affected by the pandemic. Above all, however, the Greek state has approached the Greek citizens sincerely, calling on them to move together on the path of responsibility and solidarity. A new relationship of confidence between the state and the citizen has been built in our country. And yes, the losses have been reduced and Greece has become an international example of its defence against the first wave of the health crisis, a defence that continues to run our policy, in new terms this time, because the conditions are different, but also with new possibilities on the part of the state apparatus. The threat is spreading around the world again and the battle continues in our country. All the time - I remind you - there were many times that I personally chose to contact our fellow citizens, describing the situation, explaining in detail the measures we are taking and asking for their own crucial contribution. And I am grateful - I have said so many times, I repeat today - for the individual and social responsibility they have shown. The same responsibility and discipline we still need today. I have also often talked to Parliament about what is happening and what we are doing. In fact, the last briefing was made by the two co-presidents, who are present today, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Education, two weeks ago in the committee responsible, where many explanations were given, many answers and I think there were questions - reasonably - from colleagues who responded adequately by the government. I would like to stress that at government level our cooperation with all the scientists, infectious, remains on a daily basis. The Greek people continue to be regularly informed about the health front, but also about the initiatives taken by the Ministry of Civil Protection, always in an official manner, always transparent. And with the same spirit I am coming here today, with a request for opposition: Not to allow ourselves this debate on such a serious issue of turning it into a barren party conflict, not to be caught in discernments that can blur the overall picture and remove us all from what I think should be our common objective, namely the protection of the health, life of the Greek citizens and the management of the economic consequences of the pandemic. The coronary is not offered for easy rhetoric krone. There are many areas where we can unfold our political disagreements. Today, however, the truth and joint action are important. Today all of us in this Chamber, in spite of the individual disagreements, reservations and criticisms, which I think are welcome as long as they are based on scientific and documentary data, must stand above all on a reasonable front, because the coronary can follow its own development. Gets new ways of dispersal, acquires different features. Until the definitive medicinal product, which is not the vaccine, the political forces in this Chamber have at least a duty to agree on a minimum common basis. Who's that? That the decisions that are taken are always made in the light of the findings of science and also of one assumption: that conditions are difficult, are dynamic and therefore require complex and dynamic models that meet at every moment. I note and you too see that despite the fact that the vast majority of citizens are drafted with the experts' demands, there are small irrationalisation minorities which often touches the limits of paranoia. We have an obligation against these outbreaks of irrationalism to stand all responsible, and if anything else, despite our individual disagreements, to embrace, to support, to support, to support, to support, to the audience, basic political choices that experts are urging us, such as the mandatory use of the mask that at this stage of the pandemic, as I shall explain, is the most sure thing to do in order to protect ourselves, our loved ones, without suffering the negative consequences of a further restriction on economic activity, which I believe no one wants in this Chamber. In this context, I have chosen to respond to the issues raised by Mrs Gennimata, on the 10 questions, which I know are at the heart of the citizens' debates, and I repeat: reasonable - anxieties in an environment which remains disturbed. Question One: How successful was the management of the pandemic in the country finally? The answer here is estimated by a single measure, the real protection of the health of citizens. The cases, that is, which have occurred in our country, the number of animals which have unfortunately been lost - any human loss is in itself a tragedy - but of course also the spread of the virus on the ground. Greece therefore, six months after the disease occurred, counts two hundred and eighty-six deaths with an average age of seventy-eight years, that is, welcoming every day in a six-hour country which was hit much harder in the first phase of the pandemic. We have, at the moment we're talking, a total of eleven thousand five hundred forty-two cases. We are in the hundredth place worldwide in deaths per million inhabitants, four times below the average loss in the world. In other words, we have managed with the help of everyone to avoid the hundreds that haunt other states and have put strong brakes on the phenomena of uncontrolled virus dissemination. This graph here, which I will table in the Minutes, shows the real facts, the total cases - there are also a corresponding diagram, which raises cases in the size of the country - and shows that Greece is in a much better position than Portugal, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Spain, France, Italy, the United Kingdom. This is the reality of numbers, which cannot be called into question. [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let me say that it is also wrong to hear opinions like that we did well in the first wave of pandemic, while in its reappearance we appeared unprepared. It is a criticism I often hear, I imagine I will hear it today. I will try to respond to this document because, in my view, that is not the case. The truth is, we have repeatedly said, that we have waited for a reasoned increase in cases since our economy would reopen, not only in tourism, but in any economic activity. I have said that many times, it is something that everyone has anticipated that it would happen in all the countries of the world. Obviously, and we could not remain in eternal lockdown and obviously also the gradual opening-up of economic activity would allow for greater dissemination of the virus. The challenge was, however, and remains, these cases are identified and controlled. And that is what is being done, and it proves all the evidence we have at our disposal. Greece and it has succeeded in the first wave and still - I want to stress this - to do so now. Of course, a summer lesson was that yes, there was relaxation. Pressurized by the limitations, we all reduced our guard. Perhaps we thought that as a society in this way, by relaxing overall, we would be preventing it - perhaps because of summer - from reappearing. It happened in all countries. I would like to remind you that when I spoke with other Heads of State and Government, in what we call Smart Covid Group, our stress was how we would not become victims of our success, namely how we would explain to the Greek society that we did well in the first stage, but the virus has not disappeared. With the exception of New Zealand there has been no other country I know, which has been followed by a tactic of the full disappearance of the virus. We knew that the virus was circulating and we knew that we had to be careful when we reopen economic activity. We also know that many of the summer activities eventually seemed to favour the spread of the virus. When we found out - and we did so very quickly - an increase in cases, which has caused us all to suffer, appropriate actions have been taken, a series has been made not of full local lockdown, but hours have been modified, checks have been carried out in the amusement areas, interventions have been made, and I can tell you for sure, because we have very good access now to data and real data, that where such local interventions are made - which we have been critically criticised by local bodies and also by parties - we have seen that the incidents have been reduced very considerably. It gives us this possibility - when we restrict the local spread of the epidemic somewhere, because we are following exactly this bouquet, this menu of measures which the EGE and the Civil Protection are now well acquainted with - to be able to relax these measures. I will give you an example, which we have not yet announced. There's been a lot of fuss about the Paros issue. Perhaps because Mr. Ragus was a mayor and felt that he had a special view of what is happening on the island. We did very well, and we took the steps we took in Paros. In the last ten days we have seen that Paros has no longer given positive cases or gives little, one or two. If we continue in this trend, we will be ready on Friday to relax the measures and to return Paros to a full regularity regime. The equivalent will still be done everywhere. And I must tell you that, in the last seven days, we have seen the evidence show a balance, possibly a slight reduction. I want to say it and say it again: it is not a cause for complacentness. If next week's figures can show a further decline, relax and do not follow the basic measures indicated by experts, then it is very likely that we will be back in front of a new wave and that we will be forced to take more drastic measures. So our success cannot be an excuse for reassurance. Question 2: What are the appropriate solutions in a pandemic? Is the closure of the economy for a long time or is it a question that is often asked to me - is there any logic in inertia, in which it leads to the immunity of the herd? The answer is unequivocally 'no' in the second. I think we all have a responsibility to stand up to this and say a great deal of truth: COVID -19, the coronary is a dangerous disease, transmitted more quickly than flu, may have complications not only in elderly people, but also in younger people, it is much more fatal than flu and it is not a disease that one takes undeclaredly. I say this because it often predominates this logic, "you're not bored, I'm stuck, I'm going through it to finish and I'm getting antibodies". This approach is wrong. It is wrong because, as I will say, and then, we are now approaching fast steps to finding a vaccine. And we do not want anyone to be exposed unnecessarily to a disease that we still do not understand, and we do not know what the real implications may be. So from the very first moment we have aligned, as I said, with what science has told us. The reason why Lockdown was to prepare the health system, inform society and then go into a situation with good tracking and a very good job done by Civil Protection and EGE, coexist with the virus with extremely limited cases. And here I would like to say a very big thank you to the EGE, to the members of Civil Protection, to all those who support the tracking system that we have managed and activated in recent months. It's a very difficult and very tiring job. And I have to tell you that it is also a job that some people thought could be solved with some application on a mobile phone - you remember this debate, that we would all go down some application and kind of alert us to whom we had come into contact - it turned out that these hopes were fruits. The so-called contact training, the tracking, needs a lot of effort, a lot of trouble, a lot of phones, and many times the Civil Protection can fall over someone who has given us wrong phones and go back to the beginning. We leave no case of 'orphan'. We'll look for every case, we'll track it down to get in touch with those who've been in touch, because it's the only proven way to be able to limit the outbreak of this second wave of pandemic. The third question, therefore, is where a lasting lockdown would lead or possibly lead to a more relaxed policy, the immunity of the herd. We have examples of both. As I said to you, New Zealand, whose Prime Minister we are in touch with the Smart Covid Group, has followed a 'zero cases' policy, 'we will close the country completely, no one will enter'. Yet the virus reappeared in New Zealand. Sweden did the same thing backwards. They have five thousand eight hundred dead in Sweden, while in Norway and Denmark they are nine and eight. The recession is 8.6% in Sweden and the recession in Denmark and Norway is corresponding. In other words, there is nothing economic gaining by letting the virus "run" and circulate in society. It's probably the result backwards. The choice is one: the limited lockdowns, geographically limited rules with good tracking and horizontal measures of common application for all, most importantly the mask, distances and washing of hands. Question IV: Does the resumption of almost all activities last May constitute a return to pre-coronary normality? The answer is: clearly and not. We have been through the almost complete lockdown in a phased opening which has also been unfolded - I want to remind you - in two months' time. From the "living house", which was the main message of our campaign, we passed on "we stay safe". And that's where they don't have any misinterpretations. They are part of and separate some misunderstandings which have been mistrusted by those who have gone to take advantage of an anticipated, as I said, of increasing cases and making it a opposition argument, but also of many good criticisms from some who thought we would return to a pace, to a normality like that before a coronary. I would like to say this again, however unpleasant this may sound: normal life, as we remember it, will not come back either quickly or automatically. We all need to be careful, especially in our daily behaviors. I understand the difficulties and it is not pleasant to any of us, especially in difficult working conditions, to a young child who can work in a restaurant eight hours to keep wearing a mask, but it is absolutely necessary. And yes, some criticism can be made: But well, why do you insist so much on the mask when four or five months ago you didn't insist so much? The answer is that all of us, not only in Greece, learned much more about the virus. And where the mask was not considered necessary, now it is the one, the main, the primary weapon we have at our disposal to deal with the coronary, but also to identify other seasonal diseases. I would like to believe that the protection measures we take will make it easier for the influenza epidemic this year to be milder. We have four million influenza vaccines, three million, which will come to the first batch and one million more we have received, and of course, based on the opinion and views of the Committee on Vaccines, we will move very quickly to massive vaccination, starting from vulnerable groups, so that we do not get to the unpleasant point of collapsing with the coronary this winter. Question fifth and very substantial: Is it because of or is it not tourism for increased cases? We heard some people say: why didn't we close the border and just content ourselves with domestic tourism? Well, the data here is relentless. The latest increase in cases is primarily due to internal mobility and relaxation of protection rules and less to foreign visitors. Why? Because the opening of tourism was done by continuous studying the epidemiological load of each country of origin and by sampling at all gates of entry. To date we have done, according to the latest data available to me, between 1 July and 6 September, four hundred and one thousand nine hundred eight tests to enter our country, whether at land borders or at our airports. We have nine hundred and seventy two positive cases that have been identified. We only have a positive index of 0.2%. We had said from the first moment, when I was in Santorini to announce the beginning of this different, special tourist year, that our purpose was to save what we can from a tourist year that many considered to be completely lost. This remains our objective today, as we have entered September, and we expect that we can end up in October or November without unpleasant surprises. It is estimated that we will have four million visitors in addition to internal tourism, which is translated into four units of GDP. Nobody had the right to deprive this money of public funds. On the other hand, every man in the industry, from the hotel to the young man who works as a cook, has no delusion that this summer we would look to rescue what we can, protect jobs as best as we can, so that we can come back more closely in 2021, but in the meantime, it has given an example of quality and safe accommodation. The capitalisation of this professionalism that we have shown, especially in the management of tourist flows, is an element that can be capitalised by the country. I would therefore ask you to have exaggerations such as those I read or hear, 'without a plan', not to be said. Do not say it because you insult dozens of people, hundreds of people who have worked very hard, in extremely difficult conditions, to end up with a plan and a programming that was not easy at all. You can criticise individual points, but you cannot say that we do not have a plan, we do not have a programme, we do not have a strategy to tackle this unprecedented crisis. This brings me to the sixth question, did the opening of tourism become obsessed. Oh, no! It gradually happened, it became methodically, when we were ready with a mechanism for controlling and tracing incoming flows. We have created a pioneering system, a system which many countries have asked us for information on how to copy it. We brought an excellent man, a professor at the University of California, Kimona Drakopoulos and all his team, who specializes in epidemic algorithms and volunteered to come and build us this system. We currently have a combination of data that forms analogue action models each time. As I told you, it is a method that we have exported it as know-how now in other countries. Its function is simple, you know her. Data from the forms, the so-called Passenger Locator Form, which complements each visitor, are collected on an automated platform. It determines, based on a smart algorithm that keeps learning from the results of the previous day, how much the necessary tests per gateway are. This is how we do a targeted check and so we can identify the risk in time and refer to restrictive measures before, earlier and not later, so that we can keep the local epidemics under control before they do a great deal of damage. That is not, Mrs Gennamas, politics'seeing and doing'. That science calls it dynamic planning, and that is what we follow as government. I would like to remind you that tourism has consumed the largest number of nearly fourteen thousand tests on average in the country. I would also like to say that, unlike other countries where the results came out after four, five, six days, in our country, we had reached the point of having results within twenty-six hours for those who arrived from abroad and within thirty hours for the inhabitants here. Where positive cases were detected the quarantine hotels, as planned, the co-educated doctors at the hotels, the procedures for transporting health structures from remote islands. Question 7. How ready was the state mechanism? The health crisis seals this experience with a valuable lesson that the state mechanism does not need to be massive, but must be muscular and effective. Each country finally turns out to be powerless to face such asymmetric threats if it does not have a well-organised, well-organised, well-organised state machine. And that is exactly what I believe we have achieved in the difficult circumstances that have hit the country since March, with the strengthening of the National Health System, with the cooperation with the private sector to significantly increase the capacity of domestic tests that we can carry out, and I believe that we can soon announce other initiatives with modern technologies that will enable us to carry out even more tests. This chart shows the evolution of the tests and the number of tests from the beginning of the epidemic to this day. We are very high in Europe on per capita tests and we will go even higher, because the tests are absolutely necessary so that we can quickly trace incidents, but also carry out tests on those we have not previously tested. You know very well that at the beginning of the epidemic - all the countries not only Greece - we were only testating on a very strict protocol, the ones we had to test. Now we've expanded too much the possibility of testing. It is not endless, - I want to stress this - the possibility of testing. In other words, it is not possible for the EGE to satisfy every municipality's need for mass tests which each mayor can reasonably and reasonably ask for. That's why we still have strict protocols. But we want to add more test capacities. And that, of course, is not just the state. It is done with the cooperation of the State and the private sector, as is done in all parts of the world. And I would just like to mention, for example, that the country has acquired domestic know-how in the construction of the relevant reagents. In March, on a proposal from the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, we financed a substantial amount, which is close to two million, the so-called flagship initiative, which has facilitated us today and enables us to carry out almost five thousand tests of domestic construction, of domestic know-how, so that we are not dependent on reagents at all times, which we can import from abroad. At the same time, we have done something else which I consider to be extremely important and, in no case, Mrs Gennamas, does not justify criticism of the kind 'you are moving without a plan and without knowing what you are doing'. We founded the COVID -19 Observatory, a central body for assessing the health threat and planning its response. Every day there are more than twenty different indicators, not only the rate of transmission, the number of intangibles, the tests - these are the obvious indicators - other data such as population mobility from data collected from GOOGLE, economic activity, electronic transactions, which we have added from another fifteen indicators, such as energy consumption, tickets to transport. So all this allows us every week to make a synthesis of this data and to draw up a progress report. I have here the thirteenth reports - and I would like to present them in the Minutes - and I would like you to read them if you have not seen them because they are very important. That's real data. It's data that's not questioned. And - as I told you - to have a conversation based on real facts and science rather than rumor and what one might think or imagine. And this information is open to citizens. Every citizen can have access. From the moment on we have served this mission with absolute transparency. And we will continue to follow this strategy until we are done with this adventure. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, along with the fight against the Observatory, civil protection, and public health itself earns a great deal of bet. Intensive units of five hundred and fifty-seven arrived at nine hundred and fifty, with the aim of a thousand two hundred by the end of the year. There have been six thousand eight hundred eighteen recruits of nurses and doctors, two and a half thousand permanent posts. Many of our hospitals have a state-of-the-art equipment and supplies, thanks to a new central procurement management system. There was nothing like that when we came to things. What has not been done by all of you for decades has been done by us in months. This is the reality of the state of the health system. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Question eight, which you, Mrs Gennamas, have also asked, imperative in your question: How heavy is the price that the economy pays? The pandemic’s recession has been the largest since the 1930s. No country is left unscathed. It is still early to assess the size of the damage as well as the time required for its complete restoration. I never created hallucinations, explaining how our goal is the smaller ones - I stress it! - possible losses, especially in employment, especially in the productive foundations of the economy, and that is where we concentrate all the measures which we have taken - and which we continue to take and communicate on a weekly basis - which have been in force since spring and which have been above EUR 15.2 billion. We knew - and unfortunately, this is evidenced - that the whole world economy will be facing an unprecedented recession. In Greece in the second quarter of 2020, we had a delay, a fall in GDP of 15.2%, a very large decline, very painful. But it would be unfair to focus only on Greek numbers. I remember that Mr Tsipras in one of the first discussions we had considered as a measure of comparison of what is going to happen in the rest of Europe and I would say that he is right. When faced with an asymmetrical threat, how much better or how much worse a country is going depends on how far away from the European average. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of this crisis, all the assessments of the international organisations have been saying - in our view, one of them, as evidenced, is a simple analysis - that because Greece is very dependent on tourism, it will ultimately have the greatest negative impact on GDP. Fortunately, this does not prove to be true. The six-month recession - I repeat - is, first and second quarters together, 7.9%. The euro area's recession is 9.1%. Greece has a lower recession than the euro area average. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Portugal has 9.3% recession in six months, Italy 11.7%, France 12.3%, Spain 13.1%. The question and the criticism I shall hear 'But, well, these figures are the figures of a very heavy recession'. Yeah, it's true, we never hid it. We have never said that there will be no recession, but it is also important for our economic planning that little - very - is what we have submitted. I present the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the elements that we have submitted to the European Commission, and fortunately, within this very difficult environment that we are facing, the forecasts of some people who said we will have the worst recession from all over Europe have been confirmed. In fact, they had rushed to give her a name, to say that this was the "Mitsotakis appeal", as if we were not living in unprecedented conditions. Therefore, more consideration is recommended in opposition as a whole, not to bring the numbers to the measures of its own pursuits, and less risky, because we still do not know the duration of the crisis and we should, as I have always said, keep reserves. After all, for fourteen months, our policy has changed. We are not wasting money unreasonablely and unreasonablely. We want every money either from the Greek taxpayer or from the European taxpayer to catch a place. More, I will be able to announce to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, in five days from now, where I will describe the concrete planning of government measures for the difficult next six months. I won't say anything more about that. I will analyse them very carefully and very thoroughly in Thessaloniki in five days. Question ninth, because the issue has been raised which is very concerned with Greek society. Shouldn't the schools be opened in May? Shouldn't the schools be open now or shouldn't they? And how can they open up? This is a dilemma that divided many countries. But what do we know? Scientists tell us. Research shows a reduced likelihood of infection of children by the virus and very rarely - not impossible, very rarely, but - serious illness by it. All experts, therefore, are in favour of being returned to the coke, especially where the epidemiological data allow it, as in the case of Greece. I would like to remind you that when we took the decision with the Minister of Education to open the schools in May, the opposition was across the street without proposing something. We insisted on this approach, we opened schools with other rules at the time and with other rules now. I would like to remind you that in May the general use of the mask did not seem to be a necessary measure - and yet we were totally entitled to - because we did not really have cases in schools, and now schools will reopen the next Monday, with the school bell, but hitting at the pace of the new suggestions: mask, protocols, antiseptics, cleaning of installations, sample checks, differentiated breaks, customized candles, and the abolition of excursions, all the things the Minister has talked about very detailedly. Look, I hear this approach that we should go to a few parts. Yes, the few sections would be desirable, there is no doubt about that. The question is if it's possible. That would require rooms that just don't exist today. But be careful, and the double shift solution, which we examined with the Ministry, has very significant disadvantages. He upset the family, compels one parent, where we have two working parents, to stay at home. And I would like to stress that the question of schools has a strong class dimension. It is a pity that opposition is again identified by a minority trade unionists rather than by the interests of many. If the schools were closed, many parents would have to work less or not, as it is the weakest households that cannot afford to give someone else childcare. Truly lost would be above all parents from the weak social strata, because for them, public education and physical access to public education are the largest weapon and yes, they did leap to telephony in the first two months of the pandemic, and it is a very useful deposit - the non-born - if they have to close some departments or some schools, but it is not the option. It's not the way to go. Nothing can replace the natural school environment and the contact between the students or the student's contact with the teacher or teacher. We also know that long - term incarceration has an impact on children’s mental health. We now have information on it, and unfortunately it is alarming. It causes isolation, anxiety. These are for the first, however, children who need socialism. That is why I call today on all the parties, everyone at their audience, to support, not the choices of the government, the choices of experts. Our experts told us to open schools with mandatory masks at all ages, showing, of course, a greater understanding of younger children. It's an expert's suggestion. In a last survey that I have seen, 80% of Greeks are compiled with the mandatory use of the mask. There is one 20%, however, which has not yet been convinced and it is our job to convince it. And, indeed, we see some images that cause us to wonder, to worry, such as demonstrations against the use of a mask and various others, which certainly give rise to reflection. However, in matters relating to public health, the mandatoryity of the measures is horizontal and universal and do not fit for discounts. That is why I will ask all parties - and each party has the possibility of being able to reach its own audience - and above all the others, for the arguments which will be heard today, at least the basic rules and protocols, which - I stress - have been suggested by the experts, have not been discovered by us, to support them in their own way, so that they do not give the impression that, through a criticism, they can actually be supported by'sprayed' theories, which are moving from the Internet and which have absolutely no scientific basis at all. Question tenth and last: When and how will we get out of the crisis? There's no answer yet. We know that the final answer will come only when a vaccine or more vaccines are found - because it will not be one, when we assess it, it will be more - and when a large part of the population is vaccinated so that we can shrink the transmission of the virus. This will be the beginning of the return. If you ask me a schedule, I'll tell you what I've said in public. Many companies tell us that before the end of the year they will have clinical data and are quite optimistic that the vaccine is working. Greece has already entered all European programmes and will take the dosage given to it by more than one vaccine and, of course, the relevant protocols from the Ministry have already been prepared to prioritise vaccination according to the sensitive groups and the number of vaccines available to us. But, and when that happens, the world won't be as it was before. It will take time to raise economies, to find society new behaviour again. This pandemic doesn't have a class mark. It threatens the same powerful and weak countries, rich and poorer citizens. But it always gets more threatening for the economically weaker. That's why, above all, the state must take care of them. The virus, however, does not distinguish ages or behaviours. There are no, in other words, the bad youths who transmit it, the responsible adults to whom it is attacking. There are only irresponsible citizens of all ages, of all classes, with poor social conscience. Fortunately, they're few, not many. The vast majority of citizens are responsible. But no complacentness is required. Elevations of cases, as I told you, will exist. The strategy of tracking and restricting should be maintained, as should personal awareness. And the slightest instantaneous insight, violation of basic rules, may have devastating consequences. We have seen it together. The Undersecretary knows very well. From predatory party to irresponsible conduct on rooftops of the elderly. Nothing personally hurts me and didn't make me more upset by the incident in Calculation, where, unfortunately, one person has lost their lives today over twenty old people. This must not be done again and it is our duty to make controls, but above all those who are in contact with our vulnerable fellow citizens to understand that it is not their own health, which is at stake, but our fellow citizens' health, who, unfortunately, if they stick to the virus, will be difficult. Let the mistake of a moment become a life lesson for all of us. I close, Mr President - and I apologise if I abused time, but I think it is a matter which concerns the Greek society very much - with the following considerations. I am well aware of the fatigue and anxiety of the citizens. I fully share the uncertainty that they may feel about their work and their income. Our society, however, has shown that it can regenerate, has shown that it can renew its powers when it sees that they have results when these efforts are fruitful. That is why Greece, after ten years of crisis that have been deprived of resources from health, from education, from civil protection, from security, has been able to do much better than richer countries. The same optimism can now be towards the reappearance of the coronary, because now we are all, all Greek shareholders in a new intangible property, trust, trust between the citizen and the state, which was and remains the background to our exemplary behaviour. And no matter how many people want to underestimate Greek's national ambition, this is still a supply of strength and strength. As much as people ignore it or mock it, all they do is say they do not own it. However, there is another national chapter, the stock of country's prestige abroad. I will not talk much about the economy today, but I will only say that today our country is borrowing with the lowest interest rates in its history. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's the picture. That was you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, so we don't forget: 3,54%, 3,50%. Where are we today? To 1.13%. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If things in the economy were as tragic as you are presenting them, I imagine that some on the international markets would have understood it and not offered our country historically low interest rates of borrowing. So the field in which we are called upon to move looks like moving sand and as I started, I will conclude by saying that it should not be ground for petty competitions. It can be the nursery of a new political example with controversy on our ideas, with compassion and a common attitude, but on those issues that go far beyond party issues. I will listen very carefully to your views. I am ready to adopt any creative thinking or suggestion that can make our work better. And I invite you all to face this national challenge together, based above all on scientific truth, political realism, and above all, on the right word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u3	Then there is the floor for the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fotini Gennamas, for twenty - five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, we heard you all the time presenting a situation almost idyllic about what's happening in the country. And I am sure that the Greeks and Greeks who listened to you, who live in anguish, fear and insecurity, are wondering all this time if they are out of place and time. I would therefore like to say that precisely because we understand what is happening around us in this country, so we have asked for this debate to be held today in this House. And I have to tell you that you are either beautiful or you are trying to look them up to us and through the Greek Parliament to the Greek people. But both are extremely dangerous this time. I'll come in detail on all the issues you've raised. But before I get to the essence of our debate, I would like to focus on two issues which I consider to be important. You said that our life would never be the same again after the coroner. It is certain that pandemic changes the way we see things, changes our everyday lives, changes, if you like, the public life itself. However, ladies and gentlemen, nothing at all justifies the promotion of rape as a daily regularity, and indeed by television broadcast. I cannot help talking about what has happened in the last few days. And I want to say that as a politician and as a woman, not only am I against these logics, but I will confront them with all my powers. And I think that this must do and condemn all the political forces in this House. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I come to the second important problem posed by the coronary pandemic. Democracy is weakened every day, because daily accountability, consultation, proper legislation, social control, and the functioning of the press are weakened. There are governments that increasingly see all this as an unnecessary luxury supposedly in the face of what they face. And, unfortunately, we are also observing these symptoms in the functioning of your own government, and I can only point it out today from this Step. We showed, the Change Movement, our responsible attitude since the first moment the coronary appeared in Greece. And it is certain that this crisis leads us to prioritise the protection of human life. However, for us along with this important battle, it is extremely important to try not to allow the graceful blow to those who are still paying the broken ones of the previous crisis. Alas, Prime Minister, if on the back of the Greeks who, as I told you before, are afraid and worried, come to add achievements of an old right, the right that has a hidden agenda in national matters, the right which is difficult to look for faults elsewhere, even if they are young or underage students, of the right who believes in the doctrine "law and order", but not for everyone, has two weights - personally I disagree with the "law and order", but also with the "two meters and two weights" - of the right of establishment of the state with blue curriculum vitae, of the right that distorts reality, as it suits, even when monuments of global cultural heritage are burned, of the right that sees in the public goods of education and health, of the right right that distorts the reality, as it suits them, even when monuments of the world heritage, of the right that is seen in the public goods of education and health, where it serves as a better than other people's, or is able to do so much more than one of other people'storicing. Finally, the right which has not said a single word about increasing the funding of the National Health System and public hospitals. There is not a single word in this whole plan of'shoes', which you are obviously adopting. If nothing else, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to tell you that this mask of the Social Democrats you have been trying to wear lately does not protect you from the chronic diseases of your party and your resignation. These policies follow you. It is therefore a duty of the Vice-President and of the democratic party to ask you today, Prime Minister, for the facts of your government in the last six months, because, despite what you said to us, the truth is one: even today you are looking for a plan for this second phase of the pandemic, because you did not take advantage of the time when the pandemic was in recession, because, unfortunately, the sunset of Santorini was followed by incoming cases, which, for several days, were circulating freely until the test, its outcome, and to know whether or not this man should be restricted. Of course all of these followed local lockdown. You once told us that the country could not withstand a new general lockdown nor a local one. Now, of course, we see another reality forming your responsibility. In fact, you restricted the controls instead of increasing them, because you ran out of labs and molecular analysts. The cases have been multiplied, Prime Minister, as have the patients in the intensive sector, as are the victims we are mourning and now threating the whole population, even young people. The average of the new cases is thirty-nine and the expert forecasts are unfavourable. So the return to the problem is a fact. And I ask: How did we get this far, Mr Mitsotakis, risk losing what we all won together in the first phase of the pandemic? I'll tell you right away. I'll answer you. You first gave the message of relaxation. You almost whistled the end while it was obvious that we were not done with the pandemic. Your own government officials and you yourself participated in a series of events without wearing a mask and without keeping any protection measures, no distances, no nothing. Everything was clear. And as soon as the cases began to grow, the young started to blame. These are incomprehensible things. You told us, Prime Minister, in June, that there were zero cases. You have opened up tourism - and above all the land borders - without conditions, without any control at first. "Come" you said "in Greece, bring your friends. We have opened up." Those are your words. And now you insist that cases are not imported, that the citizens are to blame. Since there were no cases, Mr Mitsotakis, how did the citizens get involved, since there were no cases in Greece? When were you lying to us? When you were telling us we didn't have cases? When you were telling us they weren't imported and it wasn't the tourist's fault? Or were you lying to us in both cases, why is the truth that we also had imported cases? The list of errors does not stop what I mentioned. I must remind you that all summer, citizens were literally stacked in public transport. Now you have begun to discuss several routes, etc., even for driver recruitment and the purchase of buses. You increased the fullness rate to 85% and to the planes to 100%, when the incidents increased. While you knew that Immigrant hospitals were health bombs, you did nothing to protect their health, and even more you did nothing to limit the spread, because these people are all around, they go to hospitals, leave hospitals, get the results, do not find them by doctors. Ask them to tell you what's going on. They're all over the place. And of course, what is going on in the nursing homes is nightmareous and unacceptable. We have pointed this out from the outset. You knew that there would be a problem and you did not take steps to protect the health and life of these people. The key, Prime Minister, in this case - we have said it many times and I will not be tired of repeating it, from April - are the tests and the mobile steps for early tracking. Not only did you organize them in time, but you also let the greed shine. You told us that public hospitals are cooperating with the private sector. Explain to us exactly how, because so far you refuse to put a plaque on the price of the test and cover it up by the EOGY, and now you're running. The National Center for Haemodiasia stated that it cannot withstand any other tests due, obviously, to lack of funding, staff and reagents. In hospitals there is a very serious delay in issuing the test results, even in people, in patients who are waiting for surgery. So tell us exactly how this cooperation took place with the private sector. Do you deny what's written for the 1st District PSUR? Did it or did it not order hospitals in Attica with a specific private group for the tests and, in fact, for the benefit of the group in relation to the costs of the CSR? Was there a known middle name? So I ask where we're going. Listen, Prime Minister, this. You have to commit to us today that all public hospitals - and university hospitals - will be able to test the citizens, because they can't now. Big public hospitals are not able to do it. You rule, you have a responsibility to solve the problems. For us, the responsible Opposition, the road is one, to have tough criticism just to make it possible, to correct and ultimately, to put forward creative alternatives. We do not sit with our hands crossed to wait for anger and pain to grow and to come all this to fruit. Get away from us all those logics. Now I come to the National Health System and continue with the substance, that, in fact, Mr Mitsotakis, it needs support, but in practice. Finally, no more words. You applauded the health workers from the balconies to the heart of the crisis. You joined the heavy and unhealthy? Oh, no. Refugee it. So many times we tabled a proposal for a law and you respond constantly with a 'no'. In practice we must recognise their offer. I come to the regular staff because you talked about recruitment. For your day, the regular staff in the National Health System has been reduced by a thousand hundred and forty-seven doctors and health workers, and the subsidiary, Prime Minister, has been reduced by thirty-six, and we are looking to find out where they are and what the thousands of temporary recruitment are doing, which in total are going to go beyond eight thousand - on the pretext of dealing with COVID -19. Where are these people? What are they doing? Only four hundred and ten of them are doctors. The fact is that the system is currently in need of immediate recruitment of permanent staff and, of course, rapid seminars for the staff to be recruited. Because you know what's gonna happen to us? We've got donations, and they're delaying getting to the system, but they'll get there. So we'll have beds, we'll have respirators and all the machinery we need and if we've managed to hire this permanent staff, it'll be a staff who hasn't been able to train for this function in intensive care units, and we'll stay looking at it and we'll also ask him for responsibilities from the top. So tell us what you have planned for the early training of this staff. What is the timetable for permanent staff coming? Where have all these thousands of recruits been allocated? What are these people doing? I repeat: at last make use of the primary health care network. We've been calling it from March, I think. You had announced sometime in May, adopting the proposal of the Change Movement, that you will make mobile workshops in primary health care. We're still waiting for this. In view of the winter, and because we know that flu will come too, it is essential that you move on very quickly in creating these scales. You have the network. Coordinate it, organize it. Don't make only recruitments everywhere. I shall, of course, repeat the question of tests. Testing, testing and testing, with the priority of health, welfare structures, homes, public services which come into contact with the public and of course the structures of migrants. The private sector must also assume its responsibilities, obviously with less profit. Let them understand that within this crisis, it is not possible for their profits to be the same, to be favoured only by those who are going on in this place. Can't you give it to them to understand that? Can't you get them into a central design? Give them a responsibility even to take on the workers of companies returning to work after the holiday. All this is paid, and it's a lot of money, Prime Minister. It goes without saying that, once the vaccine is delivered, there should be the possibility of direct and free access to all citizens, of course in the vulnerable categories of the population. The question, however, is who will want to and will agree to make this vaccine. I would therefore point out very early, Prime Minister, that an information campaign is needed in favour of the vaccine. Also, there is a need for an information campaign in favour of the mask. It is incomprehensible what we have been living in Greece for the last few days. This logic of conspiracy theory must finally be hit once and for all at the place. It is a logic that began at other difficult times at the beginning of the economic crisis. I would remind you that this logic of 'anti-anti-immemorandum', that is, there is another policy, another mixture, does not do well by the german germans, who then added, the traitors, all of them - your party established it, Mr Mitsotakis. And, of course, other populist forces have then come and scanned them all. Now, then, this "instead" you've made it and built it, you find it toward you, but the bad thing is that the country itself finds it, you and your government do not only find it. And only together can we put an end to this logic, which is dangerous to the health and life of the citizens. Finally, it needs serious preparation for travel from now on to a country. We've been saying it all along, and I understand it's not just your responsibility. You cannot alone impose on the European Union or on the international community what will happen, but you too have a voice and that voice must be possible. It cannot continue this, each country every month or every 15 days to change the data on how to travel because it will be disastrous the effects on the economy from now on. They'll stop the trips, they'll be severely reduced. So set a framework for travelers to know from the start what they should do. Must they have a negative test? Never? How many days ago? Do they have to fill in this form you've made? Fill in the form. It must be uniform rules and well-known and stable, unless there are dramatic developments in the Coronovir case, we all understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation created by the opening up of schools - I come to this very big issue - shows once again that the government is unprepared. Far from us the logic of not opening the schools. We don't want closed schools. We need safe schools. Come here to see and discuss what you have done and what could be done, because you lost all the months you could have discussed with the educational community and informed parents and students and have taken your measures so that we do not have more than fifteen children in each department. We could not agree on this and you would come and tell me, Prime Minister, 'Yes, I hear it about the few parts, it would be good, but we cannot do it'. Why can't you do it? Why couldn't more rooms be found? Why couldn't the teachers be activated either by volunteering or by recruitment? Why could distance learning not take advantage of real, not of the studio class? You could have done teacher training all this time. Why couldn't you even have organized shifts? You could have reduced even the matter. I can talk to you a thousand things right now. So why was it so difficult and impossible in the end to do what most European countries do and you must finally impose the crowding on children in the classroom? We are therefore interested in the safety of both children and teachers and workers in schools and the families of all of them. This is very crucial, but it seems that the government is only required to have a mask and a cucumber. That's what God helps, I add then. Does the criticism I make often bother you that you are following the logic of'seeing and doing', but what have you done differently in opening schools? Tell us something specific. I want to read you a letter that came to me a day or two ago on my personal e-mail. He writes the husband of an educator: "I would like to share with you a fact that has particularly troubled me. My wife is a teacher and on Thursday night she received an informational e-mail according to which, after contacting the Education Department, ETAY gave instructions to all school teachers - and my wife - they should be quarantineed for 14 days. The reason was a teacher who took part in the meeting of her school teacher club two to three days ago and found positive". This teacher, of course, these two - three days, was circulating in the county everywhere without knowing the result. So he writes to me: "I cannot describe the inconvenience caused to these people and our families. The following day, after the intervention of the Ministry of Education and consultation with EGEY, a new briefing was sent, according to which not all the teachers who participated in the meeting will finally enter quarantine, but only those who sat next to the teacher found positive." He says man: "I am obviously not in a position to judge the substance of the case, but it is visible by the naked eye or the total absence of a framework of basic directives by the relevant bodies." He writes this, I'm not saying it. 'I do not hide you' - he writes to me - 'that we felt extremely alone. We didn't know what to do. Insecurity is the worst counselor in such cases. You realize that the educational community is retarded." After this incident EGE's instructions were issued, which I invite you to study, because of what I have looked at at the conclusion is that the mess was merely institutionalized. I'll see you, if you want, in dentistry. In fact, it is not the area of education that is either sterile opposition, it is not even for sloppyness and experimentation, and we should all have it very well in our minds. Of course, problems are not dealt with by authoritarianism. The tsubukas to children, and even to adolescents, can bring exactly the opposite results to what we expect you to have in mind. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, on the third topic of the debate, namely the impact on the economy and society, on businesses and on workers. I appeal again to the Prime Minister, who not only has the central responsibility of all final decisions, but also, instead of a final state, has set up a very centralised mechanism in the Maximus Mansion. Mr. Mitsotakis, you also told us that our economy is being led to a two-digit recession, 15.2% in the second quarter. This means that to a large extent - obviously not just because of it, we do not close them and we do not level them all - your measures proved to be inadequate and delayed. You should know that there are sizes of the economy coming back even twenty-two years. Small and medium-sized enterprises are threatened with padlocks. GFCF speaks of the death of the trader, the professional and the craftsman, I add. We have price reductions that are on average at 45% and liquidity has never reached those who really needed it. You let the banks run the test, and they actually gave the loans to their good customers. Now you are announcing a new bankruptcy code that actually turns the owners into tenants of their first home. Once again just serve the funds. Owners are tenants. The first residence is not protected. We insist on our proposal for a sustainable and effective framework to protect the first residence. I'm coming to tourism. Unfortunately, it is obvious that the year is gone. That's not the result we expected. We went worse than predictions. Revenue from foreign tourists will be reduced below 20% of the previous year. You did not, Prime Minister, reduce VAT on focusing and accommodation to make the Greek product attractive and competitive, and of course you did not give strong incentives, in time, to open up more businesses. The vast majority of the hoteliers kept the units closed. Of course, this has led to unemployment taking a threatening dimension. Your Minister is once again celebrating this society again with the voucher, because unemployment is allegedly increasing only 1.3%. Who's he laughing at? ELSTAT's figures clearly show that jobs in the economy in May were a hundred ninety-three thousand three hundred twelve less than in May 2019. The worst of all is that about two hundred thousand people have been so disappointed that they are not looking for a job, they do not claim to join production. Of course, on the other hand, apart from unemployment, the other thing is that workers are condemned to poverty. Over a million people have at this time the poverty allowance of EUR 534 and, of course, the dogma 'half the job, half the wage' is being forced. Instead of subsidising 40% of the wage, as we have proposed, you obligate businesses and workers to work only with part-time employment, with the unsuccessful work programme, while at the same time undermining sectoral collective agreements and refusing to support them. What are you actually doing with this tactic? You close your eyes to the poor and unconscious employers and that creates unfair competition on the market, because not all employers are in the same fate. Hundreds of thousands of hotel workers are threatened to lose even the unemployment benefit. I too am wondering - if you can give us the information - how many people have been subsidised by the OAS last year and how many are now being subsidised through this exceptional allowance. Recently your Minister submitted to the House provisions for new adverse measures. Any worker, he says, has to quarantine, even if he does not have the same responsibility, must then work overtime without pay. It is not only unacceptable and provocative but also obviously unconstitutional. It is planned to grant a reduced Christmas gift for workers who have been forced to suspend work. You need to see this. Legislate a computer of 534 euros. But the state, Prime Minister, has to cover this difference. Workers should normally get the gift corresponding to their nominal salary. And as a cherry on the cake, the statements about the pension are coming. I'm going to go back to dentistry because I see I don't have any time for this right now. I also said at the outset that I am very concerned about the fact that you are trying to make things look good. In fact, you come and make poor comparisons with economies of other countries that have a completely different structure from ours. And that's not just wrong. I heard you repeating numbers and making comparisons. But all this is disorientated from correct solutions to the problems of the Greek economy which has specific features. So we should plan solutions right on the problems of the Greek economy. If we don't see them, because we want to look at them, we're just never gonna solve them. You'll never solve them. You did not hear us when we proposed the interim programme to keep the economy alive and society upright. You left to merciful business and workers. We told you. It's hard after you come to build on ruins. Now you're talking about reserves. You've lost your battles, though. That's why you're looking for the reserves. And I repeat once again, Mr Mitsotakis. Now take effective measures before it's too late. We will also be waiting to hear from you in the report. It's no longer a report. It is the forum of the Thessaloniki Exhibition. Unfortunately, everything changes. But we will also be there with our own proposals and with answers to what we are going to hear. For businesses, what is needed is a new liquidity grant programme based on the company's viability this time, Prime Minister, not on being a good customer to the banks. It needs to strengthen the programme of repayable advance. With all his problems it was the only measure that came and gave a breath to the businesses. Nothing else worked out from what you've announced to date. We say, therefore, that this measure must be strengthened by EUR 2 billion, in addition to the EUR 1.8 billion that you have announced and, above all, on the basis of the business turnover, so that this liquidity is fair. Revenue subsidy of 40% for the firms affected, student accommodation until the end of 2020 without any further burden on the owners. But, Mr Mitsotakis, we are talking about the full subsidy of 40% of the total rent. You come and talk about a 40% reduction, if it does, each owner, that is, much less aid to the tenant than he needs and to the one we are proposing. Removal of the trade fee for small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers and an irresponsible bank account for professionals. If you don't now, when will it finally be? Prolongation until the end of the year of the measures to defer payments to the companies affected by the crisis, but at the same time to join sustainable arrangements so that they can sometime repay. Because what will happen, Mr. Mitsotakis? At some point the obligation to pay will be opened, but the economic situation will not have improved by magic from one moment to the next, since you too are not taking the appropriate measures. So how will they pay when you tell them 'Come now' if you have not foreseen sustainable arrangements so that they can cope with it? Of course, it is very important, since we are talking about regulation, that those who have joined the regulation of a hundred and twenty doses, and within the problem of the coronary, have not been able to be okay and fulfil their obligations, do not come out of this arrangement. It is extremely important, Mr Mitsotakis. You have to. It will be disastrous for all these people if they lose this opportunity, which will not be given again. And so that the next year will not be lost in tourism, I repeat our proposal for competitiveness, for VAT to be reduced to 6% for focusing and staying and, of course, for VAT to be reduced to the islands, all the islands that existed without exceptions, for the Aegean islands. I come to our proposals for workers. We repeat this once again, instead of the failed 'Cosmos - WORK' for companies that suffer the consequences of the crisis. Coverage of 40% of employees' wages, maintaining jobs and existing contracts. Cover all workers who lose their jobs and those who are already unemployed with an increased unemployment benefit for as long as the crisis lasts and a decent allowance guaranteed by you for the autumn and winter months to all workers seasonally in tourism and catering, without terms and conditions. It's extremely important. You take them a month - month with extensions, with crumbs, and in many cases they are both families, and the man and woman worked in tourism. How will they make out in winter, how will their homes and children live? Obligations run. Can they plan for one month extensions and poverty benefits? If the state doesn't show his face to these people, who's gonna show it to? I said this before, with a job suspension, with the contribution of the State and finally a declaration of compulsory sectoral agreements, first of all that of foodism. And I would like to say a few words about the farmers who have been completely abandoned in their luck. It is necessary to support livestock enterprises, with payment of aid, as soon as possible, all amounts due by the ELGA and all outstanding subsidies to farmers and farmers. Settle the debts to banks and EEKA for the sectors affected. And finally cover the damage caused by natural disasters in recent years. It is a very big problem facing the olive growers. All these months, we don't get any answers. I will repeat once again the need for reform of the ELGA regulation. We are all talking about climate change, but the ELGA in its regulation does not include compensation for the effects on farmers of phenomena already associated with climate change in our country. Finally, it has to be done. Payment to farmers of the amounts due from the Rural Development Programme. And finally, at some point let us know what you have agreed on the new CAP, which will significantly affect the future of the country's rural world. Mr Mitsotakis, do not re-invoke these difficult hours, firstly, financial narrowness, because, where you want to give, you find the money, you can secure it. Secondly, because we have no financial constraints this year. You yourself said that the lending of the country, due to the contribution of the European Central Bank, is very favourable. So we need to use it now, not just to see the charts. The ECB has led us there, not your own policy, to say things by their name. Thirdly, use the reserve at last, especially the part that does not need to be approved by the ESM and is based on the sweat of Greek citizens and overtaxation. If not now, I repeat that economic and social deadlocks are evident, when will you do that? You said in Thessaloniki recently that your Government is marked by credibility, consistency and effectiveness. I could reverse them, talk about inconsistencies, inconsistencies, inefficiency and add also a profound conservative approach and perception to which solutions you ultimately give. The truth is, Mr Mitsotakis, as much as you do not like, that you go with the logic of'seeing and doing', both in the pandemic and in the economy and, unfortunately, in national matters. I told you the other day, in our debate again in the House, that you do not lead, that you do not advance, that you are following foreign policy. You did not seek to form a national line with inner corrosion. Refugee the Council of Political Heads. In fact, the various loots are trying to reap public debates of this kind. I would like to believe, Prime Minister, that you do not adopt everything they say on your behalf. It would be useful to hear your opinion. I would also like to point out that you leave space for both nationalism and patriocardialism in the way you handle things and of course have exclusive responsibility. You were saying, Prime Minister, no challenge is going to go unanswered. The 'ORUC REIS', however, still walks like nothing is going on at all. We've learned from your former consultant that he doesn't just walk, but he also did research. And when he said that, you didn't deny him, you fired him, probably because he said it, because you haven't disrespected him until today. I asked you last time and I didn't get an answer. I'm going back to the question. At the same time, threats and blackmails are escalating. And because it is always heard that Greece is in dialogue with Turkey - we hear one, we hear two, we hear three - we must, Prime Minister, finally clarify things and tell us what is happening in NATO. NATO secretary told us that you are talking and now one is talking about dialogue and the other is talking about technical discussions. Will you finally tell us, Mr. Mitsotakis, exactly what's going on? Now, you say that when the Turks leave the Turkish ships, the dialogue will begin in general. So you need to make two things clear: one is that dialogue with Turkey is not with the gun at the table and the second is what dialogue we are having when we are able to start it, only for one thing, for the continental shelf and for the AEZ and nothing else. This must not only be said internally, but it must also be clearly said to those who have taken a mediation role, which must be an honest and clear role, with a well-known context in the first place. That's what we want to tell you for so long, we don't want to embarrass you, we don't want to tie your hands. To help the place, we want to strengthen Greece's voice. Greece's voice is strengthened if the Prime Minister of Greece clears all this up to all its interlocutors and to all international organisations by saying that this is not a line I am saying, just Mitsotakis and my government, but it is a national line that supports a overwhelming front inside the country. So that's what we want to achieve. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We are, of course, still waiting for the sanctions that the Union is going to announce at some point. And it is impressive that while the European Union, leading in France, sees nothing else from the Union! - the dangerous safety gap, but also the strong possibility - says - of conflict in the Eastern Mediterranean has done nothing to date to fill this gap. And obviously, they have not been demanded on the Greek side in an urgent and clear way. I am saying a proposal in addition to what has been discussed. Consider it, Prime Minister. On the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon in Article 42(1), the European Union can and must set up a military mission and could do so in order to prevent conflicts in the Eastern Mediterranean. I would remind you that the European Union is always present. It gives the'residence' dynamically, but does not give it where there is a serious risk, as it sees, for peace and stability in the region in the Eastern Mediterranean. So why doesn't he do it? I have heard your Foreign Minister say that there is, of course, also the possibility of triggering, if things become worse in the next period, the mutual assistance clause. It is a proposal which we have often put on the table in the Socialist Party. It is not at the moment - I stress - but it is also a possibility for the future, which the Member States will also put before their responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that every house gives its battle on too many fronts. It is perhaps the biggest test that our country has been going through so far, at least. At the same time as the country is threatened by the Turkish challenges, jobs are being lost, businesses are being closed down, consumption is falling, but at the same time, children must go to school, the bills must be paid, the loans must be paid, we must stay protected and away from the virus and, of course, we must protect our elderly people as well as the vulnerable groups of the population. So in this huge trial for the Greek people we, the Change Movement, are next to him. We will not let this crisis become another opportunity for the few and a problem of survival for the many. Together we'll give these games! Together we will strengthen the demands and voice of the Greek people, Mr Mitsotakis, who are suffering at this time. And we will help with the struggles and our proposals at last to not only see the difficulties of everyday life, but look up, look forward, look forward, look at the horizon and hope again in a better perspective! So in the face of the conservative choices made by the government, propaganda and misinformation, populism, easy solutions and falsifications of Officerial Response, we, the Change Movement, respond with an integrated recovery plan for the place, a plan that we have already started and discussed with the forces of production, with the Greek society. This is the necessary leap forward that needs a place. It is a plan that the New Democracy does not want and cannot do, it is obvious, and of course even SYRIZA, as they are stuck in the past. The Change Movement, ladies and gentlemen, is a continuation of PASOK and an expression of the progressive party today. He's here for the new progressive change that this place needs. And we want, and we know, and we can do it. We've left our mark in this place. We are therefore a shield for democracy and a support for society. It is precisely with this thinking that we have a hard opposition, but creative and always with alternative counterproposals! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u5	Immediately afterward, the Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the Parliamentary Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, is called for 20 minutes. The speeches so far don't help us finish at 22: 00. I think that the next speakers, including the Prime Minister, can also help to achieve this. Come on, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u6	You're telling me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u7	I'm starting with you, because I have my hopes in this respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u8	You are not the only one, Mr President, in the Chamber! Perhaps you could do at ten o'clock what they do at different restaurants and bars that go out with the bell and squeeze the dissolution, one more of the vulnerabilities we've seen in recent times. But that is at 12 o'clock in the evening and not at 10 o'clock, as if before 12 there was no transmission of the virus, and after 12 the odds are increased! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You have objections! We'll talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that this House has been discussing the course of the pandemic. But I think it is the first time that we have been discussing this while things are developing extremely negatively. And citizens' concern and rightly - I would say - has reached the vertical. And I think today, with our positions here in this House, we are calling beyond all others, apart from submitting our views, our positions, we must also fulfil a democratic and at the same time moral duty, I would say, to make known to the public everything that we are following, we see the sovereign propaganda happening - I shall say so - hide it, degradingly, distorts many times. And I say this because this concealment, or this distortion, or these contradictions to which the dominant speech has suffered in the previous period, is a risk - and I am starting with it, I am pointing out this risk - of creating a stand and a tendency on the citizens of rejection - or conspiracy - of the danger to pandemic. The hours are critical, the country and society as a whole I believe is in an unprecedented climate of insecurity and uncertainty. Each Greek family lives in a climate of insecurity and anxiety for the health of the older members of the family, the older ones, for the jobs of the younger members of the family. Because you have referred to the impact of the European Union on the economy compared with other European Union countries. I shall refer to these in great detail. But let us not forget that the country has spent almost eight years of difficult fiscal adjustment with an unemployment that climbed to 27% and we left it to about 17%. The rest of the European Union and the other countries are not those figures. So the agony is about both today and tomorrow's economic survival in each family, whether they are freelance professionals, whether they are microbiologists or small-sized workers - even worse - who lose their jobs. And of course, there is anxiety about tomorrow for their children who are studying, how they are going to study, who go to the schools that open up and how they go to these schools. There's anguish about the future for tomorrow. And that anguish and insecurity cannot be concealed by any beauty of the situation, any political feasibility or - if you want - and hours of a ridiculous one - let me be allowed to express - beautification and distortion of reality. I heard you, Mr. Mitsotakis. You spoke much more than time. I shall try to deal with economic issues in my dentistry so that we can share time and not go far beyond the time of my speech. But I listened carefully. Everything perfect, you haven't made any mistakes, no mistakes! If it's all perfect, why fight the world? People want to hear the truth. He doesn't want to hear the beauty of the truth or half the truth, he wants to hear the truth no matter how difficult and unpleasant it is. People want to see you take responsibility and no responsibility, no political responsibility. Not when things are going well, you believe that you who had the greatness to trust the citizens and when things are not going well for the citizens to be charged, who suddenly aren't worth trusting them. We have been in almost a hundred times more cases since you announced the end of the restrictive measures and of Lockdown and we are being called upon to deal with a new wave of pandemic, which is harder than the first, at least massive in cases. And this is due to many - it has not been done alone, somewhere because of this - it is not a natural phenomenon that is spreading - and to mistakes and omissions of your own, to lack of planning and, above all, to the unacceptable effort to gain political added value and temporary political benefits from pandemic. I think that by listening to you, this attitude you are choosing today, this gives rise to even greater concern and even greater insecurity. But let's start over. When about five and a half months ago, on 23 March you announced the restrictive measures, the restriction of traffic, and the movement of citizens throughout the territory, the closure of schools, namely Lockdown, we had seventy cases a day. Today we have a stable three-digit number and very often over two hundred. Then, then, the Civic Opposition, all the parties and all the political leaders supported your decisions and closed our eyes to any mistakes and omissions you made, because then you did, but we said that what is important is public health and what is important is that we also contribute with this little or great role that we have from the public stand, with, for example, our own to convince the citizens how important these restrictive measures were then to be accepted. Not only did you not appreciate this attitude, but immediately after you came here to the House moving our finger and wished, Mr Mitsotakis - I say this to you - to turn into a personal political triumph the success that we all know was due to this attitude of discipline which was shown by the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens. You then rushed to make the image of an extraordinary return to normality, so inseparable, that if you combine it - you leaked it - with the advice of your advisors or ministers to resort to exceptional elections, in order to fruit up to this added value, one can conclude that this inseparable re-start, this 'father and good' attempt to tell us that everything is over, that we have succeeded and are world champions, we have ended up with the coronary, all this was probably due to this dilemma that you had in relation to political developments. The result of this hasty, desecrated return to a polite normality is ultimately within a few months, during the summer months, to achieve a achievement - because it is a feat - to turn this great success of Greek citizens, in relation to the country's health insurance into a fiasco. Obviously, if one compares - you have done so since the beginning of the pandemic to date, the sizes with other countries - where we have been when you announced the lifting of measures and where we are today, this is about day and night and the question is why this has happened. For me, the main reason is what I told you, that your mind is on temporary political benefit and on communications policy. So where are we today? We are in a situation where we have a negative figure in all areas and what the average Greek citizen perceives is that in the first phase we paralysed the economy, you left the economy unprotected in the name of protection of public health and then in the second phase in the second phase in return. You left public health unprotected, and save the economy. But neither does one have a positive balance, nor does the other. Neither in the economy nor in health we have a positive balance today. The lack of a plan, your revolts many times and the constant effort to transfer the responsibilities attached to the government - the government makes decisions - to citizens is, I believe, the main account of your policy in the months following the lifting of the restrictive measures, and examples are a lot. I would like to substantiate this criticism, not let it crawl without documentation. First of all, you opened tourism without a plan and without a massively mandatory test. Why? Because perhaps so, I imagine, they demanded or pressed the tour operators. You did not invest in the brand that you yourself used to advertise - and you were right to advertise - the safe health country, a country that had the best results, which would have a massive test, which would have a quarantine of seventy-two hours. None of this. All in bulk, all in the leg. Instead of demanding all the gates of entry - what you finally did to Promahona and did when you saw that Promahona is a mess - seventy-two hours of negative test for every visitor who wants to enter the country - from all the gates of entry, from all land, airports, ports - what did you get out and say? We have opened and are waiting for you at the sunset of Santorini, in a truly idyllic space for such an event, although it cost the Greek public a little bit. However, that is not the point. The question is exactly what you have chosen to do. Come and bring...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u9	So, how much did it cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u10	How much did it cost? Are you asking me how much it cost? I think around 80,000 euros say what I have at my disposal. It was over...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u11	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u12	Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u13	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u14	How much did it cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u15	In any case, did you or did you not have more than eighty co-sponsored government officials and their wives come to the sunset of Santorini to open up the tourism? And you're going to ask me how much it cost! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Aren't we a little embarrassed? Like it's your money! Are you asking me how much it cost? You answer how much it cost, not me. Get the evidence now. Bring them in. Up to EUR 15 000 invoices were issued by a gas station in the region. Don't we know that? You want me to submit the evidence, how much did it cost? But that is not my criticism today, do not cause me. Don't provoke me! You'll get answers when you challenge me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u16	You're unfair to yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u17	It's all right, I have you to bring me back to class. The issue, however, today is not the 80 or 50 grand which it has cost, because the dismantling of public money is done with immunity in this area, and we have been mentioned many times, but it is the issue. So let me stay on the subject of our debate today and the issue is your choice. Instead of taking advantage of the country's brand, in the name of losing some revenue, you said: "We have opened and waited for you as it is." And I would like to point out to you that if you made the other choice, we would have much better results both in terms of revenue from tourism and in terms of the number of visitors, because the message that we would give to the German citizen, to the French citizen, to the European Parliament who wants to visit the country and also to fight for public health, for his personal health, is that he will go to the safest health destination on the planet and that he will not risk it because he requires that country to have tested before and to have shown that you are clean to get in. What more important is to strengthen this message and to have a qualitative and substantial number of visitors, quality and substantial tourism and a large number of visitors who would come to the country using this brand? But you didn't. You didn't. You burned the safe destination paper for Greece. You've increased fullness to 100% on planes. Why? Because that's what the airlines demanded. You accepted the 100% increase in the completeness of the planes. Why? Because that's what the airlines demanded. You increased completeness in those days, which you had already struck the alarm and started to increase cases to 85% on ships. Why? Because the shipowners demanded it. And one entered the ships and saw that it wasn't 85%, but it was 100% complete in many cases. - Listen, listen! - different sanitary protocols at each gate of the country. You are now telling us that it is not the case tourism, because the cases we recorded are small, the number of cases that we recorded at the entrance gates of the country. What kind of creative accounting is that? Where are you headed? You tell us that about four million will be tourists who in the season will have passed the country. Is that right? And at the same time, we have the evidence. Sampling tests take place around 10% to 12% of those entering. And you tell us that in this 10% to 12%, the total of cases recorded is only 0.2%. It's a small percentage. It is a small percentage if you want to run in the House with a 3% limit, but if you see the absolute figure, at four million - assuming that this is, 0,2%, which is what is recorded, it will be more, but let it be - it is eight thousand, of which by doing only 10% to 12% the large majority of these eight thousand has passed without a test, so it does not know that it has, and has been in contact with dozens of people in the country. Your statistic tells eight thousand of the cases incoming from tourism, when on 1/7...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u18	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u19	Okay, I know exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u20	You know what you're saying, but he didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u21	Sit down then and calculate them. I know very well what I'm saying. Calculate them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u22	You figure it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u23	When the 1/7 cases in total were three thousand four hundred and today they are eleven thousand five hundred. So how do you say that it is not the tourists' fault about the cases and that we had him before, and we spread him to each other? The answer to this was to close the country? Not obviously. So the only example that exists here is New Zealand and the immunity of the herd of Sweden and Great Britain? These two, or white or black, do they exist? There's not only these two. I told you the basic mistake, the basic mistake that were the different health protocols from a gateway to an entrance gate, and the fact that you did not require Greece - which is brand tourism and its natural beauty, but would also be for the first time as a safe health destination - compulsory seventy-two-hour negative tests to enter the country. Wouldn't we have any mistakes? We'd have, but not that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u24	What example do you propose? Which country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u25	In the four million how many mistakes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u26	I have other examples to tell you about failures, omissions, omissions, all of these, contradictions in general. You have not decided the simplest, to increase routes to public transport. Do you want any example of another country that's done it? You didn't decide and tell us - your ministers - "Hey, what to do? There will be aggregation in the metro and in the public buses, in public transport." You have failed to coordinate the competent local and audit authorities in order to comply with the measures at local level. You referred to the example of Paros. Now have you referred to this as a positive example? We had the first day recorded five cases, the second day three cases, the third zero cases, and then Paros closed. For the eight cases did Paros close, when we had information for days from the workers in the National Health System that there were dozens of cases there, when only in a health store, in a restaurant in Naoussa - which self-built before you were lockdown - all the staff were found with coronary cases? Why didn't you tell the truth? Why did you hide the truth to the mayor, to the local society, to the tourists who were there, to the workers, and you suddenly shut it down and the world went and conspired to find a boat to leave? Was that a responsible attitude? You misunderstood Paros as an example. So now let's come to today. While pandemic is on the rise and the needs of diagnostic tests are on the increase every day in the country, the National Center for Haemorrhage, the largest public laboratory carrying out molecular tests on the virus, states that it cannot respond to its role and even on the outrageous justification that there has been unreasonable use of tests. And a few days later, the medical school's microbiology lab, announcing that it cannot respond to the huge volume of examinations from the Athens and regional hospitals. So what happens now? What happens now? Should anyone go to private institutions to do a test costing 30 euros and pay 120 euros, in fact, to those who have access and to prominent community officials who are already informing us? What are these things? So tell us where else this is to be done to compare it to other countries in Europe. Of course, I don't want to refer to limehouse. It was sincerely your sorrow for the limehouse - if I'm not mistaken - where the home was, where the transmission was. I don't contract, obviously your grief was true. However, I also think there are some responsibilities in this, namely that it is not the irresponsible official who has gone and stuck the elderly people together. What measures has the state taken to ensure that there are continuous and massive tests at the time of workers entering and leaving the nursing homes? What measures are we taking in the structures of immigrants, closed and open? What measures are we taking for our homeless fellow citizens, who have no clean, running water and soap to wash their hands? These are huge issues. I now come to the ERC area. Lockdown happened - and it was good - to get time to prepare for the second wave. But what did you do with the necessary staff recruitment? You keep telling us how many intensive treatment units we have. Look, units aren't beds. That's the easy one. Go on, we have also brought several respirators, which in many cases are portable. I'm not an expert, but they say they don't have the same credibility. But, anyway, nice, we have more beds. Personally, we have to cover up these beds in an hour of emergency? I am pleased that the previous speaker said what would happen if we compared the evidence, because you have said a lot of big words. You still said here that we did as much as we did not do in ten years. Well, a little lower the precipitation! I'll get you the evidence here. In the summer of 2019, when we handed over the National Health System, the staff working in public health units were more than five thousand than we now have a pandemic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As shown by the figures of May 2020, data published in the Register of Human Resources Greek State...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u27	We missed you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u28	I didn't hear you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u29	We just missed you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u30	It is unpleasant to say what I am saying, but the truths are unpleasant sometimes. Fight them! So, it appears from figures published in the Greek State Human Resources Register, officials in health units in May 2019 were seventy thousand fifty-four and today, in May 2020, there are seventy thousand three hundred and fifty - six thousand eighty - eighty - eighty - eight! As far as temporary staff are concerned, the resulting reduction is greater. They were twenty-thousand sixty-six and are seventeen thousand ninety-six, three thousand-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven, and a thousand-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-six, meaning 5%-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-hearted, which means 5%-th-squaree-square-square-square-to. That's what we're talking about. You told them right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u31	Will you give us the evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u32	Here, here's the evidence, take it. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] It's your evidence. We're not stealing evidence. Here, yours are the elements in the apografi.gov.gr, Human Resources Register...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u33	We have different elements from what...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u34	Well, that joke will leave it, Mr. Mitsotakis! The crucified hands here and "give them the clues" and then just get the videos out and get humiliated, let them go. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Make a confrontation with opinions and facts, but not with an effort to prove that we lie and that we are not telling the truth. To stop this story, because the biggest political fraudster that has passed through the country is you, who promised the Greek people strong growth and brought 15% underdevelopment in the second quarter of 2020! To end, then, the jokes and to end this fairy tale. Strong growth became a strong underdevelopment, 15% in the second trimester and 0.7% in the first quarter, before the coronary arrives! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Look, with balls, lies, propaganda and misinformation from a well-informed mechanism -- the Pecha list has done a good job -- you're not going to hide the problems. This has short feet, because everyday life is stubborn and when you are in front of very great shortages and in the face of danger, then reality cannot be hidden. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing these days that, in the same way as you opened tourism, you are going to open the schools, without a plan, without any substantial preparation. You do not even adopt what has been proposed by the EGE - you have told us to respectfully and correctly what the scientists say - who, after other interventions by serious, worthwhile scientists - I listen to the public debate and interventions by Mr Mosilos and Mrs Linos and other scientists - in his instructions what we have said since 23 July in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, where the representative of SYRIZA has tabled ten points for the opening of schools. It refers to a point in the EGE's intervention, that it is important to define and agree at local level the precise modalities for implementing the general principles of prevention measures in schools on the initiative and inventivity both in relation to the whole organisation of school life, as well as in relation to the use of space and other resources, which may be made available to each school and wider community. What we have said since, among other things, is that the school committees, the teachers' association, the parents' associations, in cooperation with health authorities to determine the conditions, because a school is different, there is a room where there are differences. You know all this and we know that in many cases there are school buildings which are in a very bad state. In the midst of pandemic, however, you don't even do that. What are you doing? This is where I think you have a world lead. You decide in the midst of a pandemic, to have more than few students per class. I do not know whether there is another country, not Europe, in the world, which, in the midst of a pandemic, decides to do so. By a law that you made sure to bring summer - it was for the schoolmasters, the permanent weakness of the Minister - you raised the schoolchildren's limit to the grades of the municipality of the twenty-two students we had, to go up to the twenty-six. And to cover this absurd political choice, you are now playing with citizens' intelligence. You are talking about an average, taking into account both one-offs and two-seat and three-seat schools in isolated areas. 75% of the potential of students in our country - almost one million children - you know very well, Minister, and you know that, Mr Mitsotakis, is in classes with more than eighteen students and the vast majority of this one million who lives in large urban centres, with more than twenty-five students per class. What kind of creative accounting is that? The average is the issue, putting in the balance and rooms in remote areas, in islands, in one-seat, two-seat, three-seated schools? Is that what we're dealing with? But why do you say such fatties is the question? Who do you think you're gonna fool with this? Aren't the schools going to open? Aren't parents going to see what classes are their children going to stack in the middle of a pandemic? And my question is why you're not telling the truth. Why do you not say, among other things, that you do not go ahead with reducing but increasing by class, because you do not want to decide on permanent recruitment of teachers. That is the crucial issue. Not even deputys. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You've reduced the number of alternates to almost half. As far as recruitment is concerned, we had predicted ten thousand five hundred permanent - half this year and half of the year. You don't hire anyone. You have also taken no measures for cleaning workers in schools. The same number of hourly cleaners, which were not sufficient to clean up before the coronary, will now be called upon to lay off the ranks and scrubb them thoroughly in the midst of the pandemic. And I ask you: How will that happen? The procedures for providing masks for students and teachers have not yet been completed. I would remind you of the masks that the Minister told us that it was the individual responsibility of every student and his family, but after the saliva and outcry you were forced to collect it and promise to distribute to the students. I now hear you talk - again creatively accountable - that you are so galantic, that you are supporting with 100 million education for the whole day's school because of krone. But here too, you have creative accounts, because you are making an internal redistribution. Cut vouchers into sixty-six thousand beneficiaries. Sixty-six thousand less will be children this year who will be able to access kindergartens and creative employment centres to give the full-day school. I challenge you, if I'm wrong, answer what I'm saying. I'm talking with evidence. You should answer that. If that's not the case, answer. Reply, in any case, how much money you give, how much costs you increase and how much you increase the costs for education and for public health in the middle of a coronary, to see what you have understood from what you have passed as a roller over the Greek society. So you're doing all this. Otherwise, it is the citizens who are to blame and you are not to blame at all. And you know what? If there is anyone who opposes you with arguments, he makes you critical, you rank him to the "sprayed" to the enemies of the people. Well, that is a attitude, a feature that is inconsistent with European democracies. This is - take note of it - a little authoritarian in its perception, the one who criticizes me, who has another viewpoint is with those who are 'frozen', with those who are in the 'against the mask' movement, which I repeat is a common enemy we have to face. Sadly, however, the contradictions trigger it and throw water into its mill. So this false picture of a government supposedly serious and prepared for everything, which makes the human race possible to manage the consequences of pandemic, I believe that it has already begun to collapse as a paper tower from the reality we are experiencing. And you know what? The more one is counting on propaganda, beauty, lie, the more citizens will get angry. And the more you incriminate citizens, as well as anyone who dares to say another point of view, the worse in relation to the image you want to shape for your things. So I would like to ask you in your dentext to do one thing, not to agree with what I am saying to you but to take an initiative of bravery and even take one responsibility, too, to say: 'We have made mistakes, brother, all these months, we have not done everything right. We're not middles. I am not Moses." Go out and say it. Stop targeting young people, when doctors in public hospitals, when teachers, workers and, of course, on a permanent basis, opposition. The country is facing a very tough reality. The problems are very big and the first step to solve is you, as a government, admit that they exist and that many times you are already overrun and that you have made mistakes and taken responsibility and finally stop the hunting of witches and the hunting of deception. Ladies and gentlemen, we say that, even now, there are ways of limiting the spread of both its pandemic and its economic impact. We are therefore not only critical of you. We're already telling you: here and now take action. First of all, now proceed to recruit doctors and nurses. Cover the organic vacant posts in hospitals and stop playing with numbers. Serve schools with educational staff. Cover even last year's number of alternates. Take substantial measures to open up schools. Listen to this, Mr. Mitsotakis. You can now. Share the classrooms in two, starting with the ones that have twenty-six students. You can do it. Take an example from Italy, forming parts of the fifteen students at most. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Take an example from Italy, which equips schools with three million single strands and recruits tens of thousands of teachers. If the answer to that is that they don't have any rooms, then put in the morning lessons. There are ways, there are solutions. Don't ignore the problem, don't play with family anguish. We will have this debate, but I think it is crucial and I want to tell you today. I am referring to European funds. I do not know, of course, your proposals, but I have read the proposals of the famous Pissaridis committee. Look, it is crucial to make use of resources to strengthen the social state, to make use of resources to strengthen public education, to make use of resources to strengthen public health. There is not even one mention on these pages of expenditure that they need in education. Not a single report. I don't know how this can be done. It's a study that we're going to do. Take advantage of, for example, the guidelines that say we need infrastructure, which is modern and compatible with green development. So build buildings in this direction and put school units in a bioclimate perception. We can also find ways for public health. Where there is reference to health, it speaks of a health system not public, not a national health system. Is that how we're gonna move on? Is this how the country will come out of this unprecedented crisis? Aren't we going to take any lessons from the health crisis? With the same recipes, which led us to crises, economic crisis, now pandemic, with these recipes, we're going forward? Do you know how many years we've heard of this? The priority now is to have money to make the capitalisation system in insurance, to make private insurance, and isn't it a priority to build schools, to hire teachers, to build hospitals and primary care, to hire doctors? This, however, is the recipe not of exiting the crisis, but it is the recipe of total social dismantling and it is also the recipe of failure and destruction. When the country enters a very difficult period of economic, health, national, you turn the ground to implement what was not possible for the technocrats who took the keys of our country after the bankruptcy and the Memorandums, i.e. a new era of austerity, cuts, recession, unemployment and structural neoliberal reforms. But because I promised the President I'd be as brief as I can, I'm closing. I will have the opportunity in my dentistry perhaps to go further into the economy. All I want to say is by closing down, is that we have a duty to tell the Greek people the truth. We have a duty precisely because we are facing this threefold crisis, national, health, economic, and the alarm. It is our duty as Opposition and we have a duty to point out that you are going wrong and that it is not to celebrate the fact that we have 15% recession, when the biggest recession we had in the hardest memorial age was 9% and you celebrate that we have 15%, because 15% recession is not a number. They're thousands of padlocks, they're thousands of unemployed, they're thousands of people in despair. That's it. It's not about celebrating. It is for you to worry not to shake our finger, but to accept the criticism and answer with arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u35	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas is called for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone is well known that the concern and fear of the Greek people in the face of the possibility of pandemic taking uncontrolled proportions every day are growing. And this concern is not only reinforced by the increased incidences. It is mainly supported by the fact that your Government has done absolutely nothing to shield the public health system. The lack of effective measures to protect workers in the workplaces, teachers, our children in schools and universities everywhere. The responsibilities are great. In fact, in trying to throw off you the responsibility of increasing cases, you continue to shake your fingers on the people and youth, putting them back in individual responsibility. Except that individual responsibility, that is, the responsibility of each and every one of them to protect himself, them around him, is not established as long as you refuse to take measures to protect the life and health of the people as a whole. As for the relaxation and reassurance you invoke every three minutes, you know very well that these are also fueled by your relics, by the fragmentation of the measures you are announcing. Three-digit cases didn't come out of nowhere. They also emerged from the opening up of tourism - and Mr Hardalias is trying to convince us about the opposite. When you adapted the sanitary protocols to the measures of the very great businessmen of tourism, the big-time, the airline and the ferry companies, what were you expecting? When you almost left the country uncontrolled with some sample checks, what were you waiting for again? It is estimated that at least two and a half thousand respondents from abroad have entered the coronary tourism, without anyone knowing about them, and if the studies are true, and what you say is that an actor positive to the coronary passes it on to at least ten others, then they have made bodies for another twenty-five thousand of our people. What could you have done? You could have fully checked the situation if you had equipment and staff, if you were to implement a plan from the beginning that required a certificate before entering the country. But what did you, gentlemen of the government, do? You played in gambling the demands of big capital in tourism and transport, what the people won with their responsibility the previous period and while you knew there could be a second wave of pandemic, which is not even the special medication. The people in their responsible attitude, while respecting the restrictive measures, have helped to get time, to keep pandemic indicators down. That, after all, didn't you ask him when this unprecedented adventure began? To keep the measures to get time to shield the public health system. We'll tell you what you didn't do that you could have done. You did not do the necessary recruitment of permanent staff to the public health units in order to cover even part of the major shortages that existed before the pandemic. And don't tell us again about the recruitments you've been hiring for. They're exactly the same as the recruits that SYRIZA's government would have done. In other words, the recruitment of certain fixed-term workers from four months to two years, but who replace the previous ones who ended their term of office and were made redundant. So the result is about zero in the clay. Even the number of ICU beds that you've been combing for, barely reached the nineteen. It is very much behind the three and a half thousand beds required in accordance with international standards. What you were saying about the staffing of the public hospitals that were sufficient, and indeed it did not have to be exploited, in addition to provocatively, is also dangerous at the same time, because you consider it normal that the vast majority of chronic patients had no follow-up to their medical surveillance and were excluded from public health units with apparent negative results. Could you tell us what will happen if in the next few months as experts warn about the winter months, do we have a sharp increase in cases, in combination with the other needs for hospitalisation in the ICUs? Will we also live here exactly what the doctors in neighbouring Italy or Spain and the United States have finally lived in? Should they choose who's going to get into the ICU and who's not, which means probably who's gonna live and who's gonna die? [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The pandemic highlights the need for a surplus of staff and infrastructure, so that all current needs and emergency needs can be addressed in full. But this need conflicts with the logic of the cost of the operation of public hospitals, on the basis of business criteria that all of you are inextricably evangelizing. Do you want to tell you what else you would do to make use of the valuable time earned by our people? You would use it to serve, develop and equip the public units of primary health care. Not only did you leave them declared, subordinated, but also part of their staff, you moved it for the on-call needs of the rest of the public hospitals. You went to close a hole and opened others. Today, however, before the pandemic takes uncontrolled proportions, it is necessary to take steps to decisively support the health system with massive recruitment of permanent staff of all specialists in primary health care and in hospitals, health centers, also in the EKA and in the "Help at Home" service. To increase sufficient funding from the state budget to support all public health units for current and emergency needs. To abolish any payment and participation of the people for hospitals, tests, medications. To permanentize health workers, who work with all kinds of temporary employment relationships, without conditions and conditions, such as workers in cleanliness workshops and others, who have been unpaid for several months. Don't make any redundancies. Include heavy and unhealthy occupations and extend the benefit of dangerous unhealthy work to hospital staff and workers in public health structures. I would remind you that the JRC Parliamentary Group had tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject. To fully reoperate all public units, laboratories and others that have been closed or are under operation. To open up all hospitals that have been closed in recent years. Of course, in the event that the pandemic is gigantic, that there should be a plan for the ordering of all private health and welfare structures. To develop at least three and a half thousand ITH beds in public hospitals. Ensure the necessary quantity and quality of protective agents, sanitary materials and others. Especially now, in front of and in the coming winter, we consider the need for universal vaccination of the population above the age of six months with the anti-grain vaccine to be imperative. Of course, with the responsibility of the state to carry out universal and repeated tests of the coronary in the population. We did not expect the pandemic to see that there is a serious problem in the workplace with the lack of measures for the health and safety of workers. But pandemic further exacerbated the situation, since on several occasions the various sanitary protocols became rags. Proof that what you were saying, that for you, human life is of first value, they were hollow words, for the sake of profits of business groups. The fact that health protocols become rampant, the workers themselves say so with their complaints in their unions and do not pretend to be unscrupulous. Do you not know that big-time workers, for example, in many workplaces, only observe words and interpret, as they want, and as the EAFRD Protocol is of interest to them? As soon as the day before, at a work place known as NGO reached the point, raw and cynically, to call on the workplace to do positive asymptomatic cases. Don't you know that in workplaces, with the responsibility of the employer, cases are hidden? Haven't you heard anything about the fact that workers are being informed of a case at work per two or three times, so that it doesn't get sour and the only measure taken is to quarantine for fourteen days the case and the rest of the workers keep working properly, like nothing happens? At the same time, of course, there is a general attack on workers in the name of the pandemic. Thousands of workers were found out of production, with no income. A large proportion of workers and self-employed professionals were invited to survive on average for this entire period. Others in contract suspension are waiting two months to get 534 euros and pay the debts of their households, which, of course, are suffocating without a suspension. Don't tell us that all this is temporary, because everyone knows that the anti-corruption measures are here to stay, because we are in a new deep crisis, as you admit. It is not enough that the protection measures in the workplace have become rampant, which the employer hides cases, you have reached the point where you are also punishing workers. What other than punishment is daily overtime unpaid work for those who enter a preventive quarantine, as if it were their own responsibility? Of course, after the reactions and outcry, the three hours you made them one, but it still doesn't change anything. The punishment remains. The pandemic has opened up the appetite for energism, and you're doing your best to fill it up. After the overtime, there's the Christmas present, which will be cut off for those who've been suspended. All those who would pass by with this little allowance, now instead of a Christmas present, will get a crumb. Not to mention the extension of teleworking, which will be imposed by a unilateral decision of the employer. Therefore, instead of taking protection measures at the workplace, your Government requires further intensification, unpaid work for the workers, while offering new privileges, new grants to various business groups. This is what the European Union's 'SURE' programme offers, warm money in monopolistic groups, money, which will, in the end, be paid again by the workers, by the Greek people, with new wage cuts, pensions, with the Pinochet insurance, with new privatisations, with new taxes, with auctioning of popular houses and foreclosures. All these months, big business has not paid a single euro. In fact, the groups of tourism and transport, which in previous years had huge profitability in the previous crisis, were subsidised from above. The only ones who put a permanent deep hand in the pocket are the workers. Take advantage of the pandemic, to hit the fixed permanent job, the eighth hour, where there is still, of course, putting the workers in the fridge, so that they can be used whenever they want, when they need them, to be paid, as much as they want to. However, along with the fight for part-time, wages, insurance, at the heart of workers' struggle, the issues of protecting their health must also be addressed. We support the demands of the labor unions in the face of this new pandemic wave. I would point out to you some of these: to ensure that everyone works with all the necessary measures to protect health and safety at the workplace. Free testing for workers under the responsibility of the employer and the State. To ensure that there are checks on the avoidance of incidents by the industries. We must now increase public transport services, especially in peak hours. Ensure special-purpose leave with remuneration for those workers who need to stay at home either for the care of patients, for the care of children or for measures to deal with the pandemic, such as in some cases the closure of facilities and disinfection buildings, etc. If, for whatever reason, the worker cannot work in the workplace with guaranteed conditions of hygiene, with the responsibility of the State and the employer, he can obtain a special leave with full remuneration and insurance. To establish joint health committees per company involving employee representatives and qualified scientific staff. In this way, it will ensure that decisions are made on the basis of the medical data and needs arising in workplaces. As far as we are concerned, we will take the lead in the fight for life protection measures and the rights of workers themselves. We will enter the front so that the main home auctions, the electricity and water holidays can be stopped immediately because of the debts of the people's households. By the way, I would like to say that you, like your predecessors of SYRIZA, are baptizing the white one. I am referring to the new bankruptcy code and your attempt to serve him. The new bankruptcy code, however, completes the anti-grassroots hostage framework of the highly indebted people's households and small businesses of the former governments. This is a framework that, over time, moves around the goal of squeeze out the overheads, turning them even into tenants in their homes, to shield only the banks and their portfolios. So you didn't get the pain for the debts of the people's households. The banks' profits are in your head, and that's your pain. Ladies and gentlemen, what can one begin on the issues of education and on how the schools open up and on whether the universities open? A few days ago, the Ministry of Education announced when the schools would open. We waited a week or ten days to find out what after all? Did the anxietys and concerns of parents, teachers and students find an answer? Apparently, no. After all, we did not expect the government to respond, since it is the one making health protocols elastic, even for the operation of schools, which it itself considered necessary and, indeed, in circumstances where the epidemiological burden was less. We expect no guarantee of the necessary conditions for the operation of schools in order to protect health, that the educational process can be carried out effectively, since the government's ministers rightly say that it costs them. Really? Is that your money? Who even pays for this lame public education? It is the people's family who pay, and that is why it has the right requirement for schools to work properly, safely. Can anyone say we didn't expect the second wave of pandemic to come? Scientists said it, the government said it, and perhaps with the anti-popular management that you brought it in faster. Eventually, however, you have done nothing to ensure the opening of schools on better terms for students, teachers and parents in order to avoid co-existence. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will not use dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u37	Continue, Mr President, alas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u38	I'm just letting you know. I'll make it easy for you. I won't do like the previous ones, who leave some for later. I'll say everything I have to say now. So I said that you did not satisfy any of the measures proposed by parents and teachers, based on their experience and direct knowledge of the problems that exist in schools. You did not, in other words, make massive recruitment of teachers, you did not permanently integrate those working years in education, you did not improve the infrastructure in schools, nor did you create any new ones, you did not take any substantial steps to upgrade the health surveillance of schools. You loaded it all into the individual responsibility of those involved, one way or another in the educational process. That's not good enough. It is not enough that you move the finger on the people, on the youth, telling them "very relaxed", you say also plausible, of course, but lies. You say that the average of students per class throughout Greece is seventeen and does not justify concerns about repentance. You're mixing oranges with apples. I will not tell you what a soccer expert said, as if we were saying "the average world cup of football in Greece - Brazil is 2.5". But the evidence is relentless. As it turns out, last year, 57% of those in primary and secondary education had more than seventeen pupils, and 74% of students were in classes with more than seventeen. Especially in Attica, where most of the coronary cases are recorded, 85% of the students are in classes with more than seventeen people. Surely a lot of people, even from here, know very well and live this situation, which even SYRIZA has changed, which now also makes him a part of the gaps in schools, the underfunding of education, the appointing of thousands of teachers, and has a great responsibility. You know all this, ladies and gentlemen of the government, as all the governments so far know, who, when they are called upon to respond to the fair demands of the world of education, with one voice, say that they are costing, the economy cannot stand. Apparently, they mean they can't afford to cut off the fat money they share in groups to shield their profitability. When you turn around, use various well - being scientists who, in practically children’s drawings, want to convince that it is not much difference between a class of fifteen children and a class of twenty - five students. That's what our people see and they're worried about. He feels he's being worked, loses his trust in the government and the state, and that's normal, of course. However, this lifting of confidence in the government makes sense and results, when it is not against the health of our people itself, in the need for education for the children of the people, in other words - and in that we want to be clear in here - in various reactionary conspiracy theories, which also suit the government to identify the claim, demands and normal concern with the backwardness of your pandemic, precisely when your anti-popular management of the pandemic is a carabinasis. Today, more than ever, the necessity of fighting is illuminating, with the contents of modern clearly realistic needs. Because it is not luxury, it is only an absolute priority to place at the heart the need to develop a primary health care network, which will be particularly expressed in schools with the permanent presence of nurses in school units, with provision for the presence of doctors in school groups or even permanent attendance in multitude schools. This is an objective reality - the necessity and must be set as a priority. Because the immediate simulation of thousands of alternates, too, can and must be done. Because every year they make up for themselves. Because permanent appointments also contribute substantially to the continuation of the proper educational process, which, especially during this period, is even more urgent, due to the constant disturbances that exist within the educational process itself. This situation forms unequal conditions for the access of pupils to education; it increases social, cultural and educational disparities which have obviously existed in conditions of total commercialisation of education. In this context it is absolutely realistic and necessary to implement the demand for 15 pupils per class and to avoid conspiracy, as are the experts putting in place, but also to fill in educational gaps that have been created, as well as in order to upgrade, improve educational, teaching work at each school. You know very well that, if you took all these measures in schools in time, there would be no great concern and fear, but you would also close the door to a number of conspiracy theories - which I said before - in irrationalism, in disorientation, which in schools may appear with the 'no to the mask' and the recent mobilizations, which we have seen and seen from the channels as well. By the way, collect your various members, even Ministers, who also do provocative posts - such as Mr Adonis Georgiadis - and who have the courage to put the "not in the mask" in the same bag as "not in NATO, in the European Union" and "no" in other issues, which are political issues. Where is irrationalism, disorientation, conspiracy, with specific political positions, either in agreement with them or disagrees? In the same mistake the President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Genemas, who connected the struggle against the memorials, with me, I don't know what. Of course, he burrowed it somehow there and then corrected it then, but he got it into trouble. They're not like that, gentlemen. Of course, I should like to tell you this: you do not do that by chance. You still want to exaggerate such mobilisations - which, of course, are not too massive - and in which, as you say, they are involved - mainly your world, the one who moves around the New Democracy, the right, the extreme right and goes on to say - to hide the real and genuine claims of parents, teachers and students, who, in addition to others, also have a front in disorientation, irresponsibility and thereby incriminate the popular movement itself, namely the struggles, the people who claim proper and realistic demands. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past few days, on the occasion of and the communication of the bases, the Minister of Education said that it would go ahead with radical changes in universities as well. However, your government's plan reminds you of closed HEIs, to learn the lesson like, while a day-to-day news is that machines are already scaring for new business plans for distance education at the IOIs. The situation in the universities demonstrates, for example, what it means in terms of competitiveness, in terms of 'business, private self-government' - the latter in in introductory terms - that is, the liberalization of HEIs to operate primarily on the development of entrepreneurial and research activities, but that the needs of the students must be seconded to the second degree. In this context, which, in essence, leads to an EEI more committed to the needs of capitalist profitability, the government puts the ball in the administrations of universities. This is exactly the state of the multi-speed SGUs. It is also expressed in the various problems that have arisen in the previous period, but also today, with the differentiated solutions that the various administrations of the IHC give to how, for example, the examination is to be done. The pragmatic and necessary claims we make to universities are, first and foremost, demonstrated by the fact that there is a significant level of infrastructure today and in order to simplify the educational process and to proceed with the research process envisaged in the studies. These infrastructures, the great amphitheatres that some who, of course, host, mainly companies now in order to do their seminars and the variousTHink tank, are given - we say - for the needs of students and to recruit instant training staff, who are waiting with doctoral hands, so that the university course can be properly carried out. This is the main thing to be ensured, so that we have an open GI in terms of protecting everyone's health and following on from the essential educational process. The majority of students, their families, are at the moment really fighting for whether and how far they will be able to continue their studies. They don't know what they're going to do with the expensive rents they're already paying, since your government, like all the previous ones, has left them out without student homes and care. What do you say to all of them? Will they continue to pay a month's rent, to attend though and like - a few lessons and workshops in close proximity, and the others will do so by teleworking? Are you not aware of the problems that already denounce student clubs and even teachers for the problems that the telematics process creates in integrated education, effectively degrading the education they receive? Ensure infrastructure to meet student accommodation needs, rent hotels and, if necessary, for direct increased needs, provide a monthly student accommodation allowance for those who need it. This is what students ask to do so that they can continue their studies. You are talking about excellence when with your policy you degrade the knowledge and supplies received by students, tomorrow's scientists and workers. You are talking about opportunities when your policy leads students to give up their studies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that developments are defined, not only by the course and flaws of the pandemic in our country and internationally, but also by the outbreak, the development and depth of the economic crisis, which has accelerated its pandemic event. Developments are also determined by the exacerbation in addition to the various imperialist competitions in the region and the Aegean, as a whole, of the Eastern Mediterranean. Inside them, Greek-Turkish confrontation and the escalation of Turkish aggression is exacerbated. Of course, all of this, despite their relative self-interest, is not independent of one another and has not coincided in the short term, as you claim. We believe the opposite. They supply themselves, because they are, in fact, manifestations of the same policy, which at its core is ensuring the profitability of monopolistic capital at all levels, the armoring of this development path, that is, the capitalist road, sacrificing the needs of the workers, the people as a whole. For example, even the therapeutic treatment of pandemic, the discovery and supply of vaccine are subject to various intra-capitalist competitions, among large multinational companies in the space, between states and countries. In the end, we believe that this system, which all of you are serving with your policy, is a dead end. On the one hand, the attack on workers, on people's rights, on the name of emergencies and on the other, is triggering competition between capitalist states, on the other hand, their various alliances about who will get more gainful at this stage and at all levels. These competitions relate to both the negotiations on the new financial packages for support to business groups and the control of wealth production sources and the various energy routes. That is why strong states, such as the United States of America, France, Russia, Britain, Italy, Germany, China, have fallen over our territory for who will put the wealth of this region in hand and get the most to share. We've lost count. How many fleets and which countries have been abandoned in the region. Because these competitions are afraid they also lead to warfare. Our people must reject all these blackmailing dilemmas and you know very well what we're talking about. Why are you all working for a goal: for the Greek people to accept the painful compromise of coexistence, as if it were not a coexistence between energy colossals, to accept that his country would be a vast American - naval camp. The events of recent days confirm what we told you in the previous debate. You are preparing the greatest and most painful compromise of feasibility, the one of the conception of maritime zones, with the blessings of course and the plans of your allies. Except that the plans of your powerful allies have only ultimately and ultimately upgraded Turkey to share. We have told you before, again and again: we are simply struggling and will continue to fight, as long as we can, the people will put their own signature on these developments, and we believe that they can, as long as they decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u39	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like, starting with my speech, to thank the Greek Prime Minister, unlike the other political leaders who come, speak at their party audience and do not have the courtesy to listen to their colleagues. I do so elegantly, because I'm tired of this story, coming and leaving. What is the Greek Parliament? Shall we come in and go? Should we say ours and not listen to the opponents? It is appropriate and serious to be here all of us. I sit patiently. All right, Mr. Koutsubas is an exception. Anyway, he's doing whatever he wants. But the rest of you should have been here. I would therefore like to begin with what Mrs Gennimata said, with which I imagine we all agree, on the culture of rape which has been heard by a channel, and I am referring to the well-known history of 'Big Brother'. This is how I begin for one reason, because it proved to be how flawed the responsibilities of the National Radio Board are. They were after me for six months. They can't catch me from nowhere. But because you've been transmitted to YouTube this story, it can't interfere with the PSE. There's a legal vacuum. We have said so in committee, but unfortunately you are not listening. Parliament legislates, creates independent authorities, but does not give these people competences or supplies, in any case. But we should be talking about a culture of rape and we all condemn it. No one heard in here talking about a culture of extremism from the channels. All channels, from morning to night, have Turkish sirials at the same time as the country and the Prime Minister and the government are facing a major national issue, very well the bad one, can have their opinions. But we have been talking about culture of extremism for the past five to six years, perhaps more. No one's talking about that. For the culture of rape, which we have all condemned and well done, you have all made announcements and done well. I'm with you. But does anyone dare to speak about the culture of extremism? I don't understand why I have to listen to the Turkish language all the time. Why would I listen to Turkish all day on the channels? I would like to say something which, unfortunately, Prime Minister, and you have escaped from all the political leaders. On September 6 and 7, do you know what had happened, since it is timely? He became the pogrom of the Greeks in Istanbul in 1955 and not a single mention was made by either one of us. Why? The "Night of Crystals" was for Constantinople the 6th and 7th of September. Am I wrong, Mr. Loverdo? No one mentioned the 'Crystal Night'. I say this without sovinism, militarism. But remember what happened. It was a designed provocation by the Turks to slaughter a hundred thousand Greeks of the City, not one and two, hundred thousand Greeks! Seventy - one congregations were destroyed, forty - one schools were burned, eight newspapers closed, four thousand shops were looted, two thousand houses were looted, four hundred rapes were officially - over two thousand Greek women in the city were raped - and there were about forty dead and three hundred injured. Nobody's mentioned. Why? Tell me one reason why I understand. If you don't shave your historical memory, you're doomed to taste again what was before decades ago and that's what the Greek Solution is trying to do. We are trying, based on the judgment of man, man, to talk about self-evident things. I listened to the Greek Prime Minister with a political commitment, and I would say that I am stylishly saying that 'What has not happened in decades has not been done in a few months' - I do not know how many months - and all the New Democracy colleagues applauded. Excuse me, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have you not been ruling decades too? Who was ruling? Mera25 or the JRC or we, new parties? Decades are the PASOK - New Democracy, New Democracy - PASOK, Collapsing, a little bit of SYRIZA five years - they messed up anyway - and then you came back again. I don't understand, I mean. You've been ruling for decades. Unless Mr. Mitsotakis wants to show Samara and Karamanlis that they didn't do anything as Prime Minister. Let's talk about this. The Prime Minister said about the 15.2 % recession. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, it reminds me of the one who goes on the first floor with the elevator and says that I'm on the first floor. But the elevator had gone 25% down, i.e. two and a half floors down and you climbed a floor. We had a recession of 25%, due to a decade's memorial. So 15.2% is prosthetic. Let's get serious. The numbers everyone interprets them as they wish, but a man speaks to you, who also has business and understands self-evident. You probably don't know about economy. You probably don't know anything about the market. I will say this: why did the Prime Minister talk to us about the semester, since tourism was not affected in the first quarter? Tourism is in the second quarter, if I'm not mistaken. You know the count, when it starts upside down, creates other concepts and other terms. Of course, I would like to tell the Prime Minister something, because I have noted too much of what he has said. I want, when I hear the opponent politically, to ask him then to answer me. He said the country's Prime Minister: "Scientific and substantiated data and logic." Who can disagree with the very serious argument of the Prime Minister? I want him to testify to me, though. I tabled what the World Health Organisation said about children and masks under twelve years of age. You can testify to me, because I will answer that by means of arguments and through business conflict you can find a synthesis of ideas. I would like you to show me, however, scientifically, what the Prime Minister, his ministers, myself, have said, because I see many scientists whose names you are using, Prime Minister - I will tell you in a few moments - to spy and contradict. When they wake up, they say other things. When he comes in this afternoon, they say other things. When the month passes, they say something else. Next month they change it upside down and I will prove it to you here in your own statements that you continue the contradictions. You have created fictitious dilemmas, Prime Minister, because I have listened carefully to your words and said 'or lockdown or immunity of the herd'. Why should there always be the two extremes, or the lockdown, 'close the country', or the immunity of the herd? Can't a government, as Mr. Tsipras said, really do, really do, so that we don't go to the two extremes? The question, therefore, is an undeniable fact. What did you do six months? I didn't hear what the government did for six months, really. Let me tell you: Family doctor, so they don't get conspired in the big hospitals, do the citizens? Oh, no. Can every citizen with symptoms go out and run a free test? Oh, no. To make a planned surgery in the hospital, Mr. President, you must have run a coronary test, go and pay for it. If I want to do a scheduled surgery, I have to go pay for the test first, to go do my surgery in an outpatient, i.e. payback. I'm just saying things to understand that clearly and you can't do everything. Can I tell you one more thing? The Prime Minister's position is very difficult, that is undeniable. If someone here thinks it's easy to deal with the coronary and how the country can handle it, it's wrong. The problem is, however, that the Prime Minister does not hear and the government does not hear. Go on, on national issues, you have agreed on a few things, I understand that now internally in the national spheres. On the coronary we could gather all the political leaders together, propose each one separately and discuss seriously. You don't. The Prime Minister said in his speech: "We borrow at nominal interest rate 1,1%". But we have deflation of 1.8%, so the real interest rate is 2.9%. Don't play with numbers! They also expose you and your Government and all of you! It is right, therefore, to compare the real interest rates with other countries rather than nominal rates. That's what economic theory says, you know. The rest is made here by people, by the neo-democrats, by the Syrians, by applauding the Syrians and by getting out of here satisfied that our party audience is listening to us, unfortunately - and I want you to hear that - is 45% of the Greeks. The remaining 55% or not voting or abstentioning or consciously choosing not to vote. So with lies we led the Greek people to depopulation. Man is a political being from his nature and we have made the great crime demilitarise the Greeks, who are as a people, as a civilization. deflation - for those who do not know theory and economy - is the worst disease in the economy, the worst. There's no worse for the economy. I say this to the Prime Minister, because he says to me "1.9% we're borrowing". Okay, the difference with other economies is essential, inherent weaknesses, we rely on tourism, others on production. So he compared Sweden with Greece. Objection and comparison are relevant. Sweden produces, we produce, not tell you what. So bubble theory, theory, theory! All industrialised countries are therefore borrowing at negative interest rates. All of them! We borrow with 1.1% and we're happy. When a country borrows at negative interest rates, it means that it can - if its economy is properly planned - be real growth. Again, we have interest rates, but here you are forgetting something fundamental, that the European Central Bank is buying bonds of our own already over EUR 9.5 billion, so it is pushing them and artificially down. And if balance comes, I'm afraid that interest rates will go up again and you'll run and you won't get there. In other words, you say false documents to the Greek people, which do not apply, they do not rely on economic theory. He mentioned a six-month recession instead of a second quarter, for the Prime Minister to look forward to the recession. He said "15.2% of the second quarter". The first quarter is not affected by our tourist model. So either we add these or we remove them. Decide, because as far as I know, the Ministry of National Economy every three months provides evidence. Now why did you get out every six months because it suits you? He also said that measures of 15.2 billion from 24.5 billion in the past. I don't know, I'm going to comment on this, because the numbers aren't coming out again. Or good arithmetic you don't know in New Democracy or cook them again. Prime Minister, you have an obsession - I see it positive - with the responsibility of the citizen. Yeah, they're responsible citizens, they're responsible citizens, they're responsible citizens. But I don't see any government responsibility either. In other words, when they 'heard' us - within introductory words - the citizens in the way we cultivated, and well we did, the whole political system, and we said 'watch out, watch out', they were good citizens. They just got tired and tired, they don't believe you, not you, but everything we say, because we didn't convince them, you say 'unresponsible' to them. I don't know. Let's talk seriously. So, apart from individual responsibility, there is also government responsibility, because in our country we are talking only about political responsibility which is not criminalised. But there is also the government responsibility that is criminalized and at some point the mistakes of the ruling must be criminalised, so that we do not say "it's okay, brother, go to the next". And I say this because there is no accountability and there is no more than what we are saying directly about what is wrong. And I don't mean to go to jail, but really to be punished. But you consider the elections to be 'Silloam'. Elections were held, and it's over. But it's not like that. Decades have now accumulated, deindustrialised the country, lost our shipping, lost the primary sector. All governments have a share of responsibility, and today you're acting like you don't know anything about everything that's happened. I heard about an allowance policy. I heard it from both SYRIZA and the JRC and the PASOK. Listen! Let this allowance story stop. And here I agree with the government that the subsidy policy is in the wrong direction. We must not give allowances for a man sitting. We need to give businesses money to open up jobs. The Greek doesn't want an allowance, he wants a job. I've made that clear in my head. In other words, as an entrepreneur, I prefer the government to give me this money which gives me the allowance and to get ten, twenty-two employees, so that I can choose five, six at the end of the day. Those with benefits I've heard since Č74. Here we have reached the benefits and the lack of planning for jobs. Some people are at ease with allowances because they create party armies. However, they forget that unemployment is the death of the economy. And I insist on that. Friends and friends, I, unlike Mrs. Gennimata, will not be at the ID. I did it as a congressman, and I never went there. I won't be this year. And last year we weren't. Why? Because I'm a Macedonian. And I ask you: in a business forum, as it was every year - this year, of course, it is a little different - what are politicians doing? To realise that the Prime Minister must go, as each Prime Minister must be there. Tell me you're the rest of us, why are they going? I remember before, Mr. Kalafatis knows, streets were closed, episodes were made, tear gas fell, the exhibition closed for a day, two days, there was a mess. Only the Prime Minister should go and not the political leaders. There's no need. Of course, I heard a very good, unmistakable friend who told me this. He told me that the ITH should have changed its name and said: "Dirk Intrusion of Thessalonians", because they all came there and promised them different things, such as by-pass to airports and roads to spaceships - Mr. Poppas - and then they left and forgot. That's the truth. Where's the subway? 'It's going to be up to Kalamaria. Metro worldwide until the airport exists. We're going to Kalamaria, and we're still watching. I don't know when it's gonna happen in 2023. Where's the regional we've been looking for for so many years to dismantle our town? Where are the textiles? Even the Egnatia Street fills with toll. I would like to say to you, in other words, that with this IGC you have to understand that we are forcriminating on the entrepreneurship of entrepreneurs who invest in the IGC. Politicians have nothing to do with this. Only the Prime Minister, any Prime Minister. I say this clearly to be consistent. And if you take all the Prime Ministers' speeches from ^81 onwards, you will see that everyone says the same thing, Metro, regional, development projects. Everybody says the same thing. And to go to Halkidiki, my dear Stavros Kalafatis, we do forty-five times our cross and we don't have a road to Halkidiki. What can we talk about? I say this to some people to understand that other political exploitation and other business exhibitions of Thessaloniki. It's different things. I am not going to go and have chosen it for years now, and I am not doing it now. As a guest, as a citizen I can go. Now let's go to the rest so the time doesn't push. And I address the New Democracy colleagues and the Greek Prime Minister. Prime Minister and colleagues, science means I know well. And for those who don't know, he's coming out of the caretaker, which means I'm 100% sure. Science, that means. The rest is theories. So let's go to the masks now. You're making a fight to force our masks. We'll talk about it. I'm not against the masks. I would never be against the health of the citizens. But I have questions. Scientists, who you "saving" did not convince me. And I'm talking about kids under twelve years. We need to make it clear, because there's a distortion. Once you disagree with the system, they call you "sprayed". As soon as you tell them, "I have another point of view, and I have to argue," you are shot. I don't mean literally, in the brain. In other words, the other view needs to be framed so that there can be only one view. That's the beginning of fascism. And I don't think there's a man in here who sees his fascist ideology. So let's actually go. We are not saying 'yes' or 'no' to the masks. Never. But for the 12-year-olds, I have questions down there. No protests have been made by the 'flying' and'sprayed'. They're complaining about kids. And let us not generalise our crisis as a foundation, that we are right and wrong, because we will still isolate them, we will make them our enemies. We must convince them that it is compulsory and we must all put masks on - both the young children and the six-year-olds and the seven-year-olds - or don't take them, don't call them. I want to ask the Prime Minister something, since he's here. In Heraklion, Prime Minister, at an event the police and the prosecutor designated the law and said "prosecution to those who make the mobilization". In Chios, who marched to Moria, where the others had a religious ceremony and were there on each other, why didn't they prosecute? Why should you be hunting only for the Greek and not the others who are illegal? I remember Constantine. Prime Minister, he was talking about you. He said he'd put you in jail, you and Metarakis, out here, with five hundred, six hundred people, on each other. And no one was prosecuted. The Constantine of Antarctic - either by sons or by heights, as suits everyone. It happened a month and a half ago, Mr President. And I was the only one who defended the Prime Minister in here. No one else spoke. An accidental guy who instigates what Pakistani exists and whatever episode exists. And he wanted the Prime Minister in jail, the bars. Let's go to the next one. According to the WHO - I will tell you what the World Health Organisation says because it is what most of you invoke - the mask is not necessary for children under the age of 12. It's on the website of the World Health Organisation. I put it in the Minutes last week. Let's not get tired. Let me not testify again. There's no need. Search the Minutes. Why does he say that? Because we need to take account, he says, of the impact on learning and psychosocial development. I, Mr President, was about four hours with the mask. They blushed my eyes, you know, like my colleagues. Imagine a child six, seven hours. Your eyes are red, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u41	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u42	It's not from insomnia. It's from a lack of oxygen. You're wrong. It's from the difficulty of inhaling oxygen. Is the teacher doing the cop in a seven-year-old child? I'm not saying we don't take any action. I say we take a serious look at this. Elementary children - listen to it - must see the alterations of expression in the faces of their teachers. The World Health Organization says so, not Velopoulos. I can say what I want, I can be shot, "blocked", "sprayed." Call me whatever you want. I am trying to argue on the basis of your arguments and to prove to you in science now - I am diligent - that you have made a mistake, that it is not absolutely certain what you are saying at all. Here's what the World Health Organization says again: For emotional development and for the formation of proper joints there is a problem. So what do the kids want? Emotional growth and jointion. And that makes sense. Can you talk to the mask? How's the kid gonna talk to his teacher with the mask? How will he communicate with him? You all have children, most of us have or have - my daughter is big anymore - children. Tell me how this seven-year-old kid will communicate with his teacher, how will he talk to him, ask him? How? It can't be done. And I'm not just talking about the child's idiosyncrasy of reacting. Let go of that. Say they've become robots all the way you want to do it, and they're dying to do it. The rest? I'm saying that to understand it. I'm telling you to understand it. Also, the little boy, when he has the mask here in front, cannot have his attention in the classroom. It can't be. It can't be done. It's impossible. Do we understand that? Listen, I could say other things about the mask, but I will say a few countries that the Prime Minister has avoided. Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Russia. The masks are not mandatory at any level of education. In Poland they are not mandatory within the school hall. Let me tell the Minister something. Say that a kid has dyslexia - he doesn't seem very much, but he does, because Mom and Dad didn't deal with her, or you say he has a problem with hearing. I want you to understand that all this can be done. It's hard. I understand that it is difficult for the government to find the golden incision, but let's just sit here and talk about the self-evident, not 'inhibited', they want to put their children's masks on, the crazy and unbalanced. We're putting them across the street right now. Listen. Poland: Not mandatory within the school hall. UK: Only secondary school students only in public areas and only if Lockdown is imposed in their areas. Scotland: Only secondary school students and only in public areas. France: Lessons over 11 years of age with a mask. Germany: Per State. Let's say, in Bavaria it's not that mandatory, it's more flexible. From secondary education and above. The WHO has uploaded videos, ladies and gentlemen - February 2020 - which clearly states that the masks do not protect. Take the video and watch it. Even in the mask packaging itself - I tabled it in the Minutes the other day - it is stated that it does not protect from the coronary. Many of the masks you get from the supermarket write it down. So tell us, Mr Ministers - not the Prime Minister - that: if a child has symptoms, raises a fever, what is the protocol to be followed? Are we isolating it? Do we put it in quarantine? We create a complex for him that "You're the bad guy, are you the vehicle, sit there, in the corner and don't talk?" Tell me you: Would you like your child to take it to a corner in another room and leave it there and have it next week all typing that it has a coronary? Understand what's going on. I'm saying it with soul pain, because we've had kids most of us in here. I don't have anything with you guys. You guys really do. And I say this in a vague way, because the parents are concerned and you must listen to them, not let them go by saying'spooked'. Guys, they do. The fact that there are some of them who are a little extremist to see it, to discuss this as well. After all, there are extremists in every party. Aren't there on SYRIZA? Aren't there in New Democracy? I mean the extremists - I'm not saying bad people - in their perceptions. Everywhere there are, but do not generalize the special: the principle of fascism. I would also like to say about what has been said from time to time by the scientists invoked by the New Democracy, Mr President. Symptoms - listen - to 'OPEN' on a morning show by Mr Pavlopoulou: 'My masks do not protect healthy people. If you wear a mask, in about two to three hours it will be wet, it will be filled with dust and it will probably be a danger.” Symposium again on the morning show of Paulopoulos: "The mask protects the patient only so that the patient does not pass on the virus to the healthy." Symbols: "We cannot limit children, so it is something that we will take seriously in terms of the number of pupils per class". The only solution, ladies and gentlemen, is to simplify students. The rest is fairy tales. We have rooms for ten or fifteen people. Can't you do it? We've got a problem. Understood. Can you? Problem solved. So since we cannot tell the Greek people the truth, do not cook scientific data. Symptoms in the main issue of "SKAI" with Nikos Stravelakis: "The mask helps us. It is absolutely essential that we do not relax from there on, of course, they wear the masks in enclosed spaces." He said it yesterday. That is, until a week ago, he was saying other things. Greek listened to them. Now he's listening to something else. He woke up one night, someone told him something in the ear, someone spoke to him, God, he had an epiphany and changed it. That's not science. Don't talk to me about new data, because science doesn't have new data. When you are a scientist, you are talking about the specific facts that apply, otherwise you say 'I think'. It's not science. The coroner is like this and it's coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u43	I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u44	I don't want a vacation. Let's go to Mr. Chiodra. Tsiodra March: "Children are easily coronary." April Chiodra: "Children do not get easily coronary". May Chiodra: "Children cure the coronary". Jesus Christ also became. Tsiodra June-July: "Your neighborhood children are teasing me, so I put all my masks on." That's what Chiodra said, that's what the people hear. Listen. Scientists may be scientists, but that's what the Greek people hear, that's what they see in the channels. How can we convince them now? How can the Prime Minister get out here? No matter what he says, he's hitting himself up here with us, we're not going to convince him. Don't you understand? We won't be convinced. Chuckris comes out, who's on the Ministry team, if I'm not mistaken, listen here, and I'm shocked. Chicken, professor of microbiology. January 2020: Influenza virus is transmitted by a person to a person through respiratory secretions, i.e. by coughing or sneezing, either directly or through contact with an infected surface. He said it then. Today listen to what he says: "The speech is the most frequent way to transmit the virus." Don't talk. That's what he says. He said it in "MEGA": "The most frequent way of transmission is when we talk loudly, when we shout, when we sing, when we laugh and it goes out. The virus is transmitted less often by cough, sneezing or even by hand." That is to say, 'Don't talk, don't laugh, Greece is in danger'. That's what people hear. Who's to believe? This gentleman is here. I have the interview. I'll give it to the Minutes and that one. You can't make politics like that. It's not your fault. I repeat. It is not the Prime Minister's fault that it is not the ministers' fault, it is not our fault, but you cannot convince them that it is our fault. Don't beat them up. You let the scientists say whatever they want for a little publicity. Now listen to more. Imathasian scooter. Lebanese opinion is quite right and says "the self-criteria of scientists". Let's agree. He needs attention. So let's go. Worms, infectious: “Below five years of age, no one should wear a mask.” Eva Giannoulis: "There is no literature referring to the safe or non-use of a mask by children". Psychologist. Spiros, a neurosurgeon: "The mask reduces oxygenation. There are several kinds of masks. Not everything does for everyone." Gorbazakis, pediatrician: “It may be a source of microbes as a filter without education. Up to a certain age they cannot be trained." Deleine, a well-known oncologist: "The use of a mask for children." Dimopoulos, dean N.C.E.: "Possibly incomplete adaptation to the mask to younger children". I'm talking about it as kind and elegant as possible. I want to tell you something's wrong. There's something wrong with you. Something's wrong anyway. Let's go to the proposals for our health. Focus on the maintenance of distances. The only solution for the coronary is distances, gentlemen. Whatever we say about the rest, this is not without them. I'm not even talking about it. Family doctor. If it were fully implemented, it could take the test, and the doctor himself, informing the vulnerable groups and not go to the poor citizen to give 120 euros to run a coronary test. The use of a school mask should be decided on by municipalities at local level, in cooperation, but for children over 12 years old. Can I tell you something else? I've heard some cowboys here, this way of imposing the vaccine. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. These "enforcement" belong to other times, because as many of you say, science is science. Enforcing a mask, imposing a vaccine means authoritarianism, doesn't mean democracy. There must be genuine processes and discussions to decide to impose. You don't impose on democracy anything. You speak to democracy, you discuss, you decide, and scientists help you. Let's go to S.H.I.E.L.D. I could say a lot of things, but, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you something. Listen, I didn't hear anything about hiring. At the Hippocrates of Athens has recently been received a magnetic tomographer and is even to be launched by the Minister - by you, Minister? - without the qualified staff being recruited. So we're taking a spaceship, but we don't have the spaceman. We're taking a machine, but we don't have the staff. The main thing is the use of the gun. Best aircraft to have, F57, F35 or I don't know what else, if you don't have a good pilot, useless is. Prisoners' safety through hospital treatment. There are too many proposals. We've submitted them in writing. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] But, Prime Minister, I would like to say something to you, which has bothered me personally: inability of the National Center for Blood to carry out a coronary test. That really bothered me, Prime Minister. Where are we going? It's been six months. Also, the administration of the 1st Ministry of Health urges hospital administrators to conclude a private diagnostic test called ‘Central Lab S.A.’. - Medical Diagnosis Group'. So the public health system, the strongest, the strongest part of a state that is health and the other one saying: "Go to the private"? Christ and God bless you! Head of Epidemiology Professor, EMCDDA, this gentleman. He left - he says - from there when he took up his duties when you put him somewhere. So he was responsible there and sent them elsewhere. I mean, I'm putting a guy in, I'm paying him, but this guy's sending people to private people to make money for private people. How elegant is that and how right? You tell me. So there wasn't for six months. His statement: “I am a university, I have the right to cooperate with private sector, the law allows it. I neither knew nor had been assigned to the diagnostic control centre. After all, I have been away for days." And he informed us. I don't have anything with the man. The law allows it, but because I want to be myself with documents here, I have here, ladies and gentlemen, for all these good children who speak to us on the channels a paw of "DENGY". They're not mine. Listen to the names. Daicus. He's got 735,000 euros. It's from the university. It's their money. Chiodras, 378,000 euros. Plus, 107,000 euros. Majorkin, 538,000 euros. Total EUR 1759,000. Listen. Can I just say it's an investigation? Shall we agree? Do you want us to agree it's research and pay the pharmaceutical companies? Come on, Minister. Yanne's buying, Yannis drinks is here. Understand, if you want to understand. If you are a doctor, your right. I'll say what I think. If you want to do a job, don't make those responsible talk 'cause they have interests, gentlemen. They have interests of selling drugs. Don't you understand? Put others who don't do that kind of work. You have to put them in and yell after and protest? You're putting me in charge of a guy who's doing the job with medication? Are we all right? Aren't there any other scientists who don't take them anyway? And you're protesting? One and a half million euros? And who's gonna believe him? In "DENMARK" anyone enters and can see them. That's what I'm telling you. He sees that Velopoulos speaking on the channel in favor and says a number of things about the mask or the vaccine has taken 300 grand. He won't believe him. I'm trying to tell you what to do. If you don't understand it, your problem. What can I do to you? It's your problem. I have said the numbers and I will submit to the Minutes and the papers so that others do not believe, those who are scientifically responsible for programmes that are often financed by pharmaceutical companies. That's it. You want to do an investigation, gentlemen? You do research, but the one who's doing research with both the university and the pharmaceutical industry, you don't put him in charge - so simple - because there's the gray after. Now we're going to the 'NEW YORK TIMES'. New Research, 29 August 2020. I came here with arguments to talk to you. You want to hear me? Listen to me. I'll say it again, though. Under twelve years of age a child cannot wear a mask. I proved it to you. I said what the scientists say, what the WHO says. It's your topic from now on. We're across the street. Show me what scientific protocols are said to be 100% covered and to discuss this. I'm fine with it. So let's go. New investigation. Tests on the C19 PCR are too sensitive to be useful in the spread assessment. Three COVID - 19 Tests. I'm talking about the COVID-19 test we're doing. In three sets of test data collected by officials up to 90% of those who showed positive brought almost no virus. I mean, in the tests they did, they were thought to be positive, but they didn't have a virus. These are incredible things. I don't understand, Mr. Ministers. Mr. Kikilia, Mr. Chardale, why are you counting asymptoms? Why should we measure asymptomatics. I know: I have a virus, I have symptoms. First time I've seen, guys, virus or virus with no symptoms. In the medical case is someone who has at least one symptom of illness. How do we get cases here? Tell me about it. That's not my question. It's Professor Phillips from Berlin. We have more good teachers in here. I see them. We have more good doctors here than Professor Phillips. I'm saying that to make people understand. Let's go to the other one. Equally contaminant, but not a case. I don't get it. Another case, another body. According to the Babiniotis dictionary, the occurrence is the occurrence of infectious disease symptoms. What's he gonna say asymptomatic? I don't get it. Maybe I don't know the science of medicine. Some people know her better. Of course, abroad, other people say. English Dictionary, Babiniotis, second edition, third version, page 963. We're going now, and in the good time with the vaccines, because I heard Mrs. Gennamas being vertical, to have vaccines. Health Commissioner's statement. Listen, gentlemen. You have children and you're all partners in something that's going to happen. Stella Kyriakidou. I am telling you the statement: 'The decision to support the vaccine proposed by the company 'ASTRAZENECA' is based, among other things, on risk sharing'. What does that mean? The health commission said so. You're a doctor. Risk sharing what does it mean? That the pharmaceutical company that takes out the vaccine shared the risk? Commissioner for Health Stella Kyriakidou for the vaccine 'ASTRAZENECA', the specific one you say is coming out now. The commissioner says so. Risk sharing. Is there anyone in here who will let his child and himself share the risk of any side effects? Is that what you're telling us? Is that what we're gonna do? Is that what we're gonna play with? Rud Dumper, member of the UK's highest executive group: "In the contracts we have entered into we ask for protection from claims for compensation". The company says so. Listen to what they are asking: Mr President, do you hear what they are asking for? Don't be able to bring an action if it's having side effects. Are we all right? What are we talking about in here? For most countries it is acceptable to take this risk on their shoulders because it is in their national interest. The company! He gives you your vaccine, my Admiral, do it, but it's your responsibility. Please, ladies and gentlemen, it is very serious to see them superficially. She's very serious. If that is the case, if you do not believe, a delegation in Greece, a health commissioner. Her statement is here. I'll testify to her in the Minutes, because I'm warm and irritated. It can't be done! Convince me that I'm wrong, son! How can we go blind? Guys, grandchildren, we all have. I also want to close my prototype here, and I apologise for the tension, but I want to be at least consistent with what I believe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u45	You pulled the coronary out of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u46	I don't have a problem, thank God. I've done a test. The government, then, dear colleague, has passion for governance, but it is wrong. ‘Destination’, ‘false’. A letter makes a difference, the lamp and the pie. Passion with wrong, then, have only one letter. Do you know what the difference is? Passion for governance is yours and you enjoy it. But your mistake is paid by the Greek people. Don't make such a mistake with the issue of vaccines. Don't make mistakes with the mask. I'm telling you that. In conclusion, let me say: The Greek Solution entered here with a rationale of depositing soul, tabling proposals and arguments. We are neither sprayed nor shot, nor shot, nor greasy, nor overpatriots, nor fascists, nor Nazis. We are Greeks thinking and you will allow us even now to remain worthy of beings. We are thinking, judging, looking, proposing, fighting civilizedly, but always with arguments. I would therefore like the government to think seriously about it, because I think this is how schools open up, these twelve-year-old children by six will be mobile bombs. This is where we went to school, and we used to change ties and pens between us. He's going with Mickey's mask and he's leaving with Gufy. They'll trade her together and they'll be mobile bombs. You can't handle a child. It can't be done. I'm saying this because we all had kids. Everyone you don't have is your right and your choice, but we do, we know. You can't handle a little kid, you can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u47	The President of the Parliamentary Group of Mera25 Mr Ioannis Varoufakis now has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are late to have this debate. We should have made it in June. We, as Mera25, supported the measures from the very beginning. We did what the Prime Minister asked. We talked to our public, to our world, about the importance of complying with the restrictive measures, about the importance of not taking this terrible virus loosely and lightly. We did not stand up to political costs. We talked to our own people and you know there were many of our own people who just because they have no trust in power, they scepticized the measures. We told them 'no, the government is right' and we continue to do so in terms of the importance of the mask. We respond to what the Prime Minister has asked. But we have warned, from the outset, since March, that the period of blind quarantine must be a period of preparation and that it is two things that you must do as government. You can't do everything, but two things you had to do. The first was to organize a network for mass repetitive tests. And the second seven thousand appointments of permanent staff of nurses and doctors to the ESS. We had said that all along. You ignored us. On 4 June I tabled a timely question to the Prime Minister without any opposition, in which I put specific questions. First, how did you take advantage of the two-month blind quarantine to organise the mass tests considered necessary internationally? How did you take the two months to organize health structures to withstand the second wave? And the third question I asked in that timely question is how do you plan to open the schools in the autumn? The Prime Minister chose not to answer. If you were prepared then, on 4 June, it would be an excellent opportunity to come and tell us what preparations you were doing to prepare the Greek people. Today, three months later, we know the answer. You weren't prepared. But you chose not to prepare yourself. I do not blame you, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, for incompetence or frugalness. The preparation we have proposed simply required things that conflict with very specific private interests what we call parasitic oligarchy. The public network for mass tests conflicts directly with the interests of private diagnostic centres. The mass recruitment of the seven thousand permanent nurses and doctors who, according to your Ministry of Health's establishment plan, are necessary to get the ESS where it should be after ten years of monumental collapse, we know that it is the nightmare of private clinics. So you left public health exhausted, left the people unprotected to avoid harming these interests. You come here today to pretend you're in control. You don't have him. Today the government of Great Britain announced that they are entering the list of mandatory quarantine for visitors returning to Britain, Lesvos, Tinos, Serifos, Mykonos, Crete, Zakynthos, Santorini. It's a simple example. The worst is that our crisis is that you would like to have control, you would like to do all we say, but you prefer not to gain control if the price should be to harm the interests of the people. During the summer, where we went, we saw the results of your voluntary oligopoly. We went to a hospital after the quarantine in Crete, Thessaloniki, Rhodes, Corfu, and there, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, we found doctors and nurses exhausted, resented, angry and scared. We found new donations of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, without reagents. We have seen infinitely few recruitments of new permanent nurses and doctors. Nearly zeros. They were taking someone with twelve months or twenty-four months of contracts. It is not easy, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, for a nurse to go to a regional hospital of EUR 800 a month, if he does not know whether he will stay or stay over one or two years. That is why we ask you and we want you to tell us responsiblely in your dentistry, Prime Minister. How many departures of medical and nursing personnel have we had during your own administration in the last year and a half? It's just a simple question. A number, please. Secondly, how many legal recruitments have been completed? Not how many have been scheduled but how many have been completed. Is it true or is it not that you are delaying paying overtime to hospital doctors? Tell us. It applies or does not apply that you are trying to fill the existing gaps by eliminating doctors and nurses as their organisations denounce, for example OENGE. Is it true or is it not true that there were doctors who, although suspected cases, continued to work because if they stopped working, would they close up significant clinics? We told you since March that there would be a need for both permanent centres and mobile workshops where citizens would be able to carry out free and repeated tests. Prime Minister, you referred to the application that it could not work. The only reason he couldn't work is because there wasn't a test. She can't run herself, guide citizens when they haven't done a test. What have you done these months when we were begging you to organise this public network for massive tests? Nothing. No permanent centres, no free tests, no wallet at the price of private tests, no worthwhile mobile workshops. No thought about magazines, every week, every fortnight in employees, in schools, in nursing homes, in refugee structures. As if international experience has not shown that these are necessary. Another small question, but important: Is it true or not that it imposed on you the business lobby not to refer to cases per city, per neighborhood, but only per region? I wish that's not the case, which we know is happening. But tell us: Why are you sending the tests of public hospitals directly to private research centres? Which one of you is politically responsible for not ordering reagents in time when you opened the country's borders? Prime Minister, the least you owe the Greek people is an apologies for them. At least tell us that the reduction of tests, which this failure brings, is the result of an incapacity, that it is not part of an organised plan to strengthen private clinical and diagnostic centres. When you opened the border, 'bas and saved something from tourism' - you said it - we warned you. You said and I heard you very carefully, and that makes sense, you tried to save what you can from tourism. You spoke of four million instead of the thirty that would normally come. It's money that our people depend on it, that's right. But we asked you a question before 4 June. Was it worth it? If you look at this as an investment, this money was worth first of all, in relation to the greatest risk to which society and the second in the capitalisation that you are talking about, for the good image of Greece in tourism of time? Because I told you - I don't know if you heard this - today, a number of our islands have entered the British quarantine list. So the capital and capitalisation you're referring to if you see it on cost-benefit terms, it seems that your crisis was wrong. You replied to us - and it was in a personal conversation we had - that you have in your patronage the excellent algorithm - which you mentioned today - by Mr. Drakopoulos if I am not mistaken, from Los Angeles, from the UCLA, which directed you to perform the best number of tests per flight, depending on the origin of the passengers, depending on their characteristics. Well done for the algorithm, he was very useful. But we have asked another question then. How will the inhabitants of this country be protected when the positive samples from the tests carried out on the basis of this algorithm exceed the ability of your staff to track down those who have already entered the country with your own algorithm? That's what we had no answer to. You have closed the summer theaters that kept all your own directives - not officially, but informally with the mayors, we know what happened - but you left a bar that did not comply with any directives. A choice showing your relationship with culture. And when the knot arrived at the comb, you set the limit at midnight, like the virus is the reverse Cinderella. Everything about the show is, in other words. Prime Minister, we really don't think this is incompetent. We believe that you chose not to prepare yourself, because this preparation required things that conflict with the interests you serve. We see it with the tests and with the premium for the expensive private diagnostic centres. We saw it here at some point in this Chamber when you came to answer the question of what you meant in your communications to the Greek people when we were talking about armoring the National Health System. And you told us PPP: public-private partnerships. In other words, the State will once again put back on the private, the private and secure risk and the public mess. Squeeze of the ERC. That's what you told us. Today we are looking at all of you in the eyes and we are telling you very well: we know what you have done this summer: nothing, voluntarily, risking public health in favour of the private sector that by definition and construction cannot help to combat the pandemic, at least not in a way that is economic for our society. I would like to say the following as far as returning to the cobbleds now is concerned. We at Mera25 wanted to, and we want the kids to go to school. We will support their return to the cobbleds. We want children to look into the eyes of each other, with their teachers, with their teachers, and to break this blockade, which you mentioned, Prime Minister. However, in order to do this, we have been calling on you since April to take advantage of the summer months to prepare school buildings. For example, rooms, corridors, common spaces, systematic cleaning and sanitation of school buildings during the summer, early recruitment of permanent teachers and early recruitment of assistants. Again in late August - early September you hired them. You should have hired them, as we told you, since May, in order to prepare good - bad in the summer and a tele-education that is compatible with the right principles of distance learning, not to fly a zoom and what is happening at the last minute. What are you doing with all this? Absolutely nothing. You lied, you did something and other colleagues mentioned it. Mrs. Keramea increased the number in classes to twenty-five and when the general outcry from society came, you came to do what those who try to throw ashes in the eyes of the world play with average conditions. Minister, with an effort to hide the truth by adding the five students to a class on an atrocious island to twenty-five or twenty-six or twenty-seven or thirty-seven students stacked in Athens or Thessaloniki and taking out the average, five and thirty, seventeen and a half, triumphantly triumphing the average, you are being exposed. He's just exposing this to you. You can't make fun of parents that easy. Parents and society know that the five students from Astypalea, where there is no coronary, may throw the average on what is going on in Kalamaria or Kypili, but they do not help to ensure the safety and health of children in these congested classes. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I shall now come to something else which concerns us here as Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we Members must be ashamed in here. If I am not mistaken - the Bureau can correct me - we have decided that for our safety a Member corresponds to 10 square metres. Isn't that right? Even if we accept the irresponsible average of the Ministry of Education, of one to two square meters, it is funny that we give ten square meters to each and every one of us, but for the students to give two to the best of the cases. How do you feel about this, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? I don't feel well. How you feel that during the summer there was nothing about the indoor layout of the halls. They have not been provided with individual enthusiasm. Plexi glass will have put you in the teachers' seats? Some of them, you know very well, like our doctors, our teachers and teachers have an average age of sixty, because there have been no serious assignments due to memorials all these years. These people, the 50 and the 60-year-olds, have such a knit ball in front of the kids? Have you taken care of that? No, of course not. Did you anticipate special faces as additional prophylaxis beyond these masks for teachers and teachers? Mobile workshops for weekly or fortnightly school tests? Oh, no. You know well that there are specialist teachers who need to work to fill the training hours in three and four schools. If one of them finds themselves positive, what are you going to do? Will you close all three or four of these schools? Have you thought about it? With regard to the cleaning up of schools - and other colleagues have mentioned - I would like to ask you to give me figures. How many and how many cleaning employees are we going to have? Specifically how many square meters correspond to each cleaning employee? So how many square meters should every cleaning employee clean up at a school? We need to see these numbers because the numbers count. Will the cleaners and cleaners of school buildings still be prepared? So, you know what it means to be mature? It means if they get sick and get quarantine for fourteen days, twenty days, they lose their livelihood, they lose their wage. Did you think of that? What protective measures have you taken in schools for cleaners, cleaners? Will the cleaning staff work at school's operating time, yes or no? These are basic things that I would expect you to come and tell us in here when you talk to us about the opening up of schools and not just triumphs and admonitions to counterpopulation. We listen to you, even when you advise us and do all we can to help our own people accept the measures. But you? And another thing, Prime Minister, since I talked about cleaning officers. We find that once again you have given land and water to the xenophobic right that you warm on your shell, with this horrible racist provision in this year's notice for fixed-time cleaning officials who exclude foreign and foreign, people who are lawfully in Greece who have work permits, whose children can attend these schools. You throw them out. At least forty-five of what I learned will not be hired again because they do not have Greek citizenship. You are destroying basic values of a liberal party, a liberal state and the common sense, which states that if you have a work permit, such a job is a job you should be able to do. Is this an expression of your liberalism? Don't you understand that these provisions include you in the family of Ms. Lepen, Salvin, Orban and Trump? Of course, you understand that. You just prefer coexistence with your xenophobic right despite compliance with liberalism, which you're supposed to embrace. And since I referred to your extreme right, I cannot help but talk about the months that this far right injected into your own government against youth. When the quarantine ended, we saw the sad sight of men of MATs ruthlessly beat up in the squares of children, young people who had gathered - few of them, few of them - to find them a little. They were the same young children who after a few days the Ministry of Education stacked them in classes to triumph the opening of schools. You do not make it easy for us to support your measures and create a culture of respect for the measures when you behave in this way. Cultivate the generation gap, the rivalry between older and younger, to hide your own failures. Prime Minister, is it the youth that opened the border without a mandatory test? The tests had to be mandatory. Algorithms are good, but when we do not have the possibility once people get in here to do the right tracking, as you call it, we had in particular to have increased viral load tests before they enter. Is it the youth for 100% aircraft completeness? Is it the youth where the bus passengers hang like grape chips from the handcuffs? It is a good thing that individual responsibility - necessary, we agree - is social responsibility better. But our society, Mr. Prime Minister, granted rights individually and socially to protect the weak, so together as a society we managed to zero the coronary's shortest in May. Your sense of political and individual responsibility for the second phase, but where did it go? You had three months to prepare the hospitals. You had three months at your disposal to set up the public network of mass tests. You had six months in front of you to prepare the schools. Prime Minister, when at the beginning of the pandemic together, together, we proposed public health as a major factor, we helped transform people into citizens. But when you proposed that it be opened without preparation for the opening of shops and tourism, you turned the sellers into customers. Speaking of customers and economy, it is time for me to turn to the issue of the economy, the other victim of the pandemic. On 10 March, in this Chamber - you will remember - I warned you about a 10 % recession tsunami if we are lucky. It was March 10th, too early. And I told you that such a tsunami of recession of 10% in an economy that had already lost during the first two, three memoranda of 28% of nominal GDP will lead to a sequence, in a tidal wave of bankruptcies for businesses and households, not just a problem of bankruptcy liquidity. And I told you that when you have bankruptcy, the haircuts are inevitable. We offered you what haircuts to do so as not to do what should not be done. We have proposed to you a tax, insurance and debt cut for small and medium-sized enterprises in the state, the funds and the banks. Who knows why, you rejected these tax, insurance and loan obligations. Who knows why, perhaps because the troika would not accept a haircut for public debts, perhaps because the oligarchy funds that you are inclined with and with which you are in a very good relationship do not want to stop selling red loans against citizens, banks and, of course, the economy of many. And you insisted on unreasonable deferral of taxes with new bankrupt loans to the bankrupt parties, for example "GEYRA" in nowhere, which would supposedly save borrowers by pushing bankruptcy into the future. What the troika did with the bankruptcy of the Greek State in 2010, you are now doing with the private sector. You take their bankruptcy, you lend them, you push them into bankruptcy in the future. As we have warned you, your refusal to haircut the debts and loans of small and medium-sized enterprises has brought in and brought tsunami of padlocks. These padlocks in turn - you know that, Prime Minister - de facto the revenues of the public, the funds and the banks. This will make the deficits of the state and of the funds squeeze further, so the need for further recapitalisation of the banks will soon come, so it will fall when employment is down, so it will feed itself - as has been the case since 2010, but more quickly - the country's fourfold bankruptcy, state, banks, citizens, businesses. And how do you now react for eight months? Recently - let's take an example last Friday night - you brought a bill with unprecedented haircuts of the world of work, of course not of oligarchy. You use the crisis - because you literally follow "never let a crisis go lost" for oligarchy - as a pretext to curb the job. For the first time in labour law, you are establishing free work through hourly unpaid daily overtime. It's never happened before. You are prolonging the abolition of the overtime ceiling. You refuse to prolong - and I cannot understand why you are doing so - by two months the unemployment benefit that ended for people in the quarter of June - July - August. Extend the programme 'COMPANY WORK', which is essentially a reduction in wages. You're reducing the Christmas present. In other words, instead of mocking the taxes and loans from small and medium-sized enterprises to reduce the tsunami of the paddocks, you are mowing the incomes of the workers and speeding up the tsunami of the paddock, because in the end these workers are going to shops for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's how the padlocks grow, so the state deficit grows even more, as public deficits collapse. This is how Greece is already unsustainable public debt. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I was the only one in this Chamber when I spoke with numbers on the recession since March. When Mr Stagiras sat there talking about stable GDP, about 0% recession, I was talking about a recession that would be at least 10%. And I asked you, Prime Minister, in a debate we had here: 'How much will it be for you?' Then you said - now you say it'll be 8% - that no one can know. We, as it turns out, knew. But you know what? I didn't believe you and I didn't believe you knew. I'm not smarter than you. That's for sure. I am sure you, too, know that I was right, that the recession will be at least 10%. I watched in your eyes the dialectics of the deal, the dialectic recognition of the truth I was telling you. It's just, it's obvious - this is my interpretation, I may have been wrong - that you thought that it did not help you at that time to tell the Greek people the truth, because if you said it, you would have to make the haircuts of the obligations - tax, credit, insurance - of the small and medium-sized enterprises, which go against the interests of the troika on the one hand and the oligarchy on the other. The moment that it seemed your problem was neither incompetent nor incontrovertible to me was when I asked you another different question. Here you are, here I am, remember the question. I told you 'good, you say no one can appreciate the recession well'. You do not want to appreciate the recession - good, I accept it - nor the government budget deficit. "Tell me then," I said to you: "How much should the government budget deficit be in 2020-2021 to trigger pension reductions?" Let us start with the subsidiary or the principals. How much does it have to be? Must be 2%, 5%, 15%, 20%? When will you say 'do not do it, do I have to cut pensions?' You did what you didn't hear. It's clear why. You don't suffer from gravitation, you're just committed to pension and wage haircuts. On August 30, Prime Minister, I read in the "Kathemerini" article by Mr Papachela, who writes what I am about to read: "The country urgently needs a program to upgrade its defence capabilities. We are at a point where even the postponement of direct payment of retroactive pensions should be at the table, however heavy the problem of a part of society is." Ask yourself, Prime Minister: Do you share this proposal? Our New Democracy has long been ready not to let the economic pandemic, not only the tensions, the real tensions and the dangerous tensions in the national topics go missing, so that together with the clinical leaders, the funds, the rest of the rodents will go ahead so that the haircuts against the weak can also finance arms dealers, especially those who are in the middle of you. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, this revival of the parasitic oligarchy that you brought on the night of the referendum by making your partners in overthrowing the "no" of the Greek people. You see the results today of that conspiracy with the monumental oligarchy. Now we're going back to you and to the numbers of the recession. Prime Minister, it was not 15% less than GDP in the second quarter, it was 18%, minus 18%. For the first trimester, it was not 0.5%, according to ELSTAT numbers. Do you want me to read it to you? The first quarter of 2020 compared to the first quarter of 2019 our GDP decreased by 1,168 billion, i.e. 1,188 million, i.e. 2,7% of GDP. That was the first quarter. That has been revised now. I do not know if you have noticed, ladies and gentlemen of the Coupling and Reconciliation, they have not only made the elements of the second quarter too late, revised downwards and the first quarter. This has not been discussed anywhere. So we had a recession anyway since the third quarter of 2019, as only Mera25 had predicted. We had a recession and it was 0.6%, the last quarter of 2019. In the first quarter of 2020, we had 2.7% recession. For the second quarter to tell you the figures: GDP reduction, compared to the second quarter of 2019, was 8.827 million, 8.8 billion and this is 18.05% and not 15%. As regards the total first semester, in which you said that we are a little better than the Eurozone average, it is not true. We lost in the first half of 2020 compared to the first half of 2019 9,786 billion, i.e. 10,83%. We are above the average of the euro area's loss of income. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you want to know how they cooked -18% to -15%? They won't tell you themselves, I'll tell you. They dropped the recession, adding to the negative rate of recession inflation. Removing inflation, adding deflation that is about 2%. This is a constant crime against economic statistics. Look, when we have positive inflation, it's right to remove inflation from the size growth rate. I mean, imagine that we are now in other previous times of the 2000s that we had a inflation of 3% and even that it was a PASOK government then, so to get rid of you - you are still in opposition, it is PASOK here, it is Mr Simitis - and he tells you that it has a growth of 5%. In other words, in euros GDP is rising to 5%, when deflation is 3%. You would say to him - and rightly so - 'Hold on, 5% increased income in euro, but 3% went up as well'. Five percent minus 3%, real growth was 2%. That's right. When we have positive inflation, we must remove it from the rate of GDP change. But when he is negative, we are in no way entitled to do that. Why think about that. We had -18% in the second quarter and what did they do to do -15%? They removed inflation. Inflation, however, was about -2. Minus what is it? Prot. Stat. In other words, they took -18% and dwindled it, saying 'yes, but prices fell'. But, ladies and gentlemen, when you ask us to rejoice with you that the remission of the first half of the year was what the Prime Minister said, you are actually asking us to be pleased that not only because it has reduced GDP above the average of the euro area, but also because the prices charged by the shopkeepers have fallen faster than those charged by shopkeepers in Germany, France or elsewhere. Imagine someone coming in and telling you - Prime Minister, you have studied in the United States - that the recession - in the great recession in America - since 1929 in 1933 has been only 26%. That's the number you're going to make, if you calculate the recession in America, between 1929 and 1933, as you estimate. Because the GDP of the United States, between 1929 and 1933, fell to 45.3%, but prices fell to 19%. So if they did what you do in America, it will only be the recession of about 20%, which has nothing to do with the United States 'Organization Strips' in the 1930s, as it has nothing to do with what you tell us today in reality, -18% was the recession in the second quarter, -10.83% was the recession in the first half. So hand over these firearms. The forecasts of THE MARA25 have already been confirmed. In the first half of the year GDP fell from 90.4 billion to 80.6 billion, i.e. 10.83%. How much does it have to be reduced in the second half, so that we can have the recession I predicted, at least 10%? We must lose the period of July - August - September - November and December and reduce GDP over last year's period of 9.5 billion. I'm sure we're gonna lose them. The overall recession of at least 10%, as we anticipated, is a given one. In order to stay in the Minutes of this meeting, as was left in March, my forecast for at least 10% recession, I will say it clearly to be registered and be able to look at it, prove that I am wrong or I will prove that I was right, the recession will be at least 10%, but it will not stop there the evil. Prime Minister, in mid-2021, EUROSTAT and ELSTAT will review the data and -10% or -11% will go closer to -15%. The same will happen with the government budget deficit, which in 2020 will exceed 12% and will begin to touch -15% of the revised GDP of the year, April - May. Does that remind you of a nightmare? In particular, Mr. Loverdos, where were you in the government at the time, the upward revision of six months after the state reaches -15%? It reminds of what it was that led to the first Memorandum. That's why we warn about the fifth. As Mr Tsipras named the fourth memorandum or exceeds the memorials, you will certainly find something else to name. You will call it "developing plan for Greece", but a memorandum will be essentially, with a pension cut, public investment, wages, especially in the private sector, with new measures in favour of oligarchy, with a new contraction of popular incomes, with all the good things the Pissaridis report prepares the world to accept as the cost of "new Jerusalem", PPPs, privatization and the retreat of the values guaranteed by this recession, this deepening of debt-government. But we'll see you in Thessaloniki in a few days where you will present your program and we'll see our vision of Greece of 2025. Tonight, I would like to close as I started by saying that I do not believe it to be a matter of incompetence, that as you refused to hire permanent staff for the ERAS because this would conflict with the interests of the clinics, as we refused to prepare a public effective mechanism for mass tests because this would conflict with the interests of private diagnostic centres, so you also pretended with the economic pandemic that you would be unable to monitor the correct forecasts of the ERAS25 because if you were admitting that they were correct, you would have to make the haircuts of the small-media debts, which yes, would reduce the bunks and limit the recession and would protect society from the maximum economic sanitation, but off, would jeopardise the troika, would be inflamed by the budgets, which would reduce the financial interests of those who have lost their lives, which would not at long lasting the loss of economic interests, which would not at last. Prime Minister, as Mr. Tsipras in 2015 tried to justify his conscience by pretending that he had previously been delusional, so you, today, prefer the public to give you oligopolis responsibilities, rather than revealing that you preferred the interests of oligarchy from the protection of the majority from the health and economic pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u49	With Mr Varoufakis' speech, the first cycle is completed. We are starting the cycle of seconds with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has the floor for fifteen minutes. Mr President, if I may, I can inform you that you have a very serious communication to do later. Do you just want to talk about your dentext now or do you want to incorporate your tritology to compress time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u50	I will try to sit as much as time allows me, Mr President. I'll see according to the course of the debate if I need to quantify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u52	Let me start with what I have heard from the last speaker. I consider it extremely problematic for the Greek Parliament to have a Member, how much more of the leader of a political party, which will refer to Greece as a debt colony. It is unacceptable that these things should be said in this Chamber by the man who has enormous responsibilities for the fact that in 2015, if his plan had been heard, then Greece would have left the euro and then we would have been a real slavery. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Only because you did not find them with your political leader at the time, and with the support of this party, we were at least able to save the worst! And I also do not allow you in this Chamber to accuse this government of making political choices with the interests rather than the health of the Greek people. These charges are incomprehensible. They go against how society perceives all this effort that has been done. They go against all the real facts that testify that our country and the first, but also in the second cycle of the pandemic, has done much better than many other countries. And, in any case, when we talk about the lives of our fellow people, when we talk about public health, be more careful than here and from now on when you say such unscrupulous things. I now come to my response to the other political leaders, starting with what I have heard from Mrs Gennamas, which has also given rise to today's debate. To say that by comparing the speeches made by Mrs Gennimata and Mr Tsipras, I have distinguished several similarities as regards the criticism they have given to the government. I will try to answer arguments and evidence. However, at least by Mrs Gennimatas, I saw a tendency, in my view, to present a framework of silkmakers with proposals on how, in her view, the health crisis and the economic consequences can be addressed. It seems to me that the Chief of Staff Response has heard almost no proposal, except the easy urge to double the number of seats or to share children in the middle in some magical way, so that we can deal with the problem that may arise in schools. I must tell you that this was not the expert proposal. The experts were also recommended. The experts have recommended exactly what we are doing and we will insist on that. But now I come to the inaccuracies which Mrs Gennamata has heard, many inaccurate inaccurate when they are heard in this Chamber with such ease, let alone when we have submitted on several occasions and have put the evidence to the suffering of public dialogue to the test. We can have different opinions. I've told you many times here. However, we cannot question the official figures. You said the tests were reduced. The tests aren't reduced, Mrs. Gennamas. The tests aren't reduced. The tests have increased sharply over the past few months. We've reached the point where we've done up to seventeen thousand tests a day. On average, as a number of tests, as a percentage of the thousands of people in the country, we are around the same level as the Netherlands. And, indeed, tests are carried out by public bodies, they are made by private bodies, as is the case in all the countries of the world. In fact, the tests have not only been reduced, but have increased considerably, and that is why we are also finding more cases today. Comparing the figures of April and March and May, when we did much less of a test, with the data of September, is not mathematically correct for the simple reason that when you do many more tests, you will identify a lot more cases. Watch out. We and in March and April and May never said that the real cases were what we had identified. We never said it because we obviously knew that the real cases were multiple. And what was the proof of this? Unfortunately, the number of people who lost their lives and the pressure, whatever pressure, because it was not so much the pressure that intensive care units have suffered. So today we have no corresponding pressure on intensive care units, although our hospitals, as you know, are working properly. We have not suspended surgery and we have not been in - and I am sure that we will not have to go into - the extraordinary regime of intensified beds, free them from other uses of the National Health System. So the tests have increased considerably. There was a great debate on the issue of the CSR. But the CSR has a thousand-year-old test capacity per day. That's his ability. And, for some reasons, some tests were carried out earlier and for one week the CSR was unable to carry out a test. But the CSR is a thousand tests at seventeen thousand. And with regard to the rest of the government's initiatives, since we are talking about public policies, I would like to remind you that the research initiative financed by the Government - I told you, but it seems that you do not want to hear the real facts - which can add up to five thousand tests every day, is the result of financing Greek research, domestic research from Greek research resources. I now come to an issue which I have heard from both you and Mr Tsipras: Airplane. Really? What did you suggest? Did you suggest or suggest, and now that airplane capacity needs to be reduced? And how's that gonna happen? We're gonna cut off the middle position? Are we supposed to say the planes are gonna fly half an empty? And tell me an airline, a country in the world that has implemented such a measure. And tell me what would happen to our tourism if we had. Quite simply, Greece would only come out of the tourist market. We wouldn't have to run any tests and use any algorithms. No one would fly to Greece! Do you not know that and you and Mr. Tsipras, when you say so easily 'but you did nothing for the planes'? And after all, if there was a problem with airplanes, I imagine we would find it first of all in the personnel serving the airplanes, on the planes, on the pilots. Do you know whether there has been even a positive case in the planes that flew to Greece at least from the Greek companies? Let me tell you: None! Zero! You have spoken about the ships and the decision that we have actually made to increase tonnage on ships, to go to 85% forever! - by following the experts' advice and checks. We didn't do our heads. We said, however, that ships should be forced to use a mask and that in any case, ships in Greece have the possibility of serving a large part of the passengers by being outside. Do you know, Mrs. Genuines and Mr. Tsipras, if we had any positive incidents to workers on board the ferry? As far as I know, no-one, no-one, the State Secretary, informs me. I imagine that if there was a problem on ships, the first to suffer the consequences would be the workers themselves. It sounds good to say such words with great ease, but we should be careful and see whether they are ultimately confirmed by the facts. And the data are what I say to you, they are what we have put into public consultation. If you want to question them, that's your right. I have heard Mr Varoufakis say 'the recession is not 15%, it is 18%' and you may say tomorrow that it is 25% and 30%. But either we believe ELSTAT, which uses exactly the same methodology as all the statistical services in Europe, or we do not believe it. Now, if we want to have a debate where everyone comes here with their own data, I fear that we will have parallel monologues. The only thing we are going to come up with is to involve society and not reach any real conclusions. A basic admission, therefore, which should first of all be embraced, is that we accept, accept official data, as they at least appear from the Government through the COVID -19 observatory, which we have created, and to which we have never thought that we could alter, falsify, hide information, because that would be something that we would certainly find in front of us. It would be a huge mistake. Whoever tried this epidemic to make things look good found it in front of him. You spoke of an information campaign. I'm glad you recognize the need for information. And because we heard too much about the information campaign that the government did, I wish we could agree. It is something that we will put to the House as well, since we believe that a second information campaign is needed. Especially for school issues, and especially for the issue of the use of the mask, we are here to bring it to Parliament and discuss it. And right now, the campaign will be a purely television campaign, as long as we decide to do that. If you don't want it, testify to your objections, state clearly that such a campaign must not be carried out. At least, Mrs Gennamata acknowledges that there is today an additional need for information, how much more so when they have been heard - unfortunately - and in this Chamber opinions and theories which - let me not be far from the point of view, regardless of whether, Mr Velopoulou, you have said them slightly well-prepared and tried to round them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u53	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u54	Of course! Your word was a direct question of scientific data, as at least as they are formed by the health committee, the scientific committee which advises the government and whose advice we hear and harmonise with them. I realized that there is a question - you said it directly - about the use of the mask in young ages. At least I understood what you said. I'll say again that was the expert suggestion. And I say it again to reassure parents and teachers. I understand you can't oblige a child six, seven, eight years old to wear the mask all the time. We have said from the beginning - and the Minister for Education has explained it quite clearly - that in these ages the mask is more pedagogical and that we will not punish a child if he does not wear his mask. But can I tell you something? I have seen very touching stories - there are several on the Internet - with three, four and five years old children suffering from severe illnesses and who have to wear a mask for two and three years many times, because that is exactly what experts are telling them. The mask is a small concession which we all have to make in order to limit the spread of the virus. And according to the experts, if we do not want - I will say again - to go to more intense measures relating to something that would be similar to a second lockdown, it is the only measure that we currently have at our disposal, at least according to the World Health Organisation, which indeed - and yes, you are right - revised its views. However, it is the opinion that prevails at the moment. And in any case, one thing is certain now and we know it, that the mask does not damage and that only benefit can be gained. And it's common sense because the mask can benefit when we know the transmission mechanism of the virus. People who speak loudly emit droplets and the mask protects against it so much that you may be a potential vector, but also the one who can stick the virus. You mentioned - and I shall at least acknowledge that, because the rest of the speakers did not find a good thing about everything the government has done - that the advance was a positive measure. Indeed, the repayable advance was a positive measure and it was able to provide more than 100 000 firms with rapid and immediate liquidity, in companies which have an objective difficulty in having access to the banking system. That is why we have made it, and that is why we will continue with it, and that is why we will strengthen it. But, from there on, let me, but that's not the only measure taken by the government. I would point out that only eight hundred and thirty-six thousand six hundred eighty-two employees benefited from the suspension regime. This measure cost almost 1 billion when the State actually came and took over the payroll of a large part of the private sector. And only one hundred and eighty thousand seven hundred sixty - six scientists benefited from 600 euros when they were given in May and July. I only mention two examples, because it is not the time to list all the measures taken by the government in the economic sector. Of course, since we are talking about businesses, we must not forget - and I will recognise that this was a proposal that you had tabled in the public debate - the fact that we made considerable contributions to the advance payment of a tax, which resulted in the clearance of a tax a few days ago, the legal persons paying 1.5 billion, while last year they paid 3.5 billion. It is a 2 billion-dollar benefit to legal persons from limiting or zeroing the advance payment of tax, but also from the fact that economic activity is much less pronounced this year. It is a further 2 billion gain for businesses and 2 billion less for the state at an extremely difficult time. I now come to Mr Tsipras' remarks. After 24:00, the virus doesn't get stuck. Look at this: those are the theories which, when they are specifically expressed in the House in this little ironic way, give too many to question the correctness of our policies. The reason why not only we, but too many countries, impose hours at which the fun stops at some point is that you know very well that the more fun enters deeper into the night, the more alcohol is consumed and the more favourable the conditions for the transmission of the virus are. That's why we stopped standing in the bars so they don't come too close. And we accepted that fun can work, but it can work when people who have fun are just sitting around. So why this irony? I don't understand it. So, who do you close your eyes to when you say such clever ones? Otherwise, there would be no more too many countries to impose such amusement measures. So we're the only ones who discovered this measure? All the other European countries, which at times imposed time restrictions on fun, did not know what they were doing and we suddenly discovered powder? Oh, no! Close the eye on some, when you say this, as much as on the youth that we oppress and do not let her have fun, but on the other hand we have not done well in dealing with the coronary. And yes, but in the second wave that we did not do well at all, the government is indebted to it. It is not very coherent and very reasonable what you say. Of course, I must tell you that it is not coherent and it is not reasonable for the simple reason that we have not done so badly in the second wave. I would say to you, on the contrary, that the evidence confirms that in the second wave we have gone better than many other countries because we were in the sixty-third place - elements of the World Health Organization and the Johns Hopkins University - in deaths per 100 000 and now we are in the thirteenth place. That's what the evidence says. Now, if you want to question them and say how bad we're doing, that's your right. It simply conflicts with the scientific reality and with the data we have at our disposal. I must tell you, however, that it conflicts with the general impression and the image that the citizens have of how the country has achieved it as a whole. I will give you a re-examination of this chart, which is a comparison between Greece and our main tourist competitors: Croatia, France, Malta, Portugal, Spain. We have the best performance. Do you understand that, or do you always want to shoot the country because it suits you internally? That's official evidence. They're not in dispute! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So what else do we have to tell you to stop describing a picture that is a complete catastrophe image, which is not confirmed by the evidence? I understand the need sometimes to distribute your word with elements that may make a impression. A hundred times - you have said this third time - more cases than the time we stopped the lockdown. I have announced that we are going to lift Lockdown on 28 April. Then we had thirty two cases. Today we have a hundred and fifty-six, tomorrow we may have more or less. According to your mathematics thirty-two per cent do a hundred fifty-six. What math are these? How do you say it's a hundred times more cases? How do you create such impressions, when the evidence is in the completely opposite direction, and when I told you that at the moment the main issue is not so much the absolute number of cases, as the positiveity and proportion of positive cases in the number of cases? So don't try to create impressions just to describe a picture that can suit you politically and partyly. You spoke about tourism. Yes, sir. I understand from your charge that we rushed to open tourism, that we didn't do it well, that we had to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u55	I didn't say you were raped. I said you don't have a plan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u56	Well, Tsipras for tourism: "We are in mid-May and yet not only have the hotel units been opened, but unfortunately we do not have a picture of when and how the operation of the heavy industry that is tourism for the Greek economy will be relaunched." And then you call me a political con! Mr. Tsipras, take a look at them, remember what you were saying. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You yourself said to us: "Open tourism, open it up." You were pushing us. "People are destroyed. What's gonna happen? They will come to unemployment." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now that we have opened tourism, we have opened it, as I told you, organised, we have opened it with the same protocols that all countries have opened it. You know, a tourist-competitive country, Mr. Tsipras, which required a PCR test from all visitors? One. Will you tell me one? If you want to say it now. One. Nobody did it. And yet compared to all our competitors... I'll give it to you again, Mr. Tsipras. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the reality. We opened up tourism organized, taking a reasoned risk that we would have a small increase in cases. Mr. Varoufakis told us: Was it worth it? That's four billion. All right, obviously billions for you are pasatebo and you have no interest in this money which in any case went into the pockets of some people who worked. As far as you are concerned, it was not worth it. As far as we are concerned, it was worth it. Can I tell you something, Mr. Tsipras? We had a very specific plan. Too many people worked so that we could act on this opening to tourism as we did. You can, as I told you, criticise. Mr Varoufakis referred to Mr Drakopoulos and I would like to honour this man, because he is a scientist I personally did not know him. We met at random, because he expressed his interest in helping the country, coming and providing us with its services, without being paid. It did not belong to the few-government, all those whom we want to abide by our policy. He wrote a text by Mr. Drakopoulos, presenting his own personal experience and speaking in a very nice and flattering way not for the government, but for Greece, about how he met many people who exaggerated himself to enable this extremely complex plan to be carried out. I'll read a quote from what he said. "When I asked," says Mr. Drakopoulos, "one of the firefighters" - I mention his name, because he writes it - "Kissilis Katsiada, who found all this energy, is fourteen hours standing at the airport and to implement the policy that we had drawn up, his answer surprised me: "Our success with regard to COVID -19 is the only great victory of my generation and I will do everything I can to keep it." Like him there are too many, hundreds of thousands of people who put their backs on. You insult them when you have such great comfort with this effort. Is everything perfect? Oh, no. Not that it all went to watch. Mr. Drakopoulos says so himself. Obviously, mistakes have also been made. He says something else, though. He speaks of those who decide to remain silent when those who have nothing to say speak. There are many who remain silent when those who have nothing to say speak. One of them is the professor, Mr. Drakopoulos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to a number of other issues that you have raised. Cleaners: The issue has also been raised by Mr. Varoufakis. Five thousand fixed-term contracts, full-time for ten months and even four thousand four hundred seventy-four part-times. Mr Varoufakis said something right: 'What happened to the former regime, if any of these cleaners were sick?' Now at least they are fully covered in terms of their health coverage. How many did you have? Three thousand seven hundred. It is 28 million more than the Ministry of Interior to support cleaning services in schools. You talked about recruitment in education. Your partners haven't informed you well again. I have here the edition of the revised final lists for the four and a half thousand permanently appointed in special treatment. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I will acknowledge - do not rush - that this is a process that has been initiated by you. You haven't been able to finish it again. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It belongs to all that you have not made! Well, it's done, like, four and a half thousand. I have here and the provisional ranking tables, the IGI/2019, which relates to ten thousand five hundred general education posts. When you say that there is no recruitment of regular staff, do you not know that the procedure has begun? I really hope you don't know that. But they had to know about it by your colleagues and writers. So take both notices to see them so that the facts are not disputed, about the intentions of the Ministry of Education, as we have said many times, to proceed with recruitment of permanent staff, which are so necessary today in education. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned notices, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm closing up with a report you've done today. ‘All bulk’. It is not far from what you described. You're talking one more time about government propaganda. Thank you for acknowledging the government's ability to influence a series of foreign media which wrote so flattering publications about Greece. It gives us great strength to believe that we can influence the foreign press in this way. But from there on, can I tell you something? When you are always talking about propaganda, when you say that what Greek society experiences is a magical picture, you do not insult the government. And can I tell you something? Each government has an obligation to show things and to show its positive work. It's her job, it's your job, it's our job. The question is, ultimately, what the citizens think about what has happened in the country. So, I can tell you that despite the uncertainty, despite the anxiety, despite the adverse effects of an unprecedented economic crisis - for which, however, it is not our country's fault, as opposed to a previous crisis, which you and Mr Varoufakis have caused with your own handling in 2015, this has been caused by you, on your own, by the coronary found us - thankfully but also by the moderate optimism. And yes, they believe in the government as a whole to manage the adventure of the coronary, but at the same time it is also a vote of confidence in their own powers, in their own confidence, to be able to form a situation which will ultimately be for the benefit of their own families and their own. To present an image which is purely black is unfair to the country. It may be convenient for you to collect some applause at your inner party audience. It's your problem of how you handle the insides of your party. But at the moment - I will tell you again - you are wrongly making a great effort, not so much by the government, but by the country as a whole. The government will do what it has to do. He will courageously recognise any mistakes and any omissions. I did not find it difficult to say in my protology that we did indeed all show a tendency to reassurance when we did so well in dealing with the first wave of the coronary. That's true. First of all, I would like to acknowledge it and first of all I would say that we are not allowed to make the same mistake again. But not cancel an overall effort of a society that still complies with the suggestions of experts, a society that understands that whatever the government finally says depends on each Greek citizen primarily and individually. Yes, that is the concept of individual responsibility, which I personally support and support. Because, Mrs. Gennamas, I'm not a social democrat. I am a liberal politician and liberal politicians believe that citizens have rights and obligations. Don't worry, I don't look at your political space. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But at the same time, I recognise that a liberal politician can recognise the need for a very dynamic state intervention when circumstances require it. That's what we did, that's what we do, and that's what we're going to do, always for the benefit of Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u57	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mrs Fofi Gennamas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Greek society, Prime Minister, in order to continue to obey, perform and cooperate in all directions given by experts and by the government, should be able to feel trusted before all in the political system. And this debate, which was provoked by us, basically had this objective. Unfortunately, however, the debate has already highlighted the great political problem of this country, namely that you are choosing the korunks instead of the real dialogue and arguments. But the dialogue here today has also raised problems, and that is why it has justified us and confirmed our request and the need at last to discuss it. Because not everything is well burned in this place. That is why we will continue to take initiatives and pressure you, Prime Minister, until we get answers and, above all, until we see effective solutions for the interests of the Greek people and, above all, for the protection of public health and human life. You are unfortunately continuing, Mr Mitsotakis, to proceed by seeing and doing. This is precisely in the second phase of the pandemic that is extremely dangerous. Unfavourable developments in virus dispersion combined with seasonal flu, with the opening up of schools and, of course, the state of the business economy, workers demand vigilance, design and efficiency. You're a government and you're responsible. So don't constantly look at things in terms of communication. Finally, touch the real problems because only so will you be able to deal with them and solve them. So I am thinking, and I would like to focus on the ten main points to which we have to bear weight over the next few years. Let me reply to you about what you said about planes and ships. You, Prime Minister, have been caught undetected, because I must tell you that on planes by 15 July there were twelve empty seats in the back to travel people with symptoms and suspicion that they were positive to the coronary, covered with special curtains. On 15 July the Commission terminated this measure. As far as the issue of ships is concerned, no one expects the captain to stick to the bridge or the engineer who is down on the engines. The problem concerns passengers who were joining each other first on the islands, then on the ships, and then moved by public transport, visiting relatives, friends and going to work. That's how it was dispersed and we came to have all these cases in the large urban centres and especially in Attica. How else did it happen, Mr. Mitsotakis? Do you have any answers? As magically arrived in Attica? How did he get transferred? How did he move? So I come before everything on the subject of tests. Looks like we all agree we need more tests. It's just a question of achieving it. And you probably don't listen well or you haven't learned to hear. I didn't tell you you lowered the tests. I told you you stopped the tests when you opened the country. Mostly on land borders you did no control at first. When the virus was dispersed, Mr. Mitsotakis, then you started taking action. And despite the efforts that have been made and the major problems that are currently facing the tests and the subject of reagents, I have to tell you that according to today's test data per million people, we are the thirty-second in the forty-seven countries of Europe and the 20th in the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. I present the relevant table for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Movement of Change, Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I ask you, Prime Minister, are you satisfied with this? Shouldn't we improve it? We mustn't find solutions. That's why we're here. That is why we are asking for this debate. Secondly, I mentioned your own words in my narratives: 'The country can take no more general lockdown or local'. That's what you said in one of the lectures you had at the end of the quarantine. Today where are we, Prime Minister? We've got over ten local lockdowns. And I ask you: are you happy with this development? How are we going to move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u59	We don't have any lockdown.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u60	Thirdly, you said, Mr Mitsotakis, that on 26 February we had the first case in the country and at the beginning of March the first measures were taken. I would remind you that from 22 January, when the pandemic had not yet appeared in our country, but not even in Europe, on our parliamentary initiative, we also hit the risk bell, and then we asked you what measures you intend to take to support the ESS, how you intend to inform the citizens, what you will do to prevent what is coming, particularly with controls on the gates of the country. I'm answering the question. It is very important that it was made in January 2020 and, of course, we did not receive any response at all, Prime Minister. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourth point: You are still not responding with regard to the temporary recruitment you have made in the National Health System. How many people have been placed and working, doctors and nurses, public hospitals and health centers in the country? Shouldn't we know? On the other hand, we all agree that we need permanent recruitment in the system, directly. But let's make something clear so we know what we're talking about. The hospitals' organograms are outdated. So let us start, immediately, a large part with these organograms, so that there is no delay and that we can change the organograms of hospitals as soon as possible so that the other recruitments can be automatically announced on the basis of actual gaps and the needs of resignation and retire ments. So that we don't throw fireworks here, in general, for the organograms. I come to the question of education. We're talking about fewer kids in classrooms and more teachers. Prime Minister, 80% of high school and high school in Athens has several over twenty students per department and in primary schools the situation is even worse, reaching twenty-five children per department. Are you really happy with this information and are you quiet that you have taken all the steps to protect the health of children, teachers, workers and their families? And I never told you that I was against using a mask from the new children, but I told you that I was against authoritarianism and tsubukas to the new children, because what it takes, Prime Minister, is convinced. So what the state had to do and what the respective, the Ministry responsible, was to be able to convince children and families and teachers, with the solutions it could propose, but it did not propose. That's the problem. Not only am I against the mask, but I told you to campaign not only for the vaccine you mentioned, but also for the mask, and I told you that these images of conspiracy theories and all that we have lived in the last few days must be stopped. I repeat, however, your accusation to me and return it to you, that you seem to be the one who does not listen, who does not know how to hear or who does not want to hear truths. So, do you consider what the downturn of sixty-five thousand children can be hosted in creative centres at the same time? Another problem for the Greek family, for the middle Greek family, which needs the support and care of the state. Seventh point, you talked to us about children's mental health and how she's linked to going to school. Yes, sir. But if you care so much about the mental health of children, why so far have you not presented a national plan for mental health and dependencies, in fact, a plan not only for addictions to illegal or legal substances, but also for gambling and the Internet, which has aggravated the problem throughout the quarantine period? There's nothing you can tell us about that. Eighth point, the economy. You predicted a recession below 4%, then uploaded the forecast for 8% and now resort to various funny tricks to cover the reality. I have to ask you, Prime Minister: Where do you finally put the cue and, above all, how do you intend to deal with this state of economy, which is real and is not aake news? Let go of the bad comparisons with other countries, which did not even face the previous ten years of economic crisis like Greece. There's a peculiarity here. You are a Prime Minister, you are not in charge of ELSTAT. Ninth point, small and mediumsized workers. You told us with great pride how many workers benefited from your regulation of suspensions. From the tone of your voice and the way you presented it, I already have the answer for what I wanted to ask you. Can you come in, Mr. Mitsotakis, in place of one of the hundreds of thousands of hotel staff who took and saw their last salary at home in October 2019? Obviously you can't do the way you answered me. These couples and their families since then live with the unemployment benefit and the poverty benefits of EUR 534 and now you tell them that you will cut their Christmas present, while if some of them are lucky and find jobs in the meantime, but they are unhappy to get sick, you will make them work overtime without being paid. Get in for a moment at least. And, of course, join the position of professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises who are drowning in the crisis, struggling at night - day to keep their businesses open, after ten years of fighting and resisting and standing and open, and arrive at the bank, because they have heard about public guarantees, 'TEPT I' and I don't know how many other, big words, and they get to the bank's guise and the employee says to them, who does not have the responsibility, the policies of the banks implement and obviously the government, and he answers: 'We have no money for you, they have finished, this program, this was for a few others, for friends, for acquaintances.' Get in for a moment with these people. Of course, you didn't tell us anything about your intention to increase the repayable advance. You liked me to say that it was something positive at last, but you do not commit that this thing will continue, so that there will be a substance and a result for small and medium-sized professionals. Finally, I ask, Mr Mitsotakis: can you go in for a moment with the pensioners? The remaining pensions have been increased from thirty thousand to seventy thousand in a year over your days and from these alone thirty-five thousand are receiving temporary pensions and can somehow be substantiated to live. How will the rest live, Mr. Mitsotakis? And all I'm describing is those who work or work until a while ago. Can you, Mr Mitsotakis, get into the position of young people and the unemployed who can no longer see prospects and their dreams are evaporating? And in the conclusion of the Pissaridis Commission, the only mention of poverty and social inequalities is that one - it says - needs a minimum income, but one that must be taxed. This is the first time that this has been heard in Greece. Listen, Mr. Mitsotakis. Today the problem is not the deficit of resources. I developed this in my prototype. The problem is the policy deficit. For us, growth cannot be sustainable without social cohesion and an effective social protection system. At least we in the Change Movement on this line give the battle. We are defending the rights of the world of work, of small and medium-sized enterprises, of farmers, of pensioners and of young people. That is what we have always done and that is what we will continue to do as the democratic, progressive side of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u61	The Chief of Staff and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Radical Left coalition, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, is called in Stepma for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I asked in my first speech, Mr Mitsotakis, to take the opportunity to make self-criticism, to say 'all right, we also made mistakes'. On the contrary, I found - although you were more crowded than others it is the truth - that the main aim of your intervention was to move the finger again and to blame all of you who are criticizing us, around, with those who are impeccable, have nothing to say and speak, they say much, even with those who have expressed opinions and theories of conspiracy and questioning even the existence of the virus, that is, the mask negligents, the viral negligents, etc. Look. The mask's negatives - I see one in front of me -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u63	Don't twist!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u64	You're not? You have a political position that goes close. In any case, our mask negligents have never met them. You've met them from close to the prespecies rally two years ago. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We and our party have a lasting front against darkness and we are always on the side of science. But we are critical. And the main criticism we have given you today, among other things, was the opening of tourism, the opening of tourism with many and different health protocols from a gateway to an entry gate. You read my position in May when I said that it 'opens without a plan', 'we are in May and we do not have the plan'. We criticised you for not doing what you did to Promahona - you finally did - at all the gates of the country. You told us "but what other country competing in tourism did it? " Who do you want to compare? What competitive with us in the region has had this high competitive advantage for this year alone, the image of the healthly safe country? Who? Turkey? Spain? Italy? Egypt? Who? We had to do that. We criticised you because you increased to 85% the completeness of the ships at the time the pandemic had begun to exist. The course of pandemic was quite obvious. We criticised you for not taking care to dismantle citizens into public transport by putting extra metro routes to urban buses. We criticised the opening-up of schools. We are not of the opinion that schools should not open up. Don't twist. We criticised the municipality last year in May because they opened for twenty days in June and said it was unnecessary. But we don't think this year's schools won't open. However, we criticised you because in other countries they take care of and reduce half the students or reduce the students by class, while in this case you increase them. In fact, we think - and I want here, Mr Mitsotakis, to say something - that, because it cannot have anything to do with common sense, it cannot have anything to do with the committee's scientific position, the view that has been made publicly, that it does the same to us in the dispersal of the virus, whether it is fifteen or thirty-five in one class! Wait a minute, how's it going to be here? What about science in the service of political feasibility? It's too much! I would therefore ask you officially, because we are making an account here, and we need this account to be done with all the information in our knowledge, in the knowledge of the Greek Parliament, to give us the minutes of the meetings of the Scientific Committee to see them. Because for all the criticisms we have made, you say that experts, scientists, have said so. Our experts told us to go to 85% of ships, our experts told us not to increase subway and urban bus services, our experts told us to open schools with thirty students per class! Get us the minutes. I confuse it, Mr. Mitsotakis, that your experts and scientists have made such proposals. In any case, do not tell us that we do not have proposals and we do not put forward proposals. And since the first moment in a positive spirit - like all the parties - on 23 July we have tabled ten specific proposals for the opening-up of schools. Today we tell you: What is your design? We are also concerned about Greek society! You hired a special lawsuit we'd ordered them a year and a half ago. That's what you did. But do you realize that pandemic is a treaty that changes everything and we cannot even do anything that the previous government has planned? I told you something very important today. You didn't deny me. I gave you the evidence. Today, despite the pandemic, there are fewer workers in public health units, temporary and permanent than they were when you received. And you weren't right. How can you disprove? That's your evidence. And of course, once again you went out and said that in a few months' time, what was not done in decades. Immediate attitude once again and insultingly about the intelligence of society. However, the truth is that 15 months after the elections and seven months after the beginning of the pandemic, only contractors have been recruited and there has been no single notice of permanent medical and nursing staff planning and approving your own government. On the contrary, we in a period of memoranda of fiscal adjustment, austerity and without being faced with an unprecedented health crisis such as the current one, have actually invested in the public health system. We hired more than seven thousand permanent workers in the ESS. We launched over three thousand five hundred standing invitations that have not yet been completed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are talking about permanent support, beyond the thousands of contractors who were hired at the same time to fill the gaps in hospitals and health centres. At the same time, we moved forward with an important reform in primary health care, adding a hundred and twenty-seven new public structures and a thousand additional health workers in the ESS. We increased by a hundred and twenty the available beds. You're saying you've raised them more in the pandemic, yes, but how will these be served? With what personal? We increased public health expenditure by 0.5% in a period of budgetary suffocation. We have ensured, because we have had honest management, the survival of public care that has been going on and have covered healthly all uninsured citizens, truly shielding public health. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is unthinkable today that we have 5% of fewer workers in the health system - which we have a pandemic - than when you received it. It's incomprehensible! Of course, the same applies to education. On the tests: you did not claim a common European protocol on mandatory tests to be applied by the European Union. About what is being done: The tests carried out in private hospitals are paid by people from their pockets twice and three times. The CSR had a capacity of three and a half to four thousand tests per day, which was not exploited and stayed in the thousand tests, but for them you did not make sure that you could obtain reagents in time. So, rather, the aim was to push people into the private sector, to private centres, to specific private centres. Allow me to make two, three comments on economic issues - I will close in five minutes, Mr President - because I have promised that I will speak about the economy in my second speech and not speak for a long time. But I will say two thoughts that I think are crucial. I told you it's not about celebrating with these ELSTAT elements. You made another poaching here today. You told us that we were better than the European average. You calculated in semester 'cause that's how it suited you. The second quarter of 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u65	Six months...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u66	But the third quarter also comes, Mr. Mitsotakis. And in the third quarter, those who can know the course of the economy year after year are the quarter the strongest picture of growth in our country due to tourism. So if tourism did not go well, it will be the quarter, which will be the long delay from time to time. I don't want to be a veteran of bad guys, but we'll tell things by their name. Not celebrating because we're in a free fall. The second quarter of 2020 with 15.2%, which you celebrate, was the fifth worst performance in the European Union. It's not the first, indeed, but you brought the recession before the coronary. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In the last quarter of 2019, our country had a recession and it was in the only three countries of the European Union that had a recession. So we're in a free fall. I would remind you of a saying from an interesting French film that said 'the impact is important and not the fall'. The issue is what will happen with the impact, with the social consequences that will come next. I'll tell you two more clues. Private consumption drop 11.6%. Expected. The public why 3.2%? Why should public consumption, which records, among other things, public expenditure in kind, for example, on health material, for the needs of schools, be reduced in relation to the corresponding quarter of last year, in the second quarter? One would expect it to be increased because of the measures to tackle the pandemic and we have a 3.2% reduction. So it seems clearly from the numbers, not from our assessments, what is being understood and when one walks the market, speaks to businessmen, who have certainly not seen any real help, because when you talk to businessmen or shoppers, they say to you: 'Where did they go this money?', which you supposedly announced. It seems clear in the figures that you are doing very little, too late and without a plan, or with a plan to break down labour rights. Because your MPs have come out here, and we are told by some that unemployment is the fault of young people who don't know how to write CV and don't google on the Internet, but you too do what you can. And you do everything you can - I have told you - because you want to face this crisis as an opportunity for a great restructuring both in the market and at work. By dismantling industrial relations you legalise unpaid and undeclared work by introducing unpaid overtime for quarantine workers. Reduce the Christmas gift for workers who have been suspended contracts. You are still delaying the increase in the minimum wage, at least by the end of March 2021, which has already been cancelled for the year that you promised to vote. You are prolonging the suspension of contracts, namely the subsidisation of unemployment. Prolong the unsuccessful programme of wage reductions to the essence and transform full into partial and rotating work. Expand the possibility of overtime by means of a unilateral decision by companies. You allow free redundancies for workers in seasonal enterprises who were suspended on 30 June, even if the company is fully subsidised by the State for employers' contributions. What else can you do? And the most worrying thing is the ones that come. What is coming is the most worrying and I shall certainly refer to pensions and insurance. We said we'd talk about the Pissaridis project, but I saw your advisers talk about these designs. Here we have a straightforward targeting of the social state. The privatization of subsidiary insurance, easier redundancies, cheaper overtime without prior declaration, a reduction in the benefits to the unemployed and maternity benefits for civil servants, a reduction in the protection of workers. But these are old ideas, they're not new. Memorandum ideas. And of course, you are determined to drive young insured persons and their contributions to private insurance companies. But this will also cause a direct problem for the current supplementary pensions and a huge budget deficit. Consequently, either pensions or deficits will be reduced by the citizens, by increasing taxes, contributions and wages and allowances. There's no other version. And all that in his name that we should not pay the elderly, but we should deal with young people. You are also abolishing any concept of transgenic solidarity. I'm closing up with the first home thing. That's the end of judicial protection. Acquisition law new. Even if you're in the law of Katseli and there's a court ruling, there's no protection. Owners will be invited to become tenants in their own homes, while in the bankrupt businesses, workers will be made redundant without compensation. Don't you understand that this is how you accelerate the recession even more? These are coming, honourable Members of the New Democracy. I'll be here, here we'll be, we'll talk about it, we'll talk it over and over again. I'll only tell you. It needs a change of strategy to bring about recovery. And we need support for the economy, support for both demand and supply - we have told them since March - with a forward package that you refused. Now you see the consequences. And it also needs a different production model. It was not sustainable, nor was the period of growth, before the memorials, which were basically commemorative of society. So now we need to combine the recovery of the economy when it comes, and with the change in the productive model. It is not only enough to talk about growth, both in the direction of green development and modernization in the context of new technologies. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying this: the government shows that it is failing to manage the economic crisis anyway, as well as health. It is not enough today to have the servitude, arrogance, cynicism, as if you had no understanding of anything that is happening in Greek society, because in television indicators citizens see a different reality from the one they live in their daily lives. In any case, today you have shown us that you are probably convinced of this daily propaganda too. They caught a place on the Pecha list. You told us you'd bring another round. Bring in a second and a third. This will not save you as long as the daily lives of the citizens become miserable. You were elected by stressing strong growth - that is what you pointed out - and jobs. You have brought not just the recession in a year, but underdevelopment I will say, not only at the pace of the economy, but also in education, health and democratic rights. You rule by lying and fear, by deceiving and authoritarianism. Your authoritarianism, however, cannot hide the truth, nor can lies for long impose fear. You will find us across, with strong opposition criticism, because we believe that this place, and especially the new generation, deserves a better future.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u67	I will now give the Prime Minister the floor to do his tritology. I explained to you some demands that require it. Mr Koutsoubas, who was his turn now, told us in his protagonist that he would not give a second answer and will therefore not continue to take part in today's debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor for five minutes for your tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u68	I'm gonna need a minute as I've already misused time. We will have the opportunity, Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Velopole, to discuss the economy in the next few weeks, on the occasion of the Thessaloniki International Economic Forum. I will not go into the trouble of responding to the new black image presented by Mr Tsipras. I imagine that if things were so bad, somehow this citizens' intolerance would be unsuccessful. Personally, I see the government, despite the difficulties, still having a reserve of confidence of the Greek people. And in any case, this government has been elected for four years. It will implement its government plan and honour citizens' confidence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, as you said, here we are, we will be, but here we are, I take the floor to restore the truth. You said you objected only to the opening of primary schools. Statement by the Department of Education Mr. Friends: "The Government has decided for political reasons to take on its own the great and unnecessarily sanitary risk of the reopening of schools and the first and second grades." I give it to you in the Minutes, because at some point you need to know at least what your department managers have said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You were against the opening of schools as a whole. You were slapping and then on the fact that the opening of schools could cause a new outbreak of the virus. You are showing - and I am sorry to say - that you may almost welcome the fact that some things may not have gone exactly the way we planned for them. Once again you referred to the fact that I did not make self-criticism. Twice I did my own self-criticism, and I have no difficulty in doing it again. But - I will tell you again - you are presenting a picture of almost satisfying everything that is wrong in the country by talking about underdevelopment referring to an economic crisis unprecedented for the whole planet. If you're referring to six months of evidence, that's all we have. When we have the ninth-month data, we will discuss with the ninth-month figures and when we have the figures of the year, we will discuss with the figures of the year. Right now we have six months' evidence and that's what we're going on. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From there on, Mr President, the rest of the economy and black image presented by Mr Tsipras will have the opportunity, as I said, to discuss them. However, I would just like to say one sentence on the issue of the new Banking Code of Second Opportunities. I found it interesting that we've put the bill in consultation at least two or three weeks now. This is the first time I've ever heard of a position from you on the subject. Maybe you're still in summer race. This bill is exactly what his title says: 'Second chance'. It homogenises provisions that are extremely problematic and enables people who, in your own context, would find themselves completely unprotected, because you had agreed to lift the protection of the first home, to have the opportunity to reside in their homes, not to have the phenomena of the evictions we have seen in so many other countries and to be able to regain their property if they have the economic potential to do so. And on the issue of the second pillar of capitalisation, we belong to the category of parties that are consistent in the election and post-election of what we are saying. We talked about the need for the second pillar to acquire capitalising features. We don't surprise anyone. The Pissaridis Committee, which recommends itself, does not consist of people who are ideologically close to New Democracy. Perhaps you should realise at some point that you have remained in the past and that the world and Greece have moved forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u69	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos is now called at Step for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. I did not expect that "before you were speaking, three..." some journalists will have to twist what they say. And I want us to be careful about what the Greek Solution says at least. Already the liker started the other way "Documentos" and Mr. Tsipras fell into the slip to read "DOCUMENTO", because the leverage of the truth with your lie makes Vaxevani at the end. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Unfortunately, he doesn't understand what we're saying. SYRIZA's president had to understand what we told him. We're clear. We're talking about ages under twelve. We don't say no to the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u71	Okay, I got it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u72	I just want to tell Mr. Tsipras that he likes everything that the ball has in militant journalism, even "Baxevanes", but I personally am not against the mask, as you implied. And the following point you have made is that you have fought the syllables with Macedonia with various sprayed ones, with various thoughts, I think it was an unfortunate moment for you, Mr Tsipras. And I repeat and I will say again that it has nothing to do with the rally for Macedonia, and it is not Mr Tsipras's fault that he is the Prime Minister who left because you had to do the examination for Macedonia with Kotzia to see how Macedonia was betrayed. But it gives him immunity and can provoke us into this House, so we don't forget. I am still waiting for the exam to be tabled by the President of Parliament. In other words, in short, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, especially from Macedonia, you are conspiracy-makers. That's what Tsipras told you. Those of you who disagree with the subject of Macedonia's name to the Skopje are conspiracies. In any case, it is the New Democracy's fault for what is happening. Here I have submitted evidence to the Prime Minister, and he has fallen into the slip to interpret how he suits what I have said. I repeat and repeat, under twelve years of age, children are not easy to wear masks. It's over and over! Anyone who realizes what I'm saying is aware of it. Now that I have tabled contradictory statements of his own scientists, that I have submitted data from the World Health Organisation, that I have tabled contradictory statements to the channels of the scientists who he himself invoked, and that he did not interpret it himself either. He's just talking abstractly about scientists. Now who are those scientists who say other things in the morning at noon, at noon, but I do not understand it, nor could I accept that they are scientists. They left, of course, it's okay. I have already heard about tourism, about when tourism has been opened, because tourism has opened, because tourism has had to open, instead of fighting, fighting, opposing, talking about changing the country's production model. Because tourism is a high risk of economic policy. It seemed from the pandemic, from a hot episode, all the tourism could collapse. It also appeared from the pandemic - and I am addressing the neo-democrats - that if we have a total lockdown on the planet, this country cannot feed its population, because most food is imported. And when I insist on the primary sector, that is to say, reducing imports at the level of food products, so that we are not dependent at all times and at all times on any lockdown that the government or the WHO or the European Union will do. Don't eat each other! We eat each other, we do not produce food, we make 70% with 80% imports of meat! He's talking his own problem, he says we have a problem of self-sufficiency and adequacy. And they fight for tourism, for airplanes - because that is the truth - the New Democracy filled it because it was demanded by the 'TUI'. Mr Tsipras, Mr TUI and Mr AEGEAN did not dare to say so. They asked for it as reasonable, businessmen are, he says, "I can't go in every month," but we dare say names. That's not bad. As on ships, the shipowner wants a profit, he's a businessman. The government wanted tourism. So the businessman wants 100% completeness. It makes sense, it's a businessman. But I have a few questions. The Prime Minister said that we had no case on ships and on planes, as if in "AEGEAN" when the flight attendants made them a coronary test. But who are we kidding now? Or would the companies announce that they had their coronary crews? So is shipowners. You know? I'm tired of half-truths. I'm tired of your lies. It is sincerely hideous to convince yourself first - because the good liar convinces himself - and to try to convince us. Hey, you don't convince us! You can't convince us! This is where the Prime Minister told us that the mask is pedagogical. Pedagogical or mask! Is the mask pedagogical? Look for the word to see what "educational" means and what "trainer" means. All right, verbal - I'll say it - reports that are inconsistent with logic. Also, to make it clear, I read the WHO and I read it again for some people to inspire it, because I know you'll have the journalists from this evening saying that the Greek Solution is against the mask. The Greek Solution expressed scientific reservations from the World Health Organisation for children under the age of 12. But listen to what WHO says: It speaks of personalised masks, very good application of the face and asks for all conditions to be fulfilled for all ages. And the Greek Government enters and makes it compulsory, that is to say, that it enables the WHO to think that a child from twelve years of age and undergoes problems and decides to do so. That is what we said and we insist on. I've seen all of you have red eyes. Look at each other! That means something. And because there are not many people who believe, so I submit from the World Health Organization what I said to end the story, because fairy tales are good, but the dragon has eaten them all. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] End the story! And stop using everyone who's lying. I repeat. And to be clear, the World Health Organization says it creates problems in the child's mental state. He's saying it clearly. And I'll tell you something else. Say we're wrong and you're the Einsteins. If the current rationale of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy had always been in place to demonise the opposite view of science, we would still be killed by a plague due to a lack of penicillin. If what they said were true, the opposite view, arguing about the Greek Solution, would still turn the earth, because science is not static but dynamic. We have therefore tabled proposals. Do you know what the head of the World Health Organisation said today? Curiously, the Prime Minister didn't know. Didn't any of his advisers tell him? I shall read it to you this out of the 'ASSOCIATED PRESS'. Tedro Adam Gebregesus, therefore, stated that the world should be better prepared for the next pandemic, as he called on countries to invest in public health. Listen to it! He said that the Prime Minister invoked it. But he's still not hired, and we still haven't got any doctors. The World Health Organization says to invest in public health, and we have people coming out on the channels to inform us and send people to private medical services to do the 120 euro test. I have the possibility, and I did it three times in a private office, and I paid for it. But the poor don't. I'm going to read you something else now, because you're going to weird social reflexes, into weird windstorms. Thanasis Kikinis, President of the Teaching Federation of Greece: "We receive threatening letters from parents about masks in schools." Do you understand where we're going? Today, the news report by Nikos Hatzinikolaou on "AND1" was told by the President of the Teaching Federation that teachers are threatened. Because when you impose a measure without having told the citizen and the state as a whole that you are right and impose it, you go to authoritarianism. And this action, this compression will be a reaction. And neither are conspiracies. You just didn't convince them, because you had each of the scientists come out without self-citizens, as Mr Lebanese quite rightly said - I heard him with my ears - and say what he wants. He can't say anything more about each other and be on the same committee. It can't be done! You can't wake up one day and say another day to say other things. So let us also look at the responsibility of all of us, and above all the government that left out of control - in introductory words -'sciences' to say'sciences' to each other. And I say 'within import', because they were paid and paid and not free - without import - scientists with no wages and no wages. I testified them here. Three, four scientists took 1,700,000 euros, which means good relations with companies. And in order not to push you any further and not to say more, I will speak two minutes about the economy, Mr President, because Mr Mitsotakis told us that Mr Tsipras said it was all black. Well, it's not all black. Good, it's all white. It's all white, it's all good. All right! So I'll tell you your math is not coming out. Mr Varoufakis told you something very appropriate about deflation, which I said before. At the beginning of the pandemic, you talked about 24.5 billion euros. "We will give 24 billion to the relaunch of the economy..." etc., "of which 14.5 billion are budgetary and 10 are loans." Listen to your math! We, Mr. Villiardos and the financial staff of the Greek Solution have not been able to count them over 10 billion. Now how you guys make it 24.5 billion euros, I didn't get it. The Minister of Development's answer to a question tells us about 11.5 billion euros. Isn't that right, Mr. Villardo? The Minister for Development replied in writing. And we'll give you the answer for the Prime Minister to see her. Listen. Indeed, it does not only include budgets, while the European Commission's report in May 2020 mentions 6.2 billion. Either you don't know or you're lying or doing whatever you want. Decide! Here, the Economic Commission of the European Union speaks of 6.2 billion. There she is! We'll testify to her in the Minutes too, so we don't lie to the Greek people. Because I go out and ask businessmen, I go out and ask people and they tell me they really bore me. The Minister's answer to Mr. Villiard is here. Here, it's all here together, because the Greek Solution didn't come in to lie, as the Opposition says or as the government says and make the numbers. The Greek Solution came out to answer you with arguments. That is the purpose of our existence, so that you can improve and stop lying. Others announce, but they do. Initial measures for March, May, after June, the 'Cooperation - WORK' programme with borrowers from the 'SURE' programme. He was telling us about the 'SURE' programme, but it is loans. These are interest loans we'll pay back. "The Prime Minister has announced..." - Listen here! - "...14.5 billion, but..." - I'm not pulling out the numbers - "...the financial board approved 5 billion in April. And now it is taking another 6 billion off the budget, i.e. 11 billion." No numbers. 'But that also includes 1.4 billion for pensions, so an amount of 9.6 billion'. That's the money that's going to be given. How you make it, how you cook it, I don't understand. I must also say that this money includes money for immigrants - illegal immigrants for us, 'immigrants' - which is about 600 million. The honourable Prime Minister said about the Pissaridis Commission. I really didn't understand him. In a hundred and fifty pages, no reference to strengthening the primary sector. What kind of committee is this? Where did you find them? From Sirius, did you get them down? Where? Andromeda? Not a single reference to the primary sector despite the 70 billion that the government will receive from the European Union, loans, ESDPs, grants. Not a single reference to the primary sector. Is that how we're gonna go forward? You're wrong. And to close, I'm going to tell you: Conde, evil Conde, put veto on multinational companies competing in Italian companies, State aid - mammoth in Italian production business the other day. It applies what the Greek Solution says: economic patriotism and national protectionism, because it is difficult times. And to tell you something else: all European countries have a huge problem with their GDP and debt. Why don't they take more reorganisation measures, as you would say about your financial nature, that is, wage and pension cuts, and everyone's giving money to the market? So you did something wrong with the memos. All of you. You compressed wages, compressed pensions, cut the money off of the market today - to give the numbers to end all of them - while we are the fifth country in PDO products, which is one hundred in number, we are last in the turnover. We have 100 products for protection of the designation of origin. We are the fifth country in these products and last in the turnover with 1.3% of the 50 billion turnover of European products. I'll testify the painting for whoever wants it. And to understand what policies you are making, I say to you: you have closed three sugar factories. And you didn't turn it off at random. You left your golden party directors and presidents there to desolate business, you put the wages of arrogant people to have party clienteles and praetorians and legions. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I don't care who, Mr. Comrade. You've all done it. We had three factories. And I go to the supermarket today, and I buy sugar from Germany. That's our catalyst. A country that exports millions of euros to sugar to import sugar from Germany. That's our difference. And let me tell you, Mr Macedon, that you are protesting, as regards the fall in housing turnover in Eastern Macedonia, Drama: 71%. Sea: 90%. Kavala: 73%. Xanthi: 80%. Rhodope: 72%. Regarding the focus, Drama: 51% down. Evros: 43%. Sea: 77%. Kavala: 54%. Xanthi: 52%. Rhodope: 38%. I'll testify to the Minutes. Why am I saying that? Because you do not understand one thing: While you reduce family budgets and cut wages and pensions, you are so much off the money market. And the main one: Support the primary sector. He's the only one who can feed us. Only he can regenerate the country. I wanted to talk about both the AEZ and the other issues, the Greek-Turkish. I will say one thing: I am sincerely ashamed that for thirty whole days the national sovereignty has been rushing, the Greek continent is rushing, and our country is not responding with something very simple, with a National Security Council to discuss the red lines. So, should the Turks, the new Selem, the Sultan, arrive in Sounio? And you expect Merkel, are you expecting America or Russia or France to save us? The only people who can help us are the French, because we have common interests. But there, I'm afraid you're gonna cheat McCrone. Merkel will press you and you will not buy 'bell'. And I fear that what I have proposed to the Prime Minister - and he is not here to confirm it - is to take the whacks used and new at the same time, you will not do that either. I wish they were both, because Greece can only be independent on one condition: a powerful army, a powerful navy, a powerful military machine and an air force. Otherwise we're defeated. Understood. The Turks want war and will have it and will do it whenever they want it, not whenever we expect them to do it to us. And Kastelorizo and your eyes! And the other fourteen islands!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Prime Minister tell me that he does not allow me to talk about his government's 'gifts' in the parasitic oligarchal private sector. It does not allow me to support the fact that they have chosen not to create a public network of mass tests; it does not allow me to show that, in order not to "tire", ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the funds and the troika, you are 'tiring' the work. It disturbs him and does not allow me, in the end, to reveal that ELSTAT itself took the remission of the second semester to 18%. ELSTAT has three indicators. They are the same indicators that all bankers, all central bankers, the International Monetary Fund. In deflation period, all the world's economists are looking at the current prices. You don't care. I am not allowed by the Prime Minister or by him to say. Prime Minister, when did I ask for your word? When did I ask for your permission? Here we are to express the citizens who have sent us to Parliament. Eventually, right doesn't change. The authoritarianism is inside you. I've made a mistake, and I did it before, in my prototype, and I'll make it up to you. I'm used to making this mistake because I have good faith. I want to believe the Prime Minister and some of his partners are liberal. I spoke in my protology about the xenophobic right that warms up on their crust. No, Prime Minister, I apologise. You don't warm it to your crust on the xenophobic Right. You have it deep in your soul, in your mind, in your thoughts. I won't make that mistake again, I promise. However, we will not be drawn into any such controversy. We will continue with arguments and with a view to dialogue. The Prime Minister said a bit of scoring and mocking: “The 4 billion of tourism that Mr Varoufakis took is considered to be crumbs. They are not crumbs.’ And his MPs stood up and applauded him. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of these 4 billion, if we had done what Mer25 proposed, which are mandatory tests for those who want to come to Greece, we would not have lost the 4 billion. Let's go and lose the 1 because those who wanted to come to Greece and those who came to Greece this year were the ones who really wanted to come to Greece. They'd run the test, especially we'd help them, not samplebooks, but everyone. Suppose some didn't come. We would even lose one quarter of these 4 billion. We'd lose 1 billion. The Prime Minister spoke about the capitalisation that he hopes to have next year by the good name of Greece. I told you today that the UK Government put Lesvos, Tinos, Serifos, Mykonos, Crete, Santorini with your sunset and, of course, Zakynthos on the quarantine list. You burned this capitalisation for time. Was it worth that 1 billion to burn down capitalisation for the year? So, your cost study - benefit what tells you? Didn't McKinsey teach you about Cost - Benefit analysis? Ladies and gentlemen, I will neither be drawn away from the fictitious anger of the Prime Minister, because with this term we entered the House as Mer25, describing Greece as a "court of debt". Mr Mitsotakis was angry and said: 'With what right of a Member and indeed the President of Parliamentary Group, a party of the Greek Parliament, is referred to in the country as 'courts'? First of all, I must say that I admire the convenience with which a party leader called "New Democracy", who along with PASOK, threw the country of unsustainable debt, which created the debt-court, has the courage to shoot the messenger. Of course, this is part of an effort by all the Memorandum Prime Ministers. I remember Mr Papandreou along with Mr Papaconstantinou that I was a high priest of bankruptcy when I said that the Greek public bank went bankrupt and that, as a result of this, there would be a chain of reaction, banks, the private sector, i.e. for what I was saying they described me as, as Mr Mitsotakis does today, joining this memorial block, an ethnic traitor, because I told the truth. The patriot, ladies and gentlemen, is the one who says that we have this problem and we need to resolve it. He is not the one who supports with all it is the ones who created the problem, the troika and serves them slavely and rajadhit. But you did not mind, Mr President-in-Office, the reference to the term 'debtorship'. You didn't attack me because you were dressed for telling the truth. What truth? When the crisis started, we had EUR 240 billion of GDP. When I got into the Treasury, we had 175 billion euros. Of the EUR 240 billion at EUR 175 billion. "Baroufakis has brought the crisis." How old was it last year? Of the EUR 175 billion we had a very small, lukewarm - not recovery - growth. Of the EUR 175 billion that was when I took over, it went to EUR 187 billion. It had started from the EUR 240 billion and you took it to EUR 175 billion in December 2014. Last year he went to 187 billion euros. This year it will fall to EUR 165 billion at best. Debt went to 311 billion euros when I entered the ministry. When I got out a little bit, I don't want to take care of that. But today with what has been happening for three, four years with Mr Tsipras' third and fourth memorandum and what you are preparing, we have reached 350 to 360 billion euros. No, the Prime Minister is mad at something else that I brought him into a difficult position again. He pretended to be angry with the exact term "debtoria", not to answer one more time. Because my question was specific, ladies and gentlemen. I've done it twenty times. My tongue's hairy. Do you commit not to reduce supplementary and main pensions? That's what I said. Answer me. Instead of being angry, answer 'yes' or 'no'. Say you can't commit or commit. Say it! So, did you see? The fictitious anger and the attack on the "destroyer" of the Greek economy! From the EUR 240 billion you went to the EUR 175 billion, today it is about 180 billion of euros and it was attacked - Mr Mitsotakis dared - the only Minister of Finance who did not put a tax on one euro, nor did he reduce one euro, nor did he add one euro to the public debt. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you, especially the Members of the New Democracy who have been taken away from this government that you want to believe, because we all want to believe our group, but who, at the same time, also maintain a critical capacity: yes to all the great powers, especially in Berlin, as it has permanently undermined our national issues. You hope that Mrs Merkel will penalize Mr Erdogan to abide by him. That's not gonna happen. Mrs Merkel expresses financial interests which have deep investment in Turkey. There will be no sanctions in Turkey by the European Union. Penalties inhumane only to the Greek people have been imposed. As patriots, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, tell us what I was saying, what of what I proposed to Mr. Shoeble, to Mr. Draghi, to Mrs. Lagard was justifying their military action to close our banks? It wasn't a sanction to shut us down by the banks. It was a war act. The German Foreign Minister said so. Describe this process of torture. What, then, did that bring not this sanction but this war act, the closure of banks in 2015? The refusal to cut the NSA off to the battalions? My refusal - and I would like you as I am supposed to be a neoliberal party with me - to impose 100% advance tax on small and medium-sized enterprises, on all companies? Our refusal to deliver a loot to the "FRAPORT" fourteen airports with money from the Greek banks, which the Greek citizen has given, for recapitalisation? Accepting a primary surplus that destroys you too? It makes you weak, weak and helpless to secure a fiscal policy. So we arrived today not to protect our citizens, because you and SYRIZA, and of course PASOK did not stand up to the historical circumstances in 2015, when we said "no to the advances, not to the primary surpluses" that the Greek public incapable of dealing with this pandemic today. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I really am honored by the Prime Minister's anger. As the hatred of the troika and all the domestic oligarchs who serve it honors me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u75	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify some of the figures that have been heard in the Chamber concerning recruitment in the field of health. Let me say that, at the beginning of the pandemic, you were telling us where the recruitment of subsidiary doctors is. And while our initial programming was the two thousand subsidized staff hired, we have reached six thousand ten three subsidized personnel right now in the health system. This procedure was initiated on SYRIZA and, instead of SYRIZA making progress as a government in the recruitment of permanent staff, he used the subsidiary's tool and strengthened the health system with temporary rather than permanent solutions. So since everyone understood that we have exceeded the six thousand subsidized staff hires today, a lot has been heard about the permanent recruitment of personnel to the health system. I'm telling you the evidence. A pool of staff in hospitals and primary health care structures: in May 2019 ninety-one thousand four hundred sixty-one people. In May 2020, ninety-seven thousand thirty-two people are employed in hospitals and primary care structures. The recruitment of a thousand two hundred doctors to permanent posts of medical staff plus four hundred posts that we place in the next few days, the two of which will be allocated to cover positions in intensive care units that we are building in order to increase the total number of beds available in the country with a plan, together with a plan. Also, a thousand and sixteen other staff posts are completed through ADP in September. A month ago, in August, the notice of other ancillary staff of a thousand and two hundred persons for the National Health System was published. Another very important thing is that within September two thousand two thousand two hundred fifty nurses began to specialize. It is a major reform for the National Health System and public health. Our nurses will specialize. And the majority, the six hundred of them, will be directed to intensive care units. This is how we shield the National Health System in order to deal with possible adverse development of the coronary. As we did at first, as we've done so far, so the battle we have before us will be victorious. The National Health System every day is more equipped, more economically strengthened, provides new services to citizens in order to serve them and is the great opportunity, the credit we have created during this pandemic, to stay in the National Health System and to move faster and faster the reforms that the system needs to meet the needs of all citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. I would like to make some announcements to this House. The Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Ministers of State, Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law : « Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Affairs, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Ministers of State, Deputy Minister of Finance, as well as the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Minister for Culture and Sport, of 10.8.20 Act of Legal Area « Emergency Operations to address emergency needs of the National Health System, protection against the dispersion of KOVID, support of the labour market and facilitate the educational process ('" 157 ). It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Furthermore, the Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 4.9.2020: ‘Definition of the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation of the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of the Interior of the Russian Federation in the field of the fight against crime of 6 December 2001’. The Minister of Civil Protection, Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted on 4.9.2020 a draft law: ‘Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on common control over the Nymphaia-Mkaza border corridor, concluded by exchanging private communications (Athens, 6 November 2013 and Sofia, 17 July 2014, respectively)’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, held at the initiative of the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group on "Cinnamon CHANGES" Mr Fotini (Photini) Gennamata, at the level of the Heads of Government, on the problems posed by the outbreak of pandemic in public health, the economy, workers and the beginning of the new school year, has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-07-S1-commons.u78	With the consent of this House at 23.38p., the sitting on Wednesday 9 September 2020 is closed at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
