ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy year to all, health, peace and development for our country. Before entering the debate on topical and urgent questions, I would like to announce that Members of Parliament, Mr Dionysios Stamenitis and Mr Patsi, are requesting permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permits. I would also like to make the following announcements: The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport and Tourism submitted a draft law on 3-1-2020: "Consolidations on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union". Referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, Citizen Protection and Justice tabled a draft law on 24-12-2019: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the US Government on consular privileges and immunities". The Ministers for Foreign Affairs, Finance, National Defence, Shipping and Island Policy tabled a draft law on 24-12-2019: "Preparation of the Protocol amending the Mutual Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America". The Greek Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, Finance and Foreign Affairs submitted 27-12-2019 a draft law: "Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates for mutual recognition and exchange of driving licences". The Ministers for Culture and Sport, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Civil Protection tabled a draft law on 30-12-2019: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and illegal import, export, trafficking or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin". The Ministers of Infrastructure, Transport, Economic and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 30-12-2019: 'Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences'. The Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs and Justice tabled a draft law on the establishment of a Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. The Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports and the Minister of Finance and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law on 31-12-2019: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan". The Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice and Rural Development and Food tabled a draft law on 3-1-2020: "Creation of the Minamata Convention on Mercury". The Ministers of Infrastructure and Transport, Economics, Foreign Affairs and Shipping and Island Policy submitted a draft law on 7-1-2020: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Authority for Terrestrial and Maritime Transport of the United Arab Emirates on International Carriage of Goods and Passengers". The Minister of Culture and Sports, Economic and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 7-1-2020: ‘Definition of the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Economic and Education and Religious Affairs submitted a draft law on 8-1-2020: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro Scientific and Technological Cooperation". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution, and to Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 27-12-2019, a criminal case against the former Ministers of George Stathakis, Alexandros Flamouraris and Ioannis Drasakis. In addition, the MP, Mr Panagis Capatos, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u3	The House approved the requested permission. Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the FAQ on Friday 10 January 2020: ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 350/7-1-2020 is a topical question by MP 2 West Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Financial Assistance for Floods in Kineta with care for secondary residences". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 346/7-1-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Provision of a node connecting the access road to the New Airport with the provincial road Arkalochori - Kastelli". 3. The 342/7-1-2020 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The situation in the General Hospital of Thorakos Diseases “The Salvation””. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House) 1. The 347/7-1-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let us finally begin the implementation procedures of the Open City Plan (SOCOP) Municipality of Minoa Pedadas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Today we have four questions. They are few and we will therefore have a freedom, a tolerance to the placements. The ministers are here. There is a letter from the Secretary of Government about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u4	What's that letter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u5	It is the document confirming the presence of the ministers, but above all the absence of them. Today we don't have a situation like this. It's just confirmation of the presence. We begin with the second under number 340/7-1-2020 in the first cycle of MP B1 Northern Athens Department of Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: “Conspiracy of Children”. Mr. Loverdou's question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. Mr. Loverdo, you're still asking the question. I remember. Accidentally, I've been presiding twice before in the previous government. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u6	First of all, Mr President, I would like to wish everyone and all a good year with health, with a parliamentary light and a good light, that is, good minds. That is what the people mean when they give the wish to 'good light', to have good minds, because they often lack good minds. Yes, indeed, we were twice when I had tabled a similar question to the former Ministers of Justice, but another four times - you were not in the Bureau - I have come back on the same subject. This is the seventh time today that I have tabled the relevant question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u7	I don't wish you'd incline them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u8	I hope it's the last one. Mr President, speaking to the Minister of Justice on behalf of you, I would like to ask him really this time not to reintroduce this issue and dialogue, but to demand that the relevant dialogue be held in the Standing Committee on Justice when the draft law is submitted. A draft law on the conspiracy of children, on equality between men and women, on the right of the child to take up a rearing that arises from both his parents? Oh, no. Maybe not just that. In the context of a reform of family law, however, this should come as well. But if, Minister, the reform of family law is delayed, then perhaps the question of conscientiousness should come to the House, be tabled to the House in the form of an amendment, because there is too much time lost and there is still more to be done, but there is also an increase in number. What's our problem? Our problem is that since June 2016, when I raised the issue during the Minister of Culture, for the first time I received an optimistic answer from the then Minister. He told me that in the context of the reform of family law, and this issue is going to be resolved. I returned in October of the same year, in 2016, and was promised that the relevant legislative initiative will be ready in December 2016. But the Minister has changed. The next Minister, Mr Kontonis, was not in the same mood because he believed, on the legal side, that there is no need for change. He was also criticised by his party, by members of his party, with texts that I read in the editors' Newspaper or the "AGEAN". The next Minister of Government SYRIZA, Mr. Kaloger, was positive. He didn't. Now you should tell the National Representation if you are going to be on the one hand positive, and on the other hand briefly, because a number of problems have arisen, in addition to family dramas, related to other issues, such as taxation. The Citizens’ Counsel has also been seized. In my denture, if necessary, I'll say more, waiting to hear what you have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u10	I too would like to say my wishes for the new year and, of course, to supplement what you said, Mr Loverdo, that it will indeed be a year when our country will take the necessary and necessary steps to get out of this critical period that has passed over previous years and that will work for the good of the citizens, for the good, indeed, of the Greek society. It is indeed impressive and positive, I would say, that at the first sitting, in essence, you are coming back with a subject that is very sensitive and which you are showing a consequence, not only because you have dealt with many times - I remember the legislative initiative you have taken with the two chosen colleagues, Mr Amyras and Mr Katsiantoni, by tabling a relevant amendment recently - but, above all, because it is a matter which I think is very much or very much in the knowledge of all of us, it concerns us all and makes us all think in what direction we need to move. I imagine that you, like many other colleagues, especially in these Christmas days, have become societals of many issues and issues that have arisen from parents - well-meaning vigilances, I call them - who without their own will have passed the holidays from any communication with their own children. This is a situation which I think one could easily characterise as socially and legally unacceptable. It is true that it violates human rights primarily of children and then their parents. Because if we have to prioritise our own targeting, we have to see that the interests of the child must be the absolute and first priority. I think that, through all this, which has been preceded, it is now time to open up a mature dialogue, not to discuss it, but to come to an end. And I want to be clear: I am not hiding you that, as soon as the day before yesterday, the first meeting we held at the Ministry of Justice with the Secretary-General, with the Secretary-General and all the partners, one of the issues that we raised and which we actually raised as a priority of the Ministry's policy, is to see and address this issue. And I say this because we are now mature enough to deal with it, since the legal practice has led to a specific rule that has led to the de facto assignment of the sole custody of a child in the event of divorce to one of the two parents. Of course, by overwhelming percentage this parent is the mother and we know how it works. However, we are all commons of a reality that misuse of commissioned custody eventually leads to the child’s disfellowshipping of communication with the other parent. And there is no doubt that in these cases the interests of the child, which we are all supposed to be invoking and which, of course, even the original judicial decisions are invoked, is likely to go for a walk. That's the truth. It is therefore our duty to legislate on a modern legislative framework, which will engulf the new social conditions that are formed in the institution of the family, which will fully respect the constitutional rights of the parties - parents and child - and ultimately ensure the true interest of the child. And this is no more than the uninterrupted stay, communication and contact with both parents, even in cases of divorce or dimension, so that the child can form an integrated personality. I will also inform you in my second speech of the immediate action.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u12	It is true what you said, Minister, that in the day-to-day holidays this problem is deteriorating and dramas are growing. These days, just like you, I've had too much information about such a drama. You are also right to recall - I would do it in my dentistry, but I am now doing it - that three parties in the previous parliament had taken their place. The New Democracy with Mr. Nicos Panagiotopoulos, now Minister of Defence - who had repeatedly raised the issue with his own interventions - Mr. George Amyras on the part of Potamio and I on the part of PASOK, the Change Movement. In other words, at least with the current parliamentary data, there is a very easy and strong majority. An easy and powerful majority to adopt the joint amendment. You will tell me another parliamentary amendment and another amendment on the part of the Ministry of Justice, which will clearly be more 'built', more penetrating, which will be problematic, because there are many problems with this issue and I agree with it. However, when the Ministry of Justice exercises a legislative initiative, it has specific scientific committees that make it easier for the Minister to propose, while a Member does not have that possibility, however well legally he may know. We have a presence in our parliamentary effort in a group which has been set up, the 'conspiracy', which gives us information, so that we can be adequate in dialogue here. We are also taking texts, such as Mr Potakis, the Citizens' Counsellor, which made a relevant contribution on the tax issue, where, Minister, over the break-up of married life and the assignment of custody to mother, the father does not enjoy a discount - an increased tax reduction - because he is considered not to be diligent, even though he is paying for nutrition. In any case, Mr Potakis has recommended a positive solution to this issue. But why should we be like this? Why do you have to work every little bit and another state body? Let us move on and all the difficulties we will see in the legislative drafting of your proposal. For example, we know that sometimes geography is merciless in the matter of conscientiousness. It does not allow it, when the division of married life leads one to live in Rome and the other in Athens. We will see the appropriate solutions, but the legislative initiative must be taken. If you don't, we'll start the same again. In other words, we will be tabling proposals for legislation which the government will not accept in the light of its own legislative initiative, which will never come. So please, if you are able, give us a timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, forty-three students and schoolchildren and three teachers from the fifth Hailland High School. The House welcomes you and wishes you a good year. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u14	As I told you in my prototype, Mr Colleague, this is a time when we need to see the provisions of family law with particular interest, I would say, attention to matters of child care and custody. We have already launched the relevant meetings, as I have told you, and we have made a first record of the situation. Personally, I intend, not just to intensify the dialogue, but to conclude this debate and I say it clearly. In the next few days, it will be announced that a working party will be set up to submit the final proposals for changes, and that is what we already have - perhaps you know - an important aid. A special legislative committee on the reform of family law had been set up, with emphasis, of course, on matters relating to custody, communication and relations between parents and children, under the chairmanship of Mr. George Papageorgios, who was set up by a decision of the previous Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis. The main objective of the reform must be to ensure that parental care is taken in the direction of widening and strengthening its common exercise by both parents, even after the dimension or after the divorce. Enlargement of parental responsibility must, on the one hand, be aimed at protecting parents' rights so that they are not only deprived of communication in extreme cases, but, on the other hand - most importantly - the safeguarding of the rights of the child, who lives separately from both his parents or one of them, so that he can maintain personal relations and have direct contact with them, unless, for some reason, he is opposed to his own interests. In any case, however, it must be borne in mind that the interest of the child is the determining factor of custody and because of its nature and seriousness it prevails over that of the parents. This is a clear position in which we all want to agree. We know that science today accepts that the child's real interest is to raise it both parents. That's the truth. Of course, even in the cases of divorce or divorce, better welfare indicators are ensured when both parents and quality and quantity are guaranteed at the same time. I think that we have the opportunity and the opportunity to incorporate all these studies into a basic rule of thought, which will lead to any subsequent legislative initiative. Because there are issues which I think are not in the logic of micro-party or political controversy, we must all agree here, in the Greek Parliament, with proposals that I expect from all political parties, from the Change Movement and from the SYRIZA, so that we can conclude as soon as possible. If you ask me to set a timetable, I would tell you that we could say that by the summer of this year we will have completed such a legislative initiative, but, I repeat, with the contribution and agreement of the political parties. It's a very delicate and special issue. You mentioned the difficulties that exist, especially when there are the well-known geography reasons, i.e. the child who has to go to school, but, if he shares the time with the two parents, he cannot be in Athens and Thessaloniki either, he can't even be in Glyfada and Kifisia and you understand what I mean. Therefore, these are issues which we need to see as a whole and we must, as a guiding principle and a basic reason, keep the real interest of the child. In this sense, I would also like to call on you, with you, namely the Change Movement, but of course all the political parties, to contribute with proposals, so that we can put forward a legislative initiative which will respond to these genuinely serious and critical issues which do exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u15	We will put forward our proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u16	Good. Intent from the Opposition is there, start, Minister. The second question will now be discussed under number 348/7-1-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: 'Let the period of inertia be terminated for the construction of the Grand Justice'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I want to begin with wishes for a creative year, with health for all the citizens of the country, peace for the whole world. I come to the question, concerning the Hercules Justice, about the need for the construction of which is imperative. Working conditions in the Court of Justice, where some of the judicial authorities in Heraklion are housed, are very bad and there is even a risk to the life of the workers, the judiciary and the citizens. Of course, because the spaces are not sufficient, there are rental buildings in which most of the judicial services are housed. In this need, therefore, the state responded with its decision to create the new Judicial Palace. The site has been selected and there is the decision. Procedures for its implementation were launched. Unfortunately, there is one point and then an inertia which, of course, has something to do with the construction process and is specified here: it has about four years to go substantially. In my question to the Ministry of Infrastructure, I was told in 2018 that the file left the institution "Building Infrastructure" to go to the relevant Infrastructure Directorate. In other words, it took three years to transfer the dossier from one service to another. This inertia of the previous government, which was clearly a political inertia, for the creation of the Heraklion Judicial Palace, must be brought to an end, Minister. I want you to inform us of what action you have taken, first of all, the Ministry of Infrastructure, which has undertaken this commitment and is inactive. It was inactivating the Ministry. Let's see if it keeps inactivating now. Of course, you can tell us whether you have the information or what your intention is to set timetables. When will it be possible, in your view, to sign the contract, under which the implementation of the project will begin and which is not expected to be long? It is foreseen that within two years it will have been built, according to experts. So that's where we have to put the burden. Of course, we must also see the maintenance of the old building so that there is no risk and bad conditions for workers. But above all, we need to see what is going to happen with the new Herculous Court of Justice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is no doubt that the building problem of the country's courts is one of the most important issues in the field of justice. I would say to you that I have been personally concerned, as - I would like to believe - with the specific political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, since the first moment in my taking up my duties. We believe that the infrastructure of the judiciary is a very important factor in the proper functioning of justice, making a decisive contribution to the way it is distributed. I consider, personally, an essential task and an essential obligation of any serious state to ensure that at least the judges, judges and lawyers in the country can do their job in conditions of dignity. That is why, on the whole, from the Ministry of Justice, our political leadership and our partners as well as the technical service, although very small, we are rushing to resolve all the issues that are presented, whether as regards the maintenance of existing buildings or the launching of new buildings. The truth is that you've described more or less earlier. That's the reality. The building that houses the courts of Heraklion is the result of the construction of a Turkish building of the end of the 19th century. It was a single building, which was divided into three parts. This is, of course, a public property competence of the Heraklion Land Office. By decision - you said it more or less - of the previous political leadership in 2015 was entrusted with the work to repair the building of the judiciary after the detailed definition of individual work of the timetable and the cost of implementation. Immediately after completion of this study two issues emerged. Firstly, in order to complete the project, the ‘THEMATIC S.A.’ informed that the EBRD should be granted to the legal services and premises of building 3 that had not been granted until then. So the Ministry of Justice did not have the property of the whole man to be able to decide on his fate. Question two and more decisively, the cost of repair. The autopsy exhibition of the Heraklion Regional Unit highlighted the multiple problems of the buildings and the complexity of the studies required. The final conclusion was that the cost of repair work of between three and five million is close to and above the cost of building a new building on the same cover. In fact, it was bought - because we are now going to the real development, which we will talk about immediately after the secondary course - from the FAOFIC plot with a view to building a new judiciary, a solution which was finally chosen. So all of our actions are oriented towards this option that prescribes the involvement of the FAO to grant the land, which I have already asked for with my relevant document. I will stop here, although we still have enough to say, just to be more detailed in my speech, to come back to the subject and to tell you how the concrete development of the building of the new Judge of Heraklion has now begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Kegeroglu, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will submit to the minutes the letter from the Association of Judges of Heraklion, which is essentially the whole question of East Crete at least, since it concerns the Court of Appeal of East Crete. The letter shall indicate the status of the buildings and the request for a new court palace. [[At this point, the Member of the Movement of Change, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to say that, regardless of the choice for the new judiciary, what we need to do is the necessary maintenance, so that there is no risk and misery at the premises where the courts will continue to operate for two years until the new court palace is built. I have said two years, but it means that we must immediately take the power from the government so that the process begins. The public-private partnership gives us this opportunity. That's for sure. Once it has - and this is a positive one - it is at least at political level that the previous political leadership in this way of building the building has agreed, there are no issues of choice. So it's energy you can do immediately, you and the Ministry of Infrastructure, in order to start the construction of the project. As you have rightly said, this building is planned to be built on the privately owned plot which exists in the eastern administrative center, as is said. It is foreseen by the spatial planning, the urban plan of Heraklion, and it is something that has no problems anymore with archaeology or anything. Everything has been solved and it is only a matter of will and action. Because you had scheduled a visit to Heraklion, which has been postponed for some reasons, I think it is an opportunity today for the judiciary, but also for the lawyers and the citizens and all the people of Heraklion to be informed about your timetable and actions in order to carry out this work, in order to ensure that the period of inertia and indifference to the construction of the judiciary is brought to an end. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u22	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u23	It's kind of like you said and I'm saying it again, Mr. President. I did plan a visit which, for various reasons, did not take place. However, I intend to be in Heraklion in the near future. I know the problems that exist. I'm a society, I'm not hiding it from you that I've contacted all the bodies involved, with judges, with the lawyers' association, with the association of judicial officers. Everyone has informed me of the issues that exist. Of course, you know that very well, you have dealt with, I think, a very long time with the issues of the Justice of Heraklion and you have asked several questions, that after the absorption of the "THEMANAGEMENT S.A." by "KIRIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS S.A." for the completion of the project, the Ministry of Infrastructure is now required, which is ultimately responsible for the completion of the project. Thus, a previous decision of June 7, 2018 of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport was commissioned to the Department of Building Infrastructures of the Department of Hydraulic Ports and Building Infrastructure of the General Secretariat of Infrastructure - you described it earlier - as a contracting authority the implementation of the project through PPP for the construction of two new judiciary majors in Heraklion and Edessa. From there on, the technical development of the project on the part of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, I think, is well known to you. You have been notified in response to your relevant question. As far as the part of the Ministry of Justice's involvement is concerned, I would like to inform you that with my document from 22-10-2019 to the TAXDIK, which I will present in the minutes to you and to know all of this, I ask the TAXFIK - through its competent administrative body - for the free allocation of the full right to use the land on which the new Herculous Palace is to be erected for a period of thirty years. This is provided for in the provisions of Law 3389/2005. It is the law on public-private partnerships. It will be possible to move forward and complete it. At this point we are currently waiting - and it is a matter of a few days' time - for the meeting of the FAO's board of directors, which is the only body responsible for taking the decision. I have been informed - and indeed the exhortation was your question - that I should like to be honest with you - of the administration of the FAO that they have been asked by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and by the Directorate responsible for Building Infrastructure some clarifications of an economic nature in order to make his decision at one of the next meetings. I think that very soon we will have news on this. So we can now have the real, effective start of the work of building the new judiciary in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, which had prepared the dossier to the Interministerial PPP Committee and you know what the procedure is to be followed. After its approval and the inclusion of the project in the list of proposed partnerships, the way is now open for the preparation of the international tender for the conclusion of a PPP contract with the private partnership body so that we can - and of course we will be optimistic about this - make final announcements within a reasonable time. I think we all know it a little bit - very much. All the projects which are now entering the implementation process through public-private partnerships - you said so too during your positions - are about one and a half to two years until they are completed. So, in reality, we are at the very final stage, in order to decide and announce the whole process, so that we move to the international competition and very soon Heraklion has a new, worthy, and indeed its real needs, but of course also Crete, a judiciary, which will cover all the needs of the area of justice as a whole for the island of Crete. From there on, the issues you raised, relating to repairs, the maintenance of the already existing judiciary, I can assure you that the Ministry of Justice, in all these matters, responds directly. There is the mood from our side of all the problems, which are raised in our minds, to be resolved as soon as possible and in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u24	Please close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u25	So, as far as matters and conservation issues are concerned, I can assure you that there will not be any question until finally, Heraklion will have a new courthouse, which - I repeat - will also be exceptional in the area of justice, since there is also the design and disposal of today's government and the Ministry of Justice, but of course because it responds to a real need for Heraklion and Crete. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u26	If they have good news, we leave them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u27	Here is the first question under number 345/7-1-2020 of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Deposit of a tenth third pension from the EVA, reinstate the EVA and the lower pension". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. It is well known that budget derailment and the crisis have led to unpleasant decisions, difficult decisions for pensioners and the first time they have been faced with the suspension of the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions, but also with considerable cuts in pensioners' income. It is also known that this for the left government of SYRIZA was not enough and came to cut off others, which entered the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, such as the abolition of the CSCE by the Katorugalos Act and, of course, the definitive abolition of the thirteenth and fourteenth pension that had already been suspended in the previous period. In addition, you know very well that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and the low pension threshold of EUR 486 that was in existence and was a guarantee of a decent pension, at least for IKA. After this time when we saw court decisions under way, announcements from the Ministry, we took an initiative. We have worked out provisions relating to the reintroduction of a minimum pension, underwriting. For example, in the present circumstances, a lower threshold cannot be restored. We have worked out provisions to support micro-retired people on income criteria, of course, by reintroducing CSR, but above all by reintroducing the normal tenth main pension for all. So what I ask you, Minister, today is whether it is your intention to take the necessary steps, so that Parliament can discuss and decide to reinstate a third normal pension scheme, to set up a support mechanism for small pensioners with a new CSR - which is necessary and will be on income criteria, obviously - but also, of course, to set up a lower pension scheme in order to have a minimum decent standard of living for the pensioners. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u29	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Kegeroglu, I will agree with you that the fiscal derailment of the country for an entire decade has left open wounds, injured and reduced, not only the incomes of the retired, but all of the Greek society, free professionals, self-employed, workers. We saw unemployment escalating. All this was really a traumatic experience, which came violently into Greek society through adaptation programs. But today we are optimistic about the new decade that this government has already entered into in 2019 on the issues that you have raised - which I shall refer to in my dentistry - has begun with positive initiatives. First and foremost, we are entering as a shield on existing incomes and incomes have already begun to improve, both from the point of view of workers and pensioners, through the reduction of taxation. This is already reflected in the pocket of all pensioners and workers. Already, with initiatives taken by the social state, we are giving EUR 2 000 for every young child born with the bill already in Parliament and will be discussed in the next few days. Insurance contributions are reduced from this year, from 1 July 2020, where this will have a positive print in the workers' pocket, while at the same time within the Ministry of Labour with initiatives that we have developed in favour of pensioners we have assigned sixty thousand widow’s pensions immediately. We owed them as a state and it was something that we inherited from the previous government. We gave forty-seven thousand free professionals the money that we created - over 100 million euros - directly in their pockets, and at the same time all the farmers in the country through the administrative restructuring of the Ministry of Labour and the new 'e-ECA' that we create will now enjoy a more effective administration, as they are converted into pension centers and care centres for farmers in the country all the branches of the ECA, while first only in the capitals of the regions, only seven centres. All this and many others show that we want to help Greek society and we do so. It is well known, as you have said, that, with two crucial decisions, Decision 1891/2019 and Decision 1890/2019, the Council of State took the anti-constitutional view of Law No.4387/2016 or the so-called ‘Katrugalou Law’. We, therefore, have been prepared since the Anti-Population period, but now we have engaged in a rapid struggle to bring in a new insurance policy, a new insurance reform, which will once again cultivate the insurance consciousness of all Greeks, an insurance system that will be trusted by the entire Greek society. Farmers, employees, workers, self-employed, scientists will embrace it. His presentation will take place in the next few days, first through a national consultation and in January he will be submitted to the House. This insurance system, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, will be an epitome on a ten-year journey and will come to solve once and for all the link between a problem called the 'insurance system, loose ends and complications' which it had during the past decade. We are solved by a decade, we are solving problems many years ago, pathogens, because this new system introduces the great administrative integration of all pension providers. We are creating the great National Social Security Agency, the so-called ‘e - EVKA’, which will now incorporate two very large funds other than the others. One will be the digital transformation of "e - EVKA", of all the services of "e - EVKA", to stop this suffering and bureaucracy - we change the future of Greece with this - and secondly, the great capital of the digital pension "ATLAS" which will begin on 1 June 2020. Of course, within this bill, there will be for the first time, after ten years, increases in basic and supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u31	And increased contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u32	SYRIZA has attempted the election, under the so-called "fifty-third pension", to deceive pensioners. With an allowance, which was a ballot allowance, he tried to manipulate the conscience of the retired members of the elections. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Pensioners didn't believe him. That is why it was voted against in the elections of 7 July overwhelmingly by the people of pensioners. Because pensioners don't want insurance and benefits. They want an insurance system that is certain, trusted and they will feel that there will be no reduction in pensions again, as we commit that there will be no reduction again but increases from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u33	There's been cutbacks. Christmas took less money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u35	I'm closing, Mr. President. But the subject was particularly interesting and great. So, on this basis, we bring the new insurance policy, the new insurance reform, which will for the first time incorporate increases in the main and subsidiary, and it is our commitment that the pension expenditure fixed within this "curtain" of the thirteenth pension, as SYRIZA called it, is absolutely guaranteed as expenditure in the new insurance presentation that we will be doing in the next few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Kegeroglu, here you are, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Levanière, do not get carried away too and make programme statements, such as Mr Brutsi. We have specific issues to discuss on the basis of the question. Of course, I have to make a general remark. As SYRIZA, when making the cuts, said the previous period "we and the previous ones did", not, of course, mentioning the different circumstances that existed when Greece was on the cliff and the conditions that were created in 2014, which were completely different, but then worsened, as you, Minister, today, should not invoke all the things that SYRIZA did wrongly for pensioners, as an alibi. Yes, SYRIZA did everything you said. I said much more and he doesn't have a face today - politically, I mean - get out and say something to retired people. That's a reality. But that's where we're staying? Oh, no. So you will have to answer specifically the four questions to see how we go from now on. Firstly, it was common, if you would like, the position of all pensioners of all political parties towards the SYRIZA government that the specific provisions of the Katrugalos law, which since 2016 has issued reduced pensions, should be abolished. The first question, then, is this: will these be abolished and re-established on the basis of the previous institutional framework, so that this is a decent pension procedure? Secondly, will you reinstate the normal 15th pension, not the monkey, which is from dividends and such, which is from taxation and has income criteria? To do this more specific, normal pension is paid by the FBI, without income criteria. Is that what you intending to bring it back? Thirdly, will you reinstate the NRP or an NRP for micro-retired people, on the basis of income criteria, of course, which will come from the state budget and not from the insurance system? The last question, which concerns micro-retired people, like the ESS, is as follows: Will you set a lower threshold? This state of the Constitution recently made a commitment to ensuring a minimum decent standard of living for all Greeks. Will this respond specifically to the small pensioners, for example, to adopt the EUR 500 as a minimum pension? These are the four specific questions I ask. I'm not conducting any further analysis. I expect four specific answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u38	A little - very much now you want to warn you of the draft law that will come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u39	I asked four questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u40	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u41	In a few days' time from now, as you have rightly said, the new insurance law will be tabled in this House, so we will have the opportunity, as we will have the time, for the committees and for consultation first and foremost in plenary, to discuss with a sufficient degree all the comments, positions and views of all the parties. But what I am saying today before the National Representation is that this insurance bill will be accompanied by a thoroughly proportionate study confirming that we will comply with all the insurance rules, that the insurance system is viable by 2070, while at the same time it will be accompanied by a scientific study on pension adequacy, which will ensure that pensioners are decently treated as pensioners, which has been prepared by the Athens University of Economics. These studies will accompany the insurance bill. As regards the minimum social level, to which the honourable Member referred, I would like to say that just a few days ago here in the House, in the Revision of the Constitution we did something that was a request for decades and something that we created with Mr Kegeroglu in the Ministry of Labour, the minimum guaranteed income, which is the great social reform of the Greek state. It has been a request for many decades and we have last met it in Europe. This government has done so, upgraded it more and established it constitutionally. I would therefore like to say to the honourable Member, Mr Kegeroglu, that he is not concerned. The insurance reform is coming, which will ensure all Greek pensions. We are not going to make any reductions in pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u42	Answers to the four questions you did not answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u43	Instead, we will see for the first time pension increases after ten years, within a public social security system, which will cultivate insurance, will embrace it by all workers, scientists, self-employed, whom I now call on them to trust, to place their jobs, their insurance contributions with a feeling of confidence, because it is a system that is sustainable, sure, with a future, and particularly with a reward, which was missing from the system that we inherited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u44	Minister, with all due respect, this is a tape, it's not an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theories by twenty-four students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 5th Highlands (second section). The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We now move on to the debate of the first under number 349/7-1-2020 on a topical question from MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of the Interior, on “Great delay in the processes of naturalisation of adults and the performance of citizenship for children of the second generation”. The present Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, thank you very much. I hope for a good year, creative, with dignity and political honesty. I want to notice two things. The outgoing Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsis, cannot be identified with Mr Tsiara's political ethos and stature, which I would like to praise for the fact of his attitude - as well as Mr Loverdos - regarding the debate that took place on conscientiousness. However, let me comment - because of the deterioration of the first honourable Member I was, to a third - that in the case of conspiracy it is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u47	Evidently because of your nobility the services have been exploited rather than downgrading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u48	It's okay. However, I would like to note the qualitative and political differences even among the officials of the government itself. Mr Brutsis does not know that tomorrow there is a national strike for the five thousand young scientists twenty-nine and twenty-nine flying on the road to bring the five hundred communal bulwark who prepares from abroad, as opposed to other colleagues, such as Mr Tsiaras who accepts in collaboration with other political forces to have an intergroup, but above all social understanding on such an important issue, such as conscientiousness. For the thirteenth pension, other words love each other...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u49	But get to your point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u50	I'll be right in, Mr. President. The House's associates could put a tape out of an earlier report by Mr. Brutsi. He didn't even have to come in person and answer for nothing. I would particularly like to wish Mr Livianio a good year, because that is why I have tried this timely question, when he has responded with great sensitivity and honesty, without civilisation in the first report on an important issue that we hide under the carpet - I do not exclude SYRIZA from responsibilities - for many years now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u51	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u52	It is therefore the naturalisation of three categories of people and the performance of citizenship. They are the foreigners, the expatriates and the young people who have been embraced have passed the Greek education. With a rough look at the only official evidence available from 2010 to 2018, about sixty thousand such applications are pending for these people. They are children of the second generation of foreign and economic migrants. They are the expatriates from the Northern continent, but also the repatriators from the countries of the former Soviet Union. Finally, there are young people who, as I said, have watched, embraced, who have passed the Greek education. On this basis, therefore, of the two hundred thirty thousand requests submitted from 2010, some sixty thousand outstanding cases remained until 2018. There's a lead that's shocking. The waiting time for the application and the procedure that included the interview for Thessaloniki, which is my constituency, Mr Levanie, is a thousand four hundred ninety-four days. If you turn it into years, you'll be scared. We are talking about a man who participates in the Greek economy, in Greek society and his children were born and grew up here. Families are deprived of this right and must wait at best if they do not use pastoral methods, a thousand four hundred ninety-four days. I will, in essence, develop it more thoroughly for proposals and initiatives that have been taken. I will remain in my protology in a human history, a true story that I believe is the basis for which we can all agree. It's Lisa's story. I met Lisa a while ago. She is a young woman who faces health problems, but raised her family by cleaning stairs. I'm not dramatizing or presenting them in theater. That woman came from Albania. She offered the Greek society two young children, her children, her son and her daughter. Her daughter is currently a scholarship student of the School of Medicine in Thessaloniki. And her son is also a scholar at the Polytechnic University in aeronautics speciality and, indeed, with excellent performance in research, as his work acquires international scope. These two children have not yet taken their Greek identity and previously naturalization and citizenship. What did Lisa tell me? It was proposed two solutions, Mr Minister: Or go to a particular legal office in Thessaloniki - and I say this with full awareness - which also relates to secondary administration in Central Macedonia or to giving money. It is not just the paradox, the already high, which was at 700 euros and down to 550. As far as who and respecting the space is concerned, it is a question that the Greek state and the relevant Ministry must answer. I do not want to make it rumours and rumours, but they are solid narratives of people who have no reason to dramatise events, because they have been living the problem for many years. I'm stopping here. I have a duty to demand, to ask you, that all of us stop - they must be checked - this sad picture of the five, six and seven years of waiting for the naturalisation of people who are now part of the Greek society. Last time that took place in 2014...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u53	But close it, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u54	The existence of these networks that lead these people to think very seriously if they will knock on the door of a law firm, where suddenly their file from the depth of decentralised administration comes to the surface and the process is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u55	Good. First of all, I would like to say that the services - so that you, Mr Giannoulis, and all the colleagues - are aware of this - do not do the same with their own assessment. It is in agreement with the availability of the Ministers and the State Secretarys.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u56	I was joking, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u57	Because I said that you were "exported" - the word - the services, because that's the truth, isn't it? - your Bureau has paid you compensation - also in introductory forms - for over four times as much time as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u59	Before I give the floor to the Secretary-General, I would like to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, ten five students and students and a trainer from the 10th Agaleo Municipal School. Have a good year, and welcome to the House, guys. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr Levanie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. And my wish for the new year. I think we've spent one of the most difficult decades of modern history in the country. We hope that the next decade will be better and will lead us to cover the lost territory of recent years in every area. I now come to the essence of the question. I have the opportunity to say a few things about the infamous process of giving citizenship. The first thing I have to say, starting from the last thing you said - we had spoken in the last few days, you have also made a reference to a committee of Parliament on a similar subject - is that what I did, in consultation with the Minister, is that we immediately addressed the Single Transparency Authority and has been inspected by the Public Administration Inspectors at the Ministry's Office in Central Macedonia in order to reach a conclusion. I find it incomprehensible that there should be any circuits which play with the pain and the need of citizens, people, exploit and demand - within or outside of the import - 'fast' to do a job. I can also invoke the testimony of President Kaklamani as Mayor of Athens and President of the CEDEFOP that it was a very difficult issue to manage the applications of third-country nationals who wish to take Greek citizenship. And for his days as mayor he had to go to work contracts to cover the terriblely large number of applications there. The image was really depressing. And in the next few years it has deteriorated because of the cutback in contracts, it has become much more difficult to serve when the municipalities had the power to do so. The process of naturalisation is a complex process. And it has become complex for obvious reasons, first of all for reasons of security that must exist in the whole process and, secondly, because of the traditional Greek bureaucracy that we love to hate. And how does that work? Calling for supporting documents that could be automatically drawn mainly in cooperation with the Greek Police, calling for procedures, without any rules for the definition of the interviews of people who want to be naturalised and do not have clear procedures. There is a general problem which in some cases has also led to an excessive period of examination of applications. What we care about is for the applications to be examined and for the administration to be decided, the Greek state, if the "alpha" has the right to take the Greek nationality or if the "beam" does not have it. What we want is for this to be accelerated. You know - and I believe it firmly - that corruption is hidden in bureaucracy. If it were a clear procedure, I think there would be no need for any lawyer to help promote applications. I don't think it would have been necessary to do that. In my dentistry, I will also give you some figures on what has been assigned as the number of citizenship, so that one issue can be resolved there too. What I can say - and I will go back to dentistry - is that with 'CLISTEN' there has been a major change in the structure of the service. The services before the "CLITHENI" were in the decentralised administrations of the state. The political leadership of the Ministry of Interior - I think Mr Skourletis at the time - considered it more appropriate to become regional agencies of the Ministry of Interior than to belong to decentralised agencies. This has also caused a delay in the already burdened procedure because it has had to adapt the information system that is running and the new procedure has to be incorporated into it. What I can say is that, as a government, we are showing interest, if you want, that we have to resolve the issue and put it right - it is something that is above parties and has a human character - that the Special Secretariat of citizenship has become a General Secretariat of citizenship, showing the will to upgrade the issue to a political dimension. We are working very closely with the Ministry's services and with the regional authorities, but above all with the Home Ministry's Central Office, to change and streamline procedures so that they can accelerate. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u61	Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u62	However, Minister, you are quite right that it is not a 'white table' assumption of the performance of Greek citizenship, but we must leave this Chamber at least having agreed on some simple things, that is, it cannot have escaped from the attention of all of us that Law 4604/2019, which is the last legislative intervention, provided for and proposed changes, such as the replacement of the interview. I can, if you like, for hours to bring you cases of comic-tragic incidents that have taken place by the Committees of Politics on the subject of these interviews, because there was no 'tank', some rule, some booze, something specific. Everyone did what he wanted or judged at that time. All the modern states in Europe have solved the issue with a list of thirty questions, from which applicants are required to answer at least twenty, but there is also a number of other improvements and modern methods. These are things contained in the legislative framework that this country has. Some ministerial decisions are expected on the basis of this legislative framework, which is the responsibility of your government, since the elections could not be completed by the previous government. But there are some challenging cases too. For example, for a Greek counterpart from the Northern Continent, as long as he has the status of applicant, his wife also obtains the residence permit as a relative. Once citizenship is attributed to him, his wife becomes a foreigner automatically. Schizophrenic, without foreseeing for these couples at least a different prediction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u63	Do you mean that there was a joint application and when one was made, the other loses the right or there were two applications?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u64	Two applications.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u65	And why is he losing the right then, since there's a second application?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u66	There was automatically a joint request from two people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u67	So, one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u68	The relative Northcontinent acquires Greek citizenship and automatically his wife, who is not a relative, becomes foreigner now and goes to another process with a waiting period of six and seven years. A second issue is with the rapporteurs. The rapporteurs in the relevant services, which you described, have packed and homogenised dossiers and homogenous and foreigners, which by their very nature have different features even in the process. I want to close by saying that it is not just how it is. To how there are ways. The question is when and whether we want it. I do not hide from you that at the back of the minds of many these people also have another attractive quality, of voters, of naturalisation and of citizenship and of the police identity make them voters. Now, if at the back of the mind some people have a paradoxical process of who will be best expressed in this, I think it would be socially and politically unacceptable. What I would like to ask you is, if we can give these people, because they deserve it, a time horizon, a roadmap on when and how this inhuman suffering will end, especially in young children, Minister. Because you know - I will say this again - within the three categories there is also the category of young people who, according to the adequacy of education, are very sensitive tanks and teams. I do not expect the same sensitivity from Mr Brutsi - and I have said it why - but from the Ministry of the Interior and from you personally this sensitivity I expect and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u69	Mr Lebanese, however, I can assure you that, if there is any hope for the bucket to be unfolded, he has a capacity to do so. Push him. It'll do him good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u70	It has been proved, Mr President, that's what we're telling him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. I'd say there's a timeline and we'll bring in very soon. Starting from the fact that, in the coming days, a bill comes from the Ministry of Interior, which has a number of provisions relating to public administration and also includes a piece of modernisation of citizenship procedures and, by the way, we will also proceed with the establishment of a section of homosexuals, which was, at some point, abolished at some point, in the organization of the Ministry of Interior. But it will come back again, precisely because you said that they have different features and different procedures, so that the procedure would be clear. Because I am very much indebted to any link between citizenship and election, I think that the laws are laws, since there are laws and the House has decided - the government may disagree with SYRIZA on criteria in some things, but once there are laws, these must be respected and respected in particular to ensure transparency. In order to have a picture of what had happened in recent years, because they had heard at times and something outrageous about millions of naturalizations that were supposed to be happening, I will tell you: In 2013-2014 there were twenty-one thousand eight hundred twenty-nine the total of the naturalizations of all categories, fourteen thousand in 2015, thirty-three thousand in 2016, thirty-four thousand in 2017, twenty-eight thousand in 2018. The delay is mainly due to the change of way. What is interesting is that after 2015 the number of children who take citizenship has increased once they complete compulsory education. It was the known story with the unconstitutionality of Law.3838 brought by Mr. Raguss to the House, which considered it unconstitutional the provision of citizenship by the birth of children of legal immigrants. The amendment that came from the government of the period 2012-2014 was created and then the change made by the SYRIZA government was made. This led to a number of about twenty - twenty - five thousand children a year, which are naturalized in this way. So the number and the rate - if you like - does not differ much from year to year. What happens is that some charges are falling, some are increasing. I will put this before the Minutes for information and information. It's posted data on the interior ministry's website, so anyone can see the real numbers the way they are. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the whole process is concerned, I will tell you an unreasonable thing. The process from the time you take citizenship has become even more difficult until the whole process of naturalisation is over, especially for men candidates, with the delay in the Arena Register. We are in 2020, and we are working, especially in this part, with the volumes of books we have in mind, where we wrote in a book the whole population of the city and in the other only men, no one escapes us and no man goes in any way. Obviously, at the time when there are databases, which exist in the Civil Registry and which are all available information, there is a great deal of talk - and I think we will soon end - with the Ministry of National Defence, if the Arena Register is abolished now, because it has no practical meaning, to leave yet another bureaucratic obstacle to the whole process and the officials involved in this process of registration in the Arena Register may be able to strengthen the services of naturalisation. Also, there's another charge. There are the people who are talking about and there is a fourth category - particularly in the period that is currently in place - that is very important for investors who want to come to Greece and who are willing to make available a respectable amount of investment. They, too, often have a corresponding time to take the so-called Golden Visa, which makes things difficult. We are not talking about naturalisation, we are talking about visa, but this is an indicative point that this whole process is both difficult and needs immediate modernisation. What we are going to do is adapt the computer systems as well, ask for all the supporting documents, in particular with the Greek Police and criminal records, any conditions laid down by the law, and what we can verify and derive electronically, so that there can be no human hand. And that's very important. When we draw information electronically, we automatically have as much transparency as possible, because there can be no intervention over there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u72	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-09-S1-commons.u73	With the agreement of the House at 11.15 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, 10 January 2020 at 10: 00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, (a) topical questions, and (b) discussion of the number 5/4/10-12-2019 topical question to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The lack of government policy is causing the rural world and increasing its displeasure".
