ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I'll make two announcements first: (a) Appointment of the State Secretary for Citizen Protection: "Mr. President, we have the honour to beg as you tell the House that by the 37/15-2020 presidential decree, published in the FEK 65/15-3-2020, Nikolaos Chardalis of Georgios was appointed in the place of the State Secretary for Citizen Protection". (b) The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: 'Modernisation of the institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions'. Although, for reasons which we all understand, we are very few, I would like to ask you to keep a minute's silence in memory of my colleague Philip Petsalnicou, former President of Parliament, and to inform you that there is a decision by the President that, in due course, when the epidemic's throat is overcome, there will be an honorary event in plenary, as is always the case, in memory of our colleague, Philip Petsalnicou. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] His memory is eternity. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Creation of a Donation Contract between the public institutions under the name “Alexander S. Onassis”, the public limited company called “ARIONA GREECE ANONYMINISTRATIVE AND CULTURAL EVENTS TECHNICAL ECONOMIC” and the Greek State". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 12 March 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting in the process of organised debate, uniform in principle and on articles. I think I have your agreement. Please before the speaker goes up to Stepma, you will bring the glass with the water, not when he is the speaker at Stepma. So first we start with the two rapporteurs, then the special speakers and then the parliamentary representatives and the Minister, of course. Mr Vassiliou, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, this is really a strange moment for me. I am a new Member of Parliament, and this is my first suggestion of the bill in plenary session of the Greek Parliament. This is an honorable process in the course of a politician - anyway I would feel the responsibility of the moment - but the context for our country, Europe, the world is unique. Our generation is being tested by dangers, which we poorly believed would never face, that we heard from our grandmothers and grandparents as experiences of another time. I would therefore like to express my confidence in the government and my support for all the decisions it has taken to tackle this unprecedented crisis and to ask all citizens to respect these decisions, to obey the orders and to show the necessary solidarity for which I know they are well aware. Forgive me, Mr President, for entering into the draft law under discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, it is about the ratification of a donation contract between the public-benefited institution called "Alexandros S. Onassis", the public limited company called "ARIONA GREECE ANTI-DOM OF CALLETECHNATIONAL AND CULTURAL EVENTS OF TECHNICAL ECONOMIC" and the Greek public. The contract signed on February 17th this year concerns the donation of the "Alexandros Onassis" Foundation of 800,000 euros for the study and implementation of projects under the Repositioning Greece initiative, which concerns upgrading and strengthening the country's image abroad. This is an action by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the Deputy Minister, Mr Frangoyannis, presented to us in committee, which aims to relocate Greece on the global map, the need that the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the New Democracy had already diagnosed in the election process. Our image remains vulnerable to pressures often unforeseen economic developments. As we now see with pandemic the consequences of the necessary measures taken and will be taken by the government in conjunction with the pandemic itself, they are expected to affect tourism, the dominant sector of our economy even more. I think we can all understand the importance of restoring our country's image internationally much more when this adventure is over. With regard to the content of the draft law under discussion, I would first like to stress that it is a ratification between the Contracting Parties and not an overall approval or evaluation of the Reposing Greece initiative. The two articles of the project concern the ratification and entry into force of the contract, including the full text of the contract, which includes, inter alia, the subject matter of the project, which is divided into four sub-projects which provide: the conduct of qualitative and quantitative surveys in Greece and abroad, the drafting of the strategy, the formulation of the central idea and the creative ideas, the design of directives to end-users, i.e. public bodies, the dissemination of the process to those entities and the promotion of the whole process. The sub-project costs have been budgeted by the State which is not charged at all and is committed to the use of the project to its operators. There is provision for a recommendation from the Project Committee, consisting of two members from the public and one member from the institution, thereby ensuring that the project is controlled by the public, which is also the absolute master, the lawmaker and the owner of the intellectual property project. As regards the timetable, the will is to start immediately and to be completed by the end of 2020. At the same time, a solution to the contract is foreseen if it is not ratified by 30 April 2020. Mr President, the restoration of the image and credibility of our country is a universal demand for society and especially for my generation and for the people who have been called upon to live and work here for many decades to follow. We will no doubt also survive this crisis. We should take care from now on of the next day. This is a generous donation from an institution with a long-term presence and experience in the cultural activities of the country, the credibility and know-how of the Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" are a guarantee for the result we request. Thank you and I invite you to vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u3	Well done for the brief. We shall proceed with the rapporteur-general from SYRIZA, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I too receive the dog, as I said in committee, from my colleague. It is my first suggestion to the plenary of this House and of course at a very difficult time for the entire Greek society. I want from the Step here of the House to say that "We stay Home" is a prerequisite for our collective survival and we must all follow it. At the same time, we look forward very hopefully to the men and women of the national health system who, by self-renunciation at these moments, give the fight in favour to bring society up. And we all need to think about what a serious, structured, essentially funded national health system means, how it is a shield for society as a whole, how the myths of neoliberalism break down for the competitiveness of private and public health systems. And I would also like to say that we, as SYRIZA, raised a public health system that was in collapse, left open issues to further improvement, there is a pillow of about 35 billion from which the current government can finance actions to combat the coronary, and in this way we are also aware of our policy towards society and our attitude toward the hottest, flaming and major issues of the place. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the ratification of a draft law relating - essentially a contract - between the Greek State of the Foundation 'Alexandros Onassis' and 'ARIONA GREECA'. I read in Article 1 of the plan: "The Repositioning Greece initiative concerns the preparation and implementation of a strategy to improve Greece's image worldwide. In particular, a specific joint acceptance strategy is planned to improve Greece’s image internationally with the systematic preparation of a contribution of persons of unknown prestige and participation of civil society.’ In contrast to this about a year ago the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, said that we are in no way opposed to these kinds of donations and aids of the Greek state, but there must be a structured project, there must be a constructed target to know where we are starting and where we are going and we do not see this in this draft law. I would also like to say that the country suffered this international bullying during the memorial period, the image of the country was crushed, and the image of its citizens and we are very well aware of the need to rebuild this image. This picture, in our view, has a three-dimensional context, is the worthy context, the aweless pillar of our history, is nature, the environment, our natural environment, which has an excellent uniqueness, and thirdly, the traditions of our people. This tripartite, therefore, must be emerged through the efforts we are going to make collectively and overall in order to restore the country's image on the international soil as far as possible and to move on the basis of these acknowledged values. Let us now address the issues of individual criticism. It therefore says the draft law under discussion that the design of the strategy includes a quantitative survey identifying the country's existing image and producing image indicators on the basis of which its position will be assessed. I have put it to the committee which will assess its position, there is a framework for countries to which we are addressing, there are benchmarks to which we shall be assigned? It is a very general view and we are really very sceptical about these general statements. Article 8 refers to events of superior violence without further specifying, even at the outset, what constitutes, in the opinion of the authors, a fact of superior violence, so that we have a basis and appreciate what is happening. Example of the context: Is the current situation a fact of superior violence? Can the operation and validity of this agreement be waived? It is an issue that we have to deal with. Finally, subproject 4(1) states that the countries with which the State will cooperate in implementing the programme will be selected. Again, the question arises: How will these countries be chosen? On what criteria will these countries be selected? They should not be included in the body, so that we too know what this is about and how this kind of case will go? I shall continue, Mr President, by saying this. By definition, we are not against any form of strengthening the image of the country and, in general, an increase in the country's special weight in international relations and in international reality. It is therefore acceptable that all tenders should be included in an overall strategic plan of such a nature as to help the country and that which the country can benefit from. Because let us not forget that all this is done on behalf of the country and must also be done for the benefit of the country. A much more specific institutional framework, with a targeting, content and, above all, a process, would help the National Representation to understand what we are discussing. We are therefore clearly in favour of such initiatives, moves that strengthen the country's position on the international ground, but, due to the particular shortcomings, weaknesses, ambiguities and problems presented by this sanction, as SYRIZA, we are voting'residents'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the time we are going through is extremely difficult. We do not need to say this, but we must point out that the economic hardship which we have experienced, both because of the crisis and because of the wrong policies that followed, is coming to an unprecedented situation with the coronary pandemic, which of course has health and safety dimensions for citizens, but also for society and the economy itself. The waters we are walking are unpapered, but we must walk responsibly, collectively, with cooling and self-discipline. Individual responsibility, to stress it once again, is in this case social responsibility and social solidarity and we must achieve the best possible result. At the same time, however, we must not forget that the country is under pressure with the refugee - migration in an outburst and, above all, with Turkish aggression in Evros and the Aegean at its peak and with the scenarios advanced for a next upgraded hit. We note that there is a need to strengthen the system of surveillance of maritime borders, which, although it has improved in relation to its policy of 'the sea has no borders', but, as it proved yesterday, through the passage from all over the Aegean to commercial slavery, I would say, with immigrants who have finally disembarked Kea, there are serious gaps. The timing and developments make our society and our economy vulnerable, and we do not know, but we can imagine the huge impacts in all sectors, from tourism and services to production and trade, the income of workers and the level of living, which will obviously have an impact. In this context we are debating today the ratification of the Onassis Foundation donation contract to the Greek public and from the outset I would like to emphasise once again that the institutions' bids are welcome, but do not substitute the state's obligation to ensure access for all citizens to quality services and of course it must not be left to the charity of the institutions. It is undeniable that the public health established by PASOK and created on the basis of this National Health System, which was created and operated for our citizens over 50 health centres, sixty prefectures and seven university hospitals, is a huge infrastructure that needs to be exploited. For us, the National Health System is a key pillar of the state and today we have to put forward the regeneration of the ESS, with its further staffing, modernising and supplementing the infrastructure, as well as upgrading it with modern technology equipment. The enthusiasm of the ESS, which has been struck by the crisis, as well as the policies followed, is currently making superhuman and friendly efforts. Apart from our applause, it must in practice be rewarded and payroll and insurance for its critical and dangerous work. But that is not the time. It's for post-accounting. There is now a need for decisions without oligopoly and they are taken to a significant extent. I would like here to list the main positions of the Change Movement, which were formulated between others by our President and during yesterday's communication with the Prime Minister. These proposals are being put forward to help deal with this situation in the best way, so that the effects are less. We support the country's effort, and most of it must also be pointed out, all the political forces in one way or another contribute to it, and that is a step forward for our country. Because we must remember that a similar crisis in 2009 was not tackled by all of us in the same way. Some were trying with the mistakes, the omissions and all we could talk about and some were opposite, against this attempt that the country made to deal with. We have to say it. Today there are different views on the problem. One, for example, is expressed by a large state collectively, England, but here the choice made by the state, after the official and serious additions, is one and is supported by all political forces. That is what I believe will have the best results, contrary to what has happened in the past. The burden, as I said before, raises the public health system, which, despite the problems, can withstand. The private sector is extinct, and because the debate in the previous period has had such a feature, whether or not it needs to be, it needs to be within the public system active and on the basis of the general guidelines of the state. That is why today there must also be decisions to make use of the private sector in the context of the wider public health system. Immediate measures, administrative and financial, are needed. Let me say that they need to open as many intensive care units as possible. The immediate intake announced and progressed in the past few days is not enough for this. He needs more human resources. We need to see whether - as should - there will be a hospital in each region, which will be exclusively for the treatment of the coronary. To multiply the test points, to integrate them into the single design - as I said before - and the private centres, the private sector, in all legal ways, and, of course, in the same way as the State's compensation, on the basis of the fixed tariffs. To provide hospitals with all necessary means to protect workers in health in a timely manner. Where that hasn't happened yet, go ahead. To tackle this phenomenon of scourge in the market, which is not enough by a ministerial decision, because some people are trying, as in every crisis, to speculate and to smuggle against society illegally and at the expense of society. Special attention should be paid to the Aegean islands which are overloaded, which are locked up immigrants - refugees and are suffocating. The Greek economy and the businesses, the workers who have already started and experienced these consequences, need measures that will escape the strayed and what the European Union seems to decide or which goes ahead with the suspension of provisions of the Stability Pact for a year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Greece does not forget that it presents serious problems, anaemic growth, revenue shortfall and the figures in the first period of 2020 confirm this. It has much greater needs than the central European countries, from Germany or France. We are therefore obliged to take additional measures and to have additional support or freedom of movement from the European Union. We must demand that the European Union pay a much greater sum than 37 billion. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the work he has done in the Committee on Budgets. Of course, State aid which is not considered to be a State grant to both health and workers and not just businesses, but as a whole. To reduce, as I have said, the targets and the next few years. Of course they will require and there must be a radical change in the state budget, to strengthen both the Public Investment Programme and the funds for the National Health System. Of course, it is necessary to support the companies that close by decision of the state...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kegeroglu, please, we have to be self-disciplined and we in the Chamber. You have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u8	As far as workers are concerned, they are effectively made available. A serious issue, which should have been announced, is the suspension of auctions and seizures and the extension of the deadline on 30 April at least until the end of the year. We cannot continue to ask for this and for a committee not to be set up, with a minimum of consultation, under the responsibility of the New Democracy. Preparing specific measures to support tourism and, of course, enabling banks to have the liquidity needed by the restart in the next few days for the economy in the coming period. I close with the clear position for the bill because in time some very rich Greeks, with a sense of altruism and supply, gave part of their property or large sums of money to serve beneficial purposes and help our country in difficult times. The supply of these people must also be an example of inspiration for the present wealthies, especially at a time when the country needs people who can offer the common good. Any donation can help our country is important and welcome, as I said from the outset, wherever it comes, and I wish there were similar initiatives, gestures. The state must incorporate them into an overall policy which, of course, will benefit society as a whole. In this context, we now come to vote for the ratification of a donation contract between the Greek State, the Foundation "Onassis" and the Foundation's representative company in Greece, under the name "ARIONA GREECE CALLING AND CULTURAL EVENTS OF TECHNICAL ECONOMIC", with which the Foundation "Onassis" will finance a specific project within the framework of the government initiative to upgrade and strengthen the country's international image, as already announced. The contract was signed in February 2020 and comes to Parliament very soon. So we must quickly take advantage of any initiatives and we are positive, with the proposals and the points we have made during the debate on this issue in the relevant Commission, in order to make the best use of this donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u9	The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr Antonis Mylonakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to convey to everyone the support of the entire Greek Parliamentary Group to those who are currently being tested by the coronary, an epidemic which has resulted in a pandemic. "We live at home" is certainly our motto and we are trying to get through it through the media and the Internet. We look after ourselves, we take care of our fellow humans. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to say about the donation of the Onassis Foundation, I should like to say that I was really surprised that this government accepted this donation. He saved the pretexts with SYRIZA, because there is a hug here, Government - Change movement and SYRIZA. It is a donation that no one understands and I would ask my good friend, Mr Kegeroglu, to tell us how he voted "yes", because in committee others were telling us, not you, Mr Kegeroglu, the previous special speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u11	Contemptuously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Loverdo, I know what I'm saying because I was there. In his honor, the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, I believe he understood what I meant. So did Mrs Sakorafa from Mera25 and the JRC. I said: 'How can you bring, Minister, to the House one of the 17-2-2020 conventions free of charge, between the Government and the Onassis Foundation, which has its seat in Liechtenstein, to tax havens?'. It's not bad to bring a contract to ratify it. It is bad not to know what there is, because this 800,000-euro contract is going on. Why did a malicious person - away from me, I told the committee, and I did not say anything different - could he say that as this convention is written, with this stress of the Onassis Foundation, he wanted to be constantly projected and advertised, why did he not give the media 800,000 to advertise it? And what will the Onassis Foundation do to strengthen and upgrade the country's image abroad? He doesn't tell us how. Is it gonna be with books, plays? It will be done through a subsidiary of ARIONA HELLAS, which has certain uses, namely cultural and data, but also technically, is a technical construction. And if you see the balance sheets, all the money, the revenues are from rentals, from constructions, from them. So, then, we are all over the donations to go in favour of the country and to the Greek people. We have made that clear. To know, however, these donations go exactly where they are. I made you the first time, we'll talk about where, according to the Greek Solution at this time and in this difficult time, we're going through this money, if we want the Onassis Foundation to say that it did a donation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say two things before I come to the convention, about the problem that is currently happening throughout the world, this pandemic, this plague. We had said two months ago, through the mouth of the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, from this step, when he started in China, check at airports, ports, CBEL. It hadn't happened. People were going to airports without any control. That's what all the parties said. The government didn't do it. He's late. We had said from the beginning, when the virus in Greece begins, watch out for the shameful gain. There's nothing happened about the horrific gain. We've reached a mask sold 10 minutes to sell 10 euros. There's advertising here at a TV station. And I'm saying now you know why? Because sometimes injustices must also be mentioned and stopped. After 5.5% of the Greek Solution in the last "PULSE" poll in "SKAI", the president of Kyriakos Velopoulos made an antiseptic company and took it and advertised it. You all know very well how we advertise on TV. The TV is fast advertising. So, then, this product has become the reason for the 'rats' - not all of them, the 'rats', know who they are - of the media to destroy supposedly and send the prosecutor the President of Greek Solution and destroy the Greek Solution, which is not destroyed. There is no ceiling for the Greek Solution for the moment. But we'll see about that. Today you see that there are dozens of ads in newspapers that they found the prostate of the coronary. On channels six - says - masks plus a bottle of antiseptic 100 grams at 14 euros. Isn't that right, Mrs. Rapti?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u14	And three euros a replacement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u15	Yes, replacement. I mean more. It's 14 euros plus 10 euros transport. It's 24 euros. Nobody's dealing with this thing. It was what happened. It has been explained that no one now has anything to say about the issue that has been created. We have Constantine of ERIC. I have told you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and I say this to the Minister for Civil Protection, that there will be a problem. Mytilini has become a course. And the police were following the course. Hundreds of illegal immigrants were protesting and no one spoke. On Sunday, in Vrillessia, the organs came to play for poor illegal immigrants. Nobody spoke. The license didn't exist. The mayor got her back. But no police and prosecutor went. There's nothing about it. Because I have to run it, what we say from the outset and say it again is not illegal immigrants in mainland Greece. And what are you doing? You're committing a double crime. The new ones that come you move them inside and put them in structures. Those who come bring them to mainland Greece. And you know, Moria got a fire the other day. Why did Moria get on fire, you know? Our information is that they're going to burn Moria in the end. Because those who have been there for two years say that if there's no Moria, they'll take us home too. That's what you're doing. Instead of taking them to uninhabited islands and then, in two or three months' time, taking them to their countries, which we have made the proposals so long, you have done nothing. Now you remembered going to put a wall on Evros with those concrete stones with the wire over it, just like we suggested. We are therefore calling for the protection and financial measures already in place, which will also be developed by the President in a moment, who will be speaking in plenary. As far as the bill is concerned, we have more to talk about, but I can't make it. In any case, this convention, in our view, must not be voted on by anyone. Well done to SYRIZA and Mr. Voutsi, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, for taking it back. Because your rapporteur in his first speech was positive. I've just finished my speech, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u16	It was a boarding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u17	I told you what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Mylonakis, cut off the dialectic conversation. I show tolerance with complete violation of the Rules of Procedure. Close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u19	I'll be done. This contract must not pass. We don't know what contract it is. The project is not mentioned. So we are proposing here and now, with the 800 grand, Minister, if the Onassis Foundation wants, that we should all be able to get a ship from the coast of Evros, or a ship from the coast - it was broken the other day - an unspeakable good one, or get ambulances or give for those who are struggling at Evros on and on the islands a help in logistics. Our view is contrary and we are not voting for this Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u21	Let's get this over with. Sit down. Do not think that I have no idea from some of my colleagues who say on TVs about self-discipline in the people and here in the Chamber we are the ones who are taking it down. But now is not the time for contagion. It's special sessions. That's why I'm doing what I don't understand. Mrs Sophia Sakova, a special buyer from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I will be brief because of the excellent occasion, which I very briefly hope we will overcome as a country and, if you like, enter again at our normal pace. Ladies and gentlemen, in committee, as far as the bill is concerned, I was very detailed and I think I do not need to repeat the same things here today. I would just like to say that in these difficult times for the country where its capacities have shrinked, it is for the first time that we must appreciate and salute donations from institutions and private bodies that contribute to the promotion of the public and social interest. That is why, at the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs on Wednesday on the ratification of this convention, a great many questions have been raised which, unfortunately, most of them remain unanswered. The Minister said in this regard that we could talk for a very long time about every aspect of this issue and what they are doing. That is true and proved in committee. In my view, it is not a matter of speaking for a long time, however. After all, the eloquence of many of our colleagues in this area is, I admit, admirable. It is important here with what we say to answer questions and make a creative contribution to dialogue. So we leave behind what was said in the 'Ecali Club' committee, which had been raised as a matter, because, if I am not mistaken, it was the only question that most of our colleagues have asked, with the exception of New Democracy. All the groups have pointed out in the texts we have received vaguely in the general and ambiguity of the particular issues, which are also accompanied by, and will allow me to say, splendid expressions. A great deal of questions have been raised about the targeting of the project - many of them have not even been raised - such as whether formal procedures are followed when a government chooses to design and implement a programme. I would remind you of the principle which was strongly supported by lawyers who knew how to protect the principles of the constitution. Typicality - it says - is the twin sister of freedom, because - I will supplement - there is no margin for arbitraryity. With regard to the setting-up and composition of the strategic planning advisory group, I would like to clarify the following: Who also assumes responsibility for this design? Is the Prime Minister himself? Is he the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs? He didn't answer. If this programme were to be formally formed, and the number of members of the group would be clear and who is responsible. In addition, we could learn the criteria for the composition of this group and who is proposing its members. However, there are no such acts in the text. First of all, we think that this 12-member group is unprofitable. I would like to point out, however, that both of its members are Secretary-General and one is Director-General of the Secretary-General. One is a historian, a university professor. So, according to the professor, in the referendum we held, we voted 'no' in Europe. And that is a contradiction for this history, because - as it says - we are going to study and work precisely in the countries against which we voted 'no'. First of all, you will allow me to say that it is another Europe, another European Union in 2015, when the referendum that it is talking about. It is another issue that our young people are going to study and work, another issue for the governments of the Member States of the European Union of 2015, no doubt the then institutions and the policy that followed in the bankruptcy of Greece, but also Mr Juncker's proposal and another picture of the media in the face of the referendum. If he does mean what we have read, then that reading of thoughts and conflicts about the interpretation he gives to historical events takes a reasonable turn. However, the committee meeting stressed that the country's national effort to upgrade should be shared acceptance. On this point, I think we are all in agreement. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be fooled. Do you think that with this programme, as has been promoted, and in the composition of this advisory group, joint acceptance is actually achieved? According to the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, the State will have a loss of revenue from tax and other exemptions accompanying the donation. The Communist Party of Greece clearly stressed his opposition. The government said that this loss would be replaced by other sources of revenue. He also said that the cost of the project will be saved due to the donation. But if there was no donation, there wouldn't be any work. The project takes place in institutional and legal terms at the same time as donation. It didn't exist before. The government assures us that expenditure has been budgeted. We also know that the financial obligation of the institution cannot be adjusted or increased. If, however, unforeseen costs arise in the course of the project, then does the State budget need to be involved? And that view has a realistic basis. It has been mentioned by a colleague - and I think it should be taken seriously - that EUR 800,000 to become the digital platform will not work. Also, since the cost has been reduced, why has there been no clarification of the questions I raised both by myself and by other colleagues in the committee? And I mean the justification for expenditure in sub-projects 2, 3 and 4, since sub-project 1 covers fees and equipment. However, the rest of the questions, as I say - for example - were not answered for the staff. You spoke of research in fifteen or twenty countries. In which countries and how did these investigations take place? Phones? We have heard that research on secondary sources has been carried out. What are the results so far? We all understand that, with this project to show the image of the Greek state, a means is offered to advertise the institution with a parallel tax exemption, while also having a dominant role in selecting the suppliers and contractors of the project. In conclusion, a contract is presented by the government for a programme with incomplete - not even elementary - preparation. And if it is intended to provide tax incentives for volunteering and sponsoring projects, incomplete planning should probably be worrying about serious entrepreneurs. You give them the wrong example, Mr. Undersecretary. You are also avoiding, Mr Secretary, when you are separating - as you have done in committee - the contract from the programme. The committee has made it clear: without donation there would be no programme, as was not the case before the convention. What has emerged in committee from all sides of the conflict and is being raised today in plenary is the failure to understand the basic parameters of the government's proposal. And it was pointed out there that this cannot be corrected. It was also described as an unprecedented phenomenon of parliamentary data, which is why it was also considered that the proposal for a law should be withdrawn, re-examined and otherwise introduced into this committee. With this proposal, Mr President, and Mr Secretary, we would consent. Otherwise, for the reasons I mentioned in detail here and in committee, we will be negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs Sacorafa. Ladies and gentlemen, here's how we proceed. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, has asked to speak. I would ask him to wait five minutes in the sense that from the circle of speakers only New Democracy has given a speaker, Mr Bogdano, who I call on the Step for five minutes. Mr Velopoulos will then take the floor and as soon as he completes, we will start in reverse with the parliamentary representatives and close with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u24	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u25	Before Mr. Velopoulos talks, I will give you the floor for a minute, Mr. Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u26	I do not understand why, Mr President. The Rules of Procedure say that when he asks for the floor, he speaks. So, why would Bogdan speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u27	I give it, Mr President. If this makes it easier for you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u28	You don't understand. I've been begging you for five minutes to close the speaker circle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u29	Anyway. I say it because Costas has done it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u30	No, Mr. Bogdanos did not ask me for the floor, Mr. Velopoulou. It was my idea - don't charge him - for practical reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u31	I got him in debt anyway!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u32	Here, Mr Bogdano, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to acknowledge from this step the important work done by doctors, nurses and administrative staff of health services, women and men who, from every point, give these days, conscientiously and devotion, the battle against the coronary. We're grateful! I would like to express my sympathy to our fellow citizens who have seen their lives in a few days' time to make it difficult for their jobs to be jeopardised, who have been temporarily forced to shut down their businesses. We are not forgetting them and with all our powers as a state, as a government, as a society, we will fight to heal the wounds of this new crisis! I want to express my complete understanding of our fellow citizens who are - and rightly - in these days closed up in their homes, in their families with young children, with old people, with patients. To those who have been infected with the virus and their relatives, I wish to wish good recovery quickly! Now is the time for responsibility and solidarity. We all have to follow the experts' orders. All of us have to show coolness, but also optimism, even for this moment to pass. We must get out louder than this, and I am sure that is exactly what we are going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the ratification of the donation contract between the public-benefited "ALEXANDROS PANELOS", the anonymous company "ARIONA HELLAS" and the Greek State within the framework of the "Repositioning Greece" programme aimed at upgrading and strengthening the international image of the country. This is an initiative which all the democratic forces would wish to assess away from ideological bumpers. We have heard, for example, that the word 'brand', especially linked to a country, has recently been deceived, namely, that Greece has not and should not have anything to do with this kind of marketing. But, friends, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek brand or, if you prefer, the public, international image of Greece is not only there, but it is also potentially one of the most powerful in the world. It was this picture of Hellenism that brought thousands of philhellenes to fight on the side of the rebellious Greeks in 1821. This picture has made a decisive contribution to the very liberation of the genus. And this picture - we have to boldly admit it - has made a decisive contribution to getting away from crises, deadlocks and tides which we have often dug out for ourselves. Anyone who claims that we do not need to look for evidence of how we are seen abroad or that we do not need to actively cultivate this image, highlighting our strengths that we will choose, probably lives in their own world. In particular, at a time when neighbouring Turkey, in the context of a wider strategy of tension, seeks to undermine the international image of our country by displaying slander lies - which, unfortunately, some of our compatriots are going not only to adopt but also to reproduce - the need is much more intense. So be clear. The management of the public image of Greece is the central pillar of our national policy, the main tool of the multi-faceted diplomacy that together with the decisive deterrent power are the two constant points of reference of our foreign policy. In this direction, therefore, the current government is happy to examine the declared will of each private initiative to participate in this effort. And the donation of 800 thousand euros from the Onassis Foundation, especially at this difficult time, allows us to take important steps towards achieving this objective, and especially in terms of illustrating the country's existing image, through a valid quantitative survey and the production of indicators, which will assess its position. Ladies and gentlemen, Satubriandos argued that the name "Greece" cannot be pronounced without emotion. For few countries, such words have been said for few nations around the planet. The responsible management of the public image of our country, the responsible management and the continuous enrichment of the inexhaustible tank of meaning of our genus is both a responsibility and a privilege. It is a debt to which we must join forces and multiply our power. In this effort the current government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis also proves with this initiative its will to serve this debt without idealism, based only on the interests of the country, the people and the country. I urge you to vote in favour of the bill under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Xanthopoulou has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u35	Just a minute, Mr President, I will need to. I would like to make it clear that the position in both committee and in plenary is uniform. We have, in other words, accepted in committee that there is, first of all, a good idea that there is a donation. It remains to be seen the individual parameters to come to an end and we have reserved for the plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u36	They're being held in practice anyway. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to start my speech on the bill. Okay, the ideas exhibitions are good but for the pan-Hellenic. It's not for the Greek Parliament. And I start because you're talking about strengthening the country. In Greek bills we mention the word'repositioning'. You know, in the Greek Parliament some people speak in foreign terms, that is, barbaric terms, and they want to play it here in very national patriots or, if you like, have an opinion on ancient Greece and the '21 revolution. What does Mrs Angelopoulos have to do with the revolution of 1821? To get a little serious and not to say things that do not apply logically. Well, it's a good thing to talk about, but sometimes it means proving it. They do not mention what the actions of this story are. The House will vote for something, but it doesn't know what. The government brings us here to vote on something, but we don't know what it is. We're talking about civil society. I didn't understand that. I know the society where the citizen is an active citizen and also a host, since we are talking about ancient Greece. It was like this in ancient Greece. But here, I have a question. Because he's the Minister of Foreign Affairs. And isn't the Minister of Culture, since it's for culture? Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs in charge? Will this institution pursue a foreign policy? That's a little weird. Of course, Article 9 makes it clear. There is a donation report from the Onassis Foundation throughout the Greek. In other words, the Onassis Foundation in Greece - as you say - will also be advertised underneath there will be the Onassis Foundation to advertise itself. What sponsorship is this when he wins from what he gives for free advertising? But not Greece. It is not the Foundation's obligation to report to Greece. Greece must accept the advertising of the late Onassis. Of course, Onassis had nothing to do with this foundation. Why Liechtenstein? Are you all right? You accept from the world's largest washing machine of dirty money - why do I know the region in Germany well, I grew up and we went, we passed France, Italy - money? You're about to get Escobar or El Chapo, because that's where he washed his money! "ARIONA" organizes gala. The cultural events, Mr. Minister, are your gala, where all the ministers go with Mrs. Angelopoulos, Mrs. Vardinoyannis and all of them and drink your drinks, go to the receptions. That's it! And he rents real estate, Real Estate. I don't understand why this obsession. And if you really want to get a sponsorship - I'm not against sponsorships, to God - but the Onassis Foundation could do what Averoff did. We took a blur, man - sorry for the faggot, and then we devastated the Turks in the Aegean! I don't understand, that means a national benefactor! Zappas - the Zappeion you are selling it now - was a national benefactor. These are national benefactors, they're real benefactors. No, I'm giving one to get 20. These are loan sharks. Not to mention the tax relief that SYRIZA gave them. I have the amendment here. SYRIZA's good, but if I'm not mistaken, the Onassis Foundation is excluded from the special property tax. You brought it, unfortunately. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So obsessed with the Admiral? So much love for the Nightmare Foundation! And former colleagues and friends of yours, fellow journalists from “SKAI” are working at the “North” Foundation today. They go and work there, they make public relationships and they make money. That's why we got all over the beach road, we brought it up 15 meters high to make Niarchus the pier and do it the way he likes it! That's the reality. You work for them, for Latsis, for the Greek, for the ELPEs. Big capital for Greece, Latsis. He left EUROBANK, the phase, took the money and would invest it in Greek. That's how I invest, ladies and gentlemen. At some point we should be, my child, a little consistent with logic. And if we want to restore our international image, let's give the 800 grand to get a ship for the Port. Let me say that the international deterrent picture is being upgraded with a port ship, we can get something! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] To give something for the children who are there in Evros, the policemen who do not have - do not fool ourselves - the dependencies and accessories they need to defend for us, for the benefit of the patron. But we said, baptize meat, fish. I told you about national benefactors, like Zappa, Averov. All of them were giving without waiting for them to take, though. Not only do they give here, they do. Now we're going to the major issue that's the coroner. Friends and friends, unfortunately, we see this very superficially. As an entrepreneur to say that things are very difficult on the market. The market is falling apart. Indeed, since last week our companies in Greece have had 57% precipitation in the tick. I'm telling you right now. We're not going out. We'll be forced to fire people. And I tell the government. It's not coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u38	And what can be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u39	I'll explain. We've got the measures. I'll tell the Prime Minister in a while when I'll talk to him. What can we do? Listen a little. They will not survive the insurance funds with their zero interest rates. But when the Commission gives you 37 billion for the European Union and Germany 500 billion meters, it seems one thing, Mr Loverdos. I'm telling you with great respect. There is no European solidarity. Don't invoke her in here. It's a fairy tale. Germany itself, for its own economy, gives EUR 500 billion for all of Europe EUR 37 billion. So we have to understand that we're alone. We were alone and we'd be alone. In the Netherlands, twenty-seven thousand companies are asking - listen! - to cover part of the company's wage costs. In Greece, the government doesn't even discuss it. He doesn't even think about it. She didn't take Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Koutsouba, us, Mr. Varoufakis, to discuss with each other what we should do. He doesn't want to. He wants teleconferencing from the Prime Minister because he can only forget something that someone else told him or he can be forgotten that others told him. All together, but suggestions in writing. They don't. I saw, Mr Loverdos, Minister of Agriculture - I will not say about supermarkets - saying that Greece has an adequacy in antiseptics, saying, of course, that there is a problem because we are importing and it is not able to quantify. But the great problem that the Greek Solution is shouting in the Greek economy is that whatever we produce in Greece, Mr. Loverdos, the primary material is imported. Whatever Greece can produce - and this glass will be produced by Greece - the material needs to be imported. We don't have ethalic alcohol, so we don't have the obvious? Christ and God bless you! Can we not produce it ourselves and expect imports, as the Minister says? So does the price of one. It's just things. That's what we don't understand. Of course, Mr President, let us thank - and I will need some more time, please - the doctors, the nurses, the police, the garbagemen who are out for us and collect our garbage, the firefighters, the civil servants who work for us all. To thank them, but with a 'thank you' and a 'bugs', you don't solve the problem. Subsidies paid! Are we going to give more to those who work longer today for all of us, the cops, the firemen, the garbagemen? As for a "thank you" to give them 200 euros a month above. Nobody's talking. No one tells them anything. Run, work with your honor, but the state washes its hands, as advertising says with Mr. Papadopoulos. So I'll tell you what we can do. These are measures imposed in other countries. Let's take the VAT off products yesterday to move the economic machine, Mr. Loverdos. He's not moving, he's not moving. If a product makes 10 euros and we pay it 12 or 30, let's take it to 10 to move the market to the end of the problem. Zero the VAT, make it zero, and I say it schematically, because some people wonder. I say it's about moving the market, supporting liquidity. How? Let me tell you. Deferred payment of taxes, deferral of VAT or payment of taxes. It's no different, it's got to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u40	They made up their minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u41	From I decide until I update the operation, which... Mr. Loverdo, can I tell you something? You know how to do this. We call it a firework and pull it back a week later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u42	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u43	Compensation for social security contributions to enterprises. Specific things, such as priority for businesses which have been closed by a government decision and in second year by the tourism industries, because it is not the tourism industry, I have said so a thousand times. In the second year and in the first year of the year, tourist businesses will be shut down because they have been shut down and people will be thrown away. We do not understand that there will be unemployed for the next two months, Mr Loverdos, if history continues. There will be at least two thousand other people with three hundred thousand unemployed. When I employ thousands of workers and cannot pay them by the end of the month, or I will fire them, or I will start making cuts. But I don't want to do that, there's no reason to do it. To help the state, here's the state. He had to shut down the Stock Exchange, let it fall apart. Yesterday they let it collapse. Shouldn't they turn it off from the first moment after they know what's coming? Worldwide they collapse stock exchanges and the government has no reflexes. He let it fall apart. Let's close the Gardens' office. The ODR, which is the Evros Trade Association, came out and said: 'Lock up the Gardens Customs'. I've been saying it for two and a half months and the government hasn't shut it down. Why? The Turks are closing it. It's going backwards. The tails are six miles. I want you to understand that this government listens to us many times, but it listens to us with a delay, and that disturbs me. Control of pharmacy costs, masks, gloves, antiseptics. There's trade. It's happening - and I'm telling you this sincerely - shameful gain. There's no control. Adonis comes out and makes statements to me. What am I supposed to do with the statement? Check in the pharmacy. Where are you selling this? The 15-euro mask? I'm not talking about the channels, that's where it happens. They put them with me without saying anything, and here they advertise today that they prevent the bug with a glove, which is for fun, or a mask. Also, the price of oil has collapsed worldwide but no one controls the stations or the bilist. The price of gasoline remains high, is 1.30 when the dollar in the barrel is 70% - 80% down. Normally the price should be 0,70 and 0,60. Why is it still so high? Also, control over food costs. We should see here a little, Mr Loverdos and gentlemen of the government, this: close the toll. Why pay tolls, guys? We have an emergency. Why do we have to pay tolls? The man is sick. He's raising a fever and he's leaving his village to go to the hospital and he's paying five tolls in a row. Christ and God bless you! Do we have an emergency, and do the pimps still have to take money? I don't get it. As for auctions: Suspension of auctions, payment of aid to financial patients. Of course, I could say other things, but because time is pressing, I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u44	Let me tell Mr. Mitsotakis something this afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u45	I will only say one: by a decision the Prime Minister yesterday closed the legal churches. It was his decision without even asking the Church of Greece. He asked, but he decided on his own, because neither did he decide. Are the illegal hundred and seventy mosques now operating in Athens going to close them today? It is a hundred and seventy mosques, according to reports from the "STAR" a few weeks ago. It's a hundred and seventy illegal mosques. They're going to shut it down? The ones who march? ADARTUSYA - whether by yacht or high - this Peter Constantine - what's his name? - who's a professional and financer, went and marched while marching and gathering are forbidden. They go the day before yesterday to Mytilini with manure and ballads and take a walk and no one talks, no one arrests anyone. If I go ten of you for a walk, because it's a meeting, they'll arrest us. Constantine and all these other unwashed ones - because they are unwashed ideologically, they are not washed by Niagaras either - no one arrests them. It's amazing what's going on. To close, Mr President, and I apologise for the abuse of time, to say this and I will insist on it: this story will give us a mind, especially in New Democracy. Audrey-liberalism collapsed, gentlemen, as the health system collapsed. Why? Why did you book hospitals, reduce doctors, let them go abroad, have them hunger-pays, booked tomographers, and did all this over the last 20 years. This fake ideology that devastates the world economy is crumbling like a paper tower. Be serious because your audible liberalism and the service of capital, but this collapse of ideology will be paid by my grandfather, my father, your father, my uncle, our child, ourselves. Make sure you don't take any steps and with fireworks you're working. When the firework stops running and the light leaves, the darkness comes. Get out of the darkness and see the light. The light is to listen to the Greek Solution, to the front.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u46	We are starting with the Parliamentary Representative from Mera25, Mrs Fotini Bakada. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, another ratification of a donation contract for the Alexander Onassis Foundation this time, which concerns the implementation of a programme on upgrading and strengthening the international image of our country, aimed at repositioning it as an international brand. The outside image of our country is something that concerns us all, although I am sure we have a different view of how this picture should be. If we look at recent statements by Prime Minister, we can see that, as he commented, until now, Greece's promotion has only been on its tourist side. We must show an overall picture of modern Greece, of a country of creation, of economic and cultural development with a distinct quality of life and respect for the environment. Indeed, we agree that there needs to be a redefinition of our country's image, which, if we look at it, has started trying to make several regions in Greece in recent years, wanting to highlight the particular elements of their country, not only for tourist reasons. It is also no coincidence that in recent years separate marketing sectors have been created that deal with branding and marketing sites. In order to make better use of site marketing, however, techniques are used and used, such as promoting the particular value of each area it adopts, presenting and managing its characteristics and services in such a way as to be able to disclose and make them attractive to potential visitors and investors, promoting the incentives that would be of interest to the region, as well as the planning of the promotion of these features. At the same time, branding aims to identify the distinctive elements and characteristics of a region in order to be able to emerge in a separate brand name. If a place - or a country in this case - manages to become known as brand name, then it will clearly be easier to develop a marketing strategy that aims at improving, based on its uniqueness, beauty, products and services. All these particular elements that our country, which Greece has, should be transformed into an integrated promotional strategy so that our country can highlight all aspects of its image. If we go back, we will see that the discussion about the creation and existence of the country's brand name began just before the 2004 Olympics, as Greece was always recognized and everyone knew Parthenon, our dishes, dishes, dishes, many say that it was never able to establish itself in international collective and anger as a separate brand name or at least, and to have done so, it has been partly done. On the other hand, other countries, such as Finland, have managed to establish themselves in a particular sector. Finland is known as one of the countries - the bases of technology and IT companies. The creation of a clearer and up to date profile would certainly help to read our country on the world market, as well as to develop a clear identity, contributing even to conflicting negative views and prejudices that have been brought against Greece in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, as a communicationer, I could speak about the'rebranding' and the'reposition' of our country and the elements that should include an integrated marketing strategy for many hours, but that is not our objective today. Nor is our disagreement based on the fact that we do not recognise the need to create a new holistic identity for our country. We disagree that, once again, such an obligation is left to private initiative and charity, as most of the public obligations now exist. We disagree with the establishment of a multitude of strategic advisory groups, as mentioned in the draft law, of a programme without any clear plans and no clear implementation process. We disagree on all the reasons our boy, Mrs Sakorafa, has made very clear today and on the committees of this House. In conclusion - because today is a very special day - I cannot stand up to the most fundamental issue facing us all these days, the horn pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, as a MERA25, of course, we support the measures taken and all those taken with a view to preventing the spread of the virus. Surely, there's still a lot more to do to get our health system and economy to bear. We have tabled clear and costly proposals and we are here to discuss whatever is necessary. They surely deserve congratulations not only to doctors, nursing staff, to all the hospital workers, but also to all those people who work in a supermarket, to other businesses, to pharmacies, ovens, to those stores that stay open from tomorrow and are there to help us. Doctors, nursing staff and all other people need practical support and not our applause. It is necessary for doctors and nurses to have adequate equipment to see new recruitments. Employees in the private sector see their wages as no longer a hunger wage. Doctors need to pay for unpaid on-calls in the last two months, see moves to strengthen the public health sector rather than privatization. Finally, what all workers in health need to see and all our fellow citizens are to set a good example first and not to go out to dinner and be photographed, while measures have been taken to limit the operation of catering areas. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will soon get out of this war with the fewest possible losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u48	Me too, my colleague. Mr. Villardo, you normally, as you know, have three minutes of speaking. However, as we come to the end, I will put you five minutes, but you will finish. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u49	Firstly, we were very impressed that, for a donation of just 800,000 euros for advertising purposes, a bill is tabled in plenary session. As a reminder, the Greek shipowners did not pay the total of the voluntary contribution amounting to EUR 420 million and received only EUR 85 million, as we tabled in the Minutes during the debate on the donation of the Niarchas Foundation, which concerned at least one serious sum. Finally, all the forms of the program refer to the Onassis Foundation and we are reasonably wondering whether this money will eventually be advertised by the Foundation or by Greece. On the basis, however, that for the information of the Greeks on the Prespecies Agreement, 500,000 euros were spent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, charging the 2019 stock, probably not enough to reach 800,000 euros for this project. In relation to the issues of topicality, which are much more important, I would like to say that the Greek economy is being raised from many different aspects: Turkish aggression, immigration and the coronary which threatens the two main pillars of our vulnerable, unfortunately economic model, tourism and shipping, plus the exports necessary for the development of the country. Among other things, the Stock Exchange did not collapse within two months, actually creating the question why the government did not close it, in order to avoid sales in a panic regime. In particular, as far as the coronary is concerned, it is likely that it will lead to a boom of supply, that is to say to a smaller production of goods, to difficulties in supplying them, to shortcomings in the impossibility of imports due to closed borders, etc., as we have already mentioned in our previous speech, in a crisis of supply that might be accompanied by a demand crisis and by a demand crisis, together with speculation, an increase in product prices. This, in combination with the recession that existed both in Germany, affecting the entire European Union, and in Greece in the fourth quarter of 2019, in the sense of the decline in growth rate to 1%, could, unfortunately, result in stagnation, in a situation where the recession would coexist with increasing inflation by dramatically shrinking the purchasing power of consumers. There is, of course, an extremely positive fact - not only negative ones but also positive ones - as regards shipping and inflation, which also supports airlines which have suffered a huge blow, and many of them will go bankrupt: the collapse of oil prices in the energy war between Russia, Saudi Arabia and the United States. If we assume now that the pandemic - for which Greece was not at all prepared, while its health system is hardened by the memoranda - will last for over two months, then the revenue from tourism in Greece will certainly be reduced, let alone in combination with Brexit, 'THOMAS COOK' and Italy, from which we welcome annually 1.7 million tourists. If this reduction does not exceed 10% - it will reasonably be much greater - our economy will be directly affected by about EUR 1.8 billion and indirectly by the same amount, thus a total of EUR 3.6 billion or 1,85% of GDP, resulting in lower revenues for the public sector of EUR 1 billion. If we add the consequences here of the closure of the companies imposed by the government - correctly, of course - knowing that the total loss of a week of work normally costs 2% of GDP, as well as all the other sectors of the economy that will be affected in a country where the vast majority of its companies are at the limit of survival, then the picture will be much more dramatic. However, it may be right to stay at home and close business, since the risk of the epidemic is not the same, but its exponential growth, but the consequences will be disastrous for the economy. And the economy depends on health, education, defence, security and everything else. They must therefore take immediate measures, while what they said would seek and ultimately failed the Minister for Finance at the Eurogroup is, in our view, inadequate. They are incomplete and wrong, in the sense that either expenditure is recorded or not will continue to exist, increasing our deficit and debt, which for a country with a public debt at 183% of its GDP today and with a red private debt completely out of control looks like a cortisone injection in a dying man, which is delaying fatal but makes it even more certain. As far as measures are concerned, there is, of course, nothing negative in adopting measures to compensate for supply-side disturbances, such as business subsidies, support for their liquidity, deferral of tax payments, temporary reduction of taxes, partial or total compensation for social security contributions, etc. But a first and at the same time much more effective metro is the reduction of VAT, mainly because every supply crisis ends sooner or later in a demand crisis, especially when it is accompanied by inflation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u50	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, now speaks. I would remind you that there was no special speaker, so I am legitimate - and I am entitled - to speak for six minutes instead of giving him eight - nine minutes. Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u51	There is a lot of it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u52	Okay, for the sake of courtesy I had to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u53	You're always kind. Well, Mr President, the JRC at the Conference of Presidents had expressed a specific view, which was, of course, rejected, that due to the exceptional situations arising from the pandemic, the operation of the House should be interrupted and that it should only be convened when there are emergencies relating to the issues that arise in dealing with the pandemic or the consequences it has for workers and the people's family. Such issues should concern the meeting and not any other kind of bills. We are not talking about today, which is a contract ratification, but at least tomorrow's or what is planned for the day after tomorrow is very important bills. I would remind the House tomorrow that it is for the shipping, which in essence supports the interests of the shipowners. The day after tomorrow, which is planned to enter the House, for the professional funds, is another bill that breaks the social character of insurance. Such important bills, which are related to workers and people's layers and have significant implications, cannot be discussed with fast track procedures. That is why we are reintroducing the proposal - we will put it back tomorrow - that these important bills cannot be discussed in such procedures. We insist on tomorrow's bill that his debate should be suspended. It must not, in other words, come with such a procedure. And we say that, because the plenary session is being used to bring the House to a 'washing machine', a 'washing machine' of serious responsibilities for the public health issues of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, when these parties brought the state of public health to the current level, below its limits, with closed infrastructure, with closed clinics, with enormous shortages in human capacity and also logistical infrastructure. It is in this respect that hypocrisy today that the representatives of these parties are talking about how much public health has been supported by their policies. It is a challenge, in the view of the JRC, that they do not dare to say even to make a trace of self-criticism. Because their policy is precisely the one that undermines public health, when they consider health to be an individual responsibility, for this policy of the European Union and not to be an overall, collective obligation of the state to provide it free of discrimination to all those who live in our country. These are the results, and that is what we are experiencing. I do not want to go into these matters any further. We have spoken before, we will talk at other times. As far as this ratification of an agreement is concerned, it says about upgrading our country's public image, upgrading its position on the international territory. Really, does this public image include the hundreds of thousands of people's homes living below the poverty line? Does it include the hundreds of thousands of households living in conditions of energy poverty? Does it include the millions of unemployed, the underemployed? Does it include the deaths of accidents at work and the working conditions in the workplace? Does this include our country's international image? No, of course not. Really, the upgrading of our country's international image will reverse the situation that people are experiencing? Will they benefit from anything from this international image of our country? No, of course not. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Why is this upgrading of our country's international image? But for international business. From this point of view, what are we coming to ratify now? A donation of 800,000 euros, which the Onassis Foundation makes with its company, to upgrade - says - our country's international image. And we must say to them and thank you and reward this attitude, when shipowners as a whole do not pay a penny for taxation, gaining billions - and in the circumstances of the crisis. All 800 grand will wash away not only the huge debts that they have and the enormous responsibilities they have for the living conditions of workers on their boats, but at the same time their image will be upgraded and they will be given free advertising through this process. And, of course, they will not only acquire free advertising for the good character they have as "employers", but at the same time, they will also increase their business and their profits. That's what it's about. In this respect, Mr President, the JRC is voting against the concrete ratification of the donation agreement between the Greek State and the Onassis Foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, our country is experiencing a double crisis. I am also going to refer to the coronary, which is the one side of the intense difficulty, of the crisis that our country is currently experiencing. Let me also say, for my part, that “We live at home” is the most valuable thing that can be told to the Greek people at this time by a political party. I want to know the attitude of the Church of Crete, which yesterday or yesterday in a decision he made, did what the Church of Greece should have done, but which yesterday was almost properly avoided by the state filled the gap. Public health is everything at the moment and we must all contribute to its protection, because what the nurses and doctors say "stay at your house, because the strength of our system" is, I think, the best thing to say. We therefore support any measure proposed by specialists, doctors, specialist doctors, contagious doctors and the government, i.e. the state, decides. I report complaints from bank employees, where several people, mostly elderly people, are on a daily basis, without any particular reason being given any information about their account. We must also take measures in this direction. The rational stand, ladies and gentlemen, is the only way to respond. We have the sad experience - and now - of having examples of unreasonable attitudes, which I would like to mention under the title alone: Conspiracy, that some have been worked out in laboratories and discovered a virus, with a view, etc.; secondly, the unrecognised attitude of the so-called so-called maniac that this is not happening; thirdly, the horror that has never been solved - nor now - and fourth and lastly - the idealist of rich people, who are. Ladies and gentlemen, the nonsense has neither a vaccine nor a vaccine can be discovered for it. We need to look closely at the next few days, weeks, not the announcement of the measures but their implementation with regard to insurance contributions, as far as taxes are concerned, with regard to the right measure for banks to have taken on those payments up to 31 December, but in the new year they cannot be paid. This measure that sounds right will be seen in practice, as will all the measures we will see in practice. Yesterday's Eurogroup's decision on flexibility in terms of the primary surpluses of Greece is reassuring. The second aspect of the crisis is heard in the name of Turkey. Turkey's defeat at our borders in Evros must not mean routine and does not mean routine for people - officers and soldiers - of the Army and the Security Bodies. Once again from this step in this House, I would like to congratulate you. But it is only worth congratulating you on some tendencies, for example, a MEP who listened to him yesterday or the day before, that we supposedly opposed this attempt to move peoples, threaten Greece asymmetrically, attempt against our country to implement or implement a hybrid threat, that we provoked the coronary, or that we defended ourselves through self-indicated bullies that took their weapons and went up. It's sad to hear them again. Also, a text of intellectuals a few days ago that was inside and signatures of well-known and very serious people, but I wonder how they agreed to sign a text that is raped even prejudicial to the decisions of the Court of Human Rights, in particular as regards the relevant insurance measures, was also 'in favour of' the decisions which Greece took. I consider, ladies and gentlemen, very seriously these moments, so that everyone can devote time, text, words, speech to the Greek people on the basis of ideas, to false considerations of reality. Closed up, I'd like to make a donation report. Undersecretary, political organisations in this Chamber and the Change Movement with Mr Frangidis expressed their reservations at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence. Mr. Kegeroglu, and I today say what Mr. Francis said, that is, yes to the donation. We underline the serious persons, the important persons involved in the committee to monitor the development of the donation, but I would like to ask you a reasonable question: You're not telling me what this program is like as you understand it? The 800,000 euros are donations. So, paraphrases of style "give this money to get something else" are not insanes that can be addressed to a government. It's a private donation. Even the government's revenue foreclosed is not a matter, since if there was no donation, there would be no such revenue. It is not appropriate to criticise such non-serious - in my opinion and in our opinion - views. However, I am very curious to see what the substance of the programme is. We should put Greece back where it fits after so many years of crisis. That's right. Greece, however, is relocated through the course of its economy, through its resistance to Turkey's effort, through what it does to deal with this coronary that seemed right. And, Mr. Karathanasopoulou, the National Health System is on hold. In fact, your well-known professor of medicine at the University of Patras, Mr. Charalambos Gogos, as he informs the citizens of the city and the patients and the non-patients, can assure you - if he has not already done so - that the system and Achaia are able to withstand. Although he took the first cases and there were too many of his problems, he has endured and streamlined the situation. It is therefore inappropriate for anyone to make such a criticism. But the criticism we are making - we are addressing you at the moment with regard to the programme - seems to me to be very sensible. Health can withstand Greece - we are not Italy, we are not Spain - and it is a good move for the country that has and dynamic to produce results from both borders. Our economy, as it moved at least since the end of the memorandum and then in the last quarter of 2019, is hopeful. The forecasts for 2020 were good. This story has come to us now to make it difficult and to make it very difficult for us. But Greece has given the signs of its writing. Also, what happened with Turkey, I say this for once in plenary, increases us. What's this program gonna do? I really wonder, and I wonder what the chosen members of the committee responsible will do. I cannot understand - indeed - what we lack and what the implementation of this programme will replace. As a donation we accept it. Why should we say no? But a programme which goes through this House and we say our agreement, more than we agree with colleagues and parties who have reservations, is entitled to ask you: What are you going to do with this programme that you would not do if you did not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. Mrs. Marilissa Xenonakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are surely experiencing unprecedented moments, moments when we must show absolute political responsibility, social responsibility and solidarity. The House - it is clear today, it is an unprecedented picture - quite rightly participates in this overall effort to support this chain of prevention and solidarity and to support public health and, of course, to enable the Greek society to pass this great test. Mr President, I take this opportunity to thank the employees of this House, who under these difficult circumstances are helping to keep the House open and to be able to make these minimum legislative procedures within the framework of course decided. It is clear that in this great trial human life is our first priority, and that is why measures are correct, we support them. Mr. Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Officer, in a conversation he had yesterday with Mr. Mitsotakis expressed this support, but of course he also made a number of proposals that we believe should further strengthen this effort both in terms of further aid, in addition to recognition and thanks, which we all wholeheartedly send to the medical, nursing and all staff of the National Health System, but also in terms of practical support, with the necessary recruitments that are currently pending. We are talking about the permanent four thousand recruitments, above all the long-term support and development of the National Health System and the social state. At the same time, we must support the economy, the workers, who are currently living a great deal of insecurity and will be very quickly affected by this whole process, as well as by small and medium-sized enterprises. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the coronary still does not, unfortunately, have the medicine - and we all hope it will be found quickly - but we know very well that the medicine for the economy is the change of policy. That is why it is a step forward that yesterday at the Eurogroup there was a different view under pressure from the pandemic and the great economic consistency that will have for the whole of Europe in terms of flexibility for the Stability Pact, with regard to funds and a fund, as has been said, for the support of both national health systems and work and businesses. But, of course, all this must be done, it must become a permanent economic differentiated view of another expansionist policy and, of course, it is very important, how and how our country will make use of these possibilities and how it will further extend them. For at a time when, Minister, we are living - and because you are dealing with foreign economic policy - the wider pressures and the European economy, which were already on the side of the recession, but also the Greek economy, pressures and very serious consequences, is important and now it seems - and now even now Mr Stavros and Mr Pets confessed to it under the pressure of events - that Greece is fortified with this 35 billion-billion cushion and with these new and great market pressures and we are seeing all the issues with the spreads and all the issues that are currently evolving, but also with the possibility of policy options, which must be specific policies. We therefore very clearly say what needs to be done. Clear support from the National Health System to recruitment and resources. Clear work support: You need to see the issue of redundancies again. The framework of work must be strengthened, there must be no consistency in terms of wages, salaries and licences, and the corresponding controls must be carried out. Clearly there must be support for the socially weak, and that is where you need to see it in terms of the possibility of an additional support. Clearly there must be support for businesses. There is also, of course, the tax issues, but you also need to see further support in order that jobs will not be lost, but that our economy and Greek society can actually stand together. The OAED should take much more of its potential for intervention and financial assistance, two crucial issues, Minister. It needs to be tackled at its roots by the shameful gain that we see grow. There have been cowardly measures in this direction and, indeed, there have been contradictions and statements at the outset, which did not fit in the freedom of the market and all of them. It is now a bit more than that. That's not good enough. We say that there must, at least, be discretion in matters directly related to the protection of the health and hygiene of the Greek people and of citizens. At the same time, we must now, something Italy has already done and there has already been a debate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute and I shall conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u58	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u59	With regard to the suspension of auctions and the extension of protection of first residence, the date is very close. Now, at last, the government must give an extension and see this issue again. Mr President, I would like to close with the draft law we are discussing today, saying, as our rapporteur has already said, that we are neither opposed to the concept of benevolence and sponsorship to the State, by clarifying, of course, that this does not in any way replace the responsibility of politics and policy on the part of the government and the state, nor are we, of course, opposed to the image of our country. However, we have strong reservations, and that is why we are going to'represent', first of all because we believe that the strategy of strengthening our country's image cannot be outside an overall national strategy of institutional, economic and social reconstruction of the country from our overall political and worthy view and also because, unfortunately, any clarifications we have so far received in terms of targeting, the framework, the process that will be implemented in this programme of sponsorship, we have not yet understood exactly how it will contribute and how it will be implemented. That is why we are also insisting on our position in the'represent' and of course we will also hear further clarifications. However, we believe that we are not convinced of the usefulness and effectiveness of this specific programme commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Zoe Raptis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the ratification of the donation contract between the public-benefited Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" and the Greek State comes at a critical moment in history, where the world is being thrown from the spread of the coronary, which is now developing as a pandemic. Despite the difficult circumstances in the National Health System after the ten-year crisis, the government reacted rapidly, organizedly and effectively. Tough decisions, such as the closure of schools, courts, shopping centres and public meeting rooms, were taken in time in connection with other Mediterranean states and fortunately, they kept our country among them with relatively low dispersion of the disease, with, to date, the rapid increase in cases requiring hospitalisation in the country's hospitals. But let's not be fooled. The difficulties are ahead of us, as the Prime Minister has said, because there is no doubt that we will have an increase in serious cases in the coming period and people will lose their lives. That is why we must arm ourselves with coolness and follow the experts' instructions. I also want from this Step forward to give courage and wish rapid recovery to all our fellow citizens who are hospitalized either in hospitals or at home hospitals. The main concern from day one for our Government was to limit, as I said before, to the minimum number of those who will need hospitality. For this reason, with a wide-ranging campaign, the famous 'We live in the house' campaign, the government underlined the need for our commitment, on the one hand, to our home self-restraint, but also to the tasks of individual hygiene, tasks which the EGE analysed in detail, with the emphasis on taking individual responsibility from each of us, since this commitment of individual responsibility is not just to become sicker ourselves, but to not become bodies and to disperse the disease to our side, child, parent, neighbor, friend, with possible dramatic consequences for all. At the same time, the government has taken care to ensure that the structures of the state, which, of course, are incarnationd by people, who have their responsibility. Indeed, the state worked much better than many expected, and at this point I would like to congratulate the head of the Ministry of Health, Mr Kiilia and Mr Kontozamanis, but also the President of the EGE for their flexibility and effectiveness. Above all, however, I would like, from this point of view, to congratulate doctors and nurses of all health structures in the country and, above all, with emphasis on reference hospitals for the courage and self-determination, with which they are dealing daily with all the incidents. This message of support was sent by the citizens to our nurses and doctors on Sunday evening, who came out of their homes and applauded the unrelenting work of nurses and doctors, giving courage to them to continue. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in his recent proclamation to the citizens of the country has announced a number of measures that the ministries are currently implementing. Inside this was the strengthening of the country's public health system to recruit two thousand healthcare professionals in hospitals, health centres and EKAB and have already hired nine hundred fifty doctors and nurses at the cost of EUR 70 million. It also strengthened with exceptional funding and other costs such as equipment in intensive care units, equipment for cleanliness, storage, transport and analysis of samples. The cost of all this will exceed EUR 200 million. Furthermore, it has announced measures which already apply to the protection of workers, mainly the flexible working hours we have in the House, teleworking and distance work. At the same time, however, he promised that the critical infrastructure and services would not remain in service. Furthermore, it has announced the measures already in place to ensure that workers with children are given a special leave, which the State finances, as well as measures to support those who work with skilled work in the event of the closure of the company in which they work. In this context, there was also support for small and larger enterprises in suspending the payment of tax and insurance liabilities, as well as the instalments for tax and insurance arrangements for their funds. Today, as we have learned, at the relevant invitation of the government, the banks have decided to support these enterprises, which are consistent, by suspending the payment of debts, loans - companies in the critical sector of tourism, focusing and retailing - by 30 September. Finally, for the support of students and students in all educational establishments in the country, distance learning was also available at the AEIs. This already works for the Third High School, but also in the next week's space, an effort will be made to implement it for the country's high school. Ladies and gentlemen, over the last two weeks the government has been faced with a twofold threat, the illegal invasion of refugees and immigrants, from its eastern borders and the rapid spread of the coronary. Both the first and the second, it faced them with bold decisions, rapid reactions and foresight in taking the necessary measures. At the same time, it has triggered and exploited the support of our European partners in the refugee and immigration question both at the level of direct financial support of EUR 700 million at the level of the necessary technical means and human resources, which is already at the border of our country and is working with our Armed Forces and our police. The same will seek to do to address the economic consequences of the coronary epidemic by calling for the reduction of primary surplus targets to strengthen our economy. Finally, it will make full use of all private donations to support our country. That's obvious. It has thus acted to deal with migration flows, accepting the donation of ten boats from the Greek Shipowners' Association to strengthen our maritime borders, so it has acted with the acceptance of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation's donation to build a state-of-the-art hospital in Komotini, so it is doing today with the acceptance of the sum of 800,000 euros from the "Alexandros Onassis" Foundation, in order to prepare the country's promotion under the Repositioning Greece programme. The project will be implemented through the "ARIONA" implementing body which is already running the "List and Arts Center" and we have all seen that this is done with excellent results. Its subject matter, as analysed by our rapporteur and will analyse it - I am sure - and the Minister, too, is the delivery of a series of projects and services related to the upgrading and strengthening of the international image of the country, while the public is not charged with the implementation of this project. In a country, ladies and gentlemen, such as Greece after the pandemic that has taken place, it will be more necessary than ever to upgrade and strengthen this international image for the diversity of support - including - of the many tourism sectors. Our world, ladies and gentlemen, will be another world, after the consequences of the pandemic have passed and our country. In this way, and with this donation, she will receive further support to achieve her financial recovery. I therefore believe that it is becoming absolutely imperative that we all vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. We will close with the speech of the Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. Konstantinos Frangoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law, which is being discussed today in plenary, under the very specific conditions experienced by our planet and with our country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seeks to ratify a donation contract between the Greek State of Alexandros Onassis Foundation and the company "ARIONA GREECA S.A.", which is a representative of the mutually beneficial Foundation "Alexandros Onassis" in Greece and operates the cultural centre of "Alexandros Onassis Foundation". I would remind you that this is the same anonymous company, which has given the donation for the children's transplant centre in the "Onceso". The subject of the donation is the implementation, supply and delivery of works and services, which are related exclusively to the implementation of the programme to upgrade and strengthen our country's international image entitled "Repositioning Greece". This title is a title that we have given to form the team and name the project and has nothing to do with reports from other unions, with the gala that are being made. We have nothing to do with it, I don't know anything about it, I haven't been to any gala and we don't care about anything other than any other union in this direction. The Repositioning Greece initiative concerns the preparation and implementation of a strategy to improve Greece's image worldwide. In particular, it provides for the printing of a specific joint acceptance strategy to improve Greece's image through systematic preparation, contribution of persons of unknown prestige and participation of civil society. In other words, through a digital platform, we will enable every citizen to express his opinion on the image that he has or would want to have for our country. The design of the strategy includes a quantitative survey identifying the country's existing image and producing image indicators, on the basis of which it will assess its position. SYRIZA's colleagues, as you have seen, "resuspended" I changed it and made it "production" after your comment to the committee when we had discussed it. The strategy is implemented in a uniform and multi-dimensional way, through economic diplomacy by identifying qualitative and quantitative objectives and diffusing critical strategic positions to enhance the image of the country to Ministries and bodies in order to design their actions. The subject matter of the donation is the sum of 800,000 euros. It goes without saying that the costs of these sub-projects have been budgeted by the State and are covered exclusively by the funds of the institution, without any involvement of public or European resources. The financial obligation of the institution shall be limited and exhausted to the payment of the amount in question, which shall not be subject to any adjustment or increase. The implementation of the project does not fall within the existing public procurement, studies and national benets and grants to the State, in view of the fact that the Greek State does not bear the costs of carrying out the project. In order to monitor the progress of the project, a decision of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, made up of three members, is planned by the Minister for Finance, the second member of the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs responsible for economic diplomacy and extroversion, and the third member of the Foundation for Alexander Onassis, who deals with individual issues of organisation and functioning of that Committee. Intellectual property rights - I stress this - which will arise from the work come to the public as an absolute master, legislator and holder of it. This contract also provides for specific tax and other exemptions from fees that are reasonable and are within the absolutely necessary measure in view of the net public benefit which the contract entails as it will cause a reduction in the Foreign Ministry's budget of EUR 800,000. At this point I would like to point out the Government's extremely important decision to give tax incentives for volunteering and sponsorship programmes. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, aiming at maximising the benefit of the citizen, gives the appropriate incentives to those who want to make donations for the public. I am referring to the recently adopted Article 22 of Law 4664/2020, which provides for exemption from VAT for supplies of goods and services, relating to donations, under a donation contract, concluded with a body governed by public or private law, established by a special law on the public interest or by other entities, supervised by these bodies. This donation falls under the above legislation, and that is why VAT is exempted. I also note that the applicable law is intended to be the Greek and any dispute will be resolved exclusively by the competent civil courts in Athens. You mentioned, Mr SYRIZA's colleagues, the issue of force majeure. This is a legal term, which exists in every contract and the truth is that even if it does not exist in the contract, it is foreseen anyway. Therefore, whether certain circumstances hamper the existence of force majeure is defined by the laws at Greek, European and international level. Ladies and gentlemen, the relocation of the image of Greece in the world and the strengthening of the extroversion of the Greek economy are essential conditions for greater growth and expansion of the production base. Only in this way will we be able to create new wealth and quality jobs that our society needs, and especially the new generation. With today's draft law we are taking a small but very substantial step in this direction. Under these special circumstances of today, I would like, Mr President, to express my sympathy to our fellow citizens, who are having a difficult time and suffer, because of the pandemic, to express my gratitude to the doctors, nurses and staff of the National Health System and, of course, to address with me the message we are all addressing: 'We are staying at home'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Loverdo, we're closed with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u67	One question, Mr President. I have the right under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u68	If the Minister wants to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u69	If the question is about me, I'm at your disposal, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u70	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u71	I asked you something very practical. And because you're a man and a market, I think you have a lot of power to answer from outside red tape.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u72	Did you ask what the program is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, what's he gonna do, that you can't do? To what will it help us relocate the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u74	I'd be happy to answer, Mr. Loverdos. First of all, what we have brought to Parliament is the ratification of the donation. We didn't bring the program itself. Of course, in the explanatory statement and the rest of the material, which is available to you, the programme in itself is also provided for. With great pleasure, if the president allows me, I can explain what this is all about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u75	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u76	As you quite rightly said, everything that we do creates the status of our country. Through the moves of economic diplomacy, our foreign policy, through the movements of volunteerism, through the moves of health issues, education, culture, art, sport every day, we make the image of what we really are. But somehow we must go out and tell the civil society of Greece and stimulate their self-confidence and feel good about what we are, as well as go out, in civil society in the world and explain what the modern Greek proposal is. The picture that the planet has for us is the image that comes from three main pillars. It is the image of our history, of our culture, of what we have been carrying with us for the last three or four thousand years. It has to do with philosophy, culture, ancient Greek history. The second pillar relates to the beauty of the place, to the natural landscape, to our kitchen, to our hospitality, to Greece, to the Greek summer. The third pillar relates to bureaucracy, to the crisis, to poverty, to the difficulty with which people are making it, and we want to change that. We want to go out and say what we really are. As England used the "Great" from Great Britain - let me be forgiven by Mr. Velopoulos, who would use a little English, because I would speak about countries outside Greece - and he said "sports is great, hostility is great, culture is great" and he created an image around her country, as Malaysia went out and said "true Asia", as Azerbaijan went out and said "take another look" in a difficult neighborhood of the world, as Germany went out and said "wars", because that is what it represents, as Israel and said "hi-tech", because it represents what it is or what it wants to be, so we have to go out and say who we are. We have to go out with one reason, with a picture and a sound to say the words, what it really represents Greece of 2030. I can't fix that. You can't fix it, Mr. Loverdo. We need special people. So we have created an advisory group, which in a systematic way will approach Greece's image, the one we are going to show the world, both for the Greeks and for the planet. This picture should therefore be used for drawing up a specific methodology. We must first of all ask what our picture is. There are secondary research, there are primary research, which we are going to do, there is the Civil Society, which has an opinion on what they think we are really and there are all the public bodies that we need to ask to understand what their needs are and what the problems - on the image level - are. All of this will result in a strategy, which with special people will be led to a concept and this concept - and again apologise for English - will be brought to a speech, to a sound and to an image. And since this goes through various levels, which will be exhausted at the level of the General Secretariat of the Government and the Prime Minister himself, then we will go back to the Civil Society, which told us what we have been told and which we are going to do again, in order to find a basis - validation - that what we have built is what really serves the needs of what we want to do. Only then will we have the media content, that is what we are really going to present. Therefore, this is not a digital platform, as was said earlier. This is not a advertising campaign. What we are going to do is create that reason, text, sound and image that each sector of government needs to do better, so that everyone together can compose the image of what we really are. Of course, it is very important, when this is completed, that an implementing manual should also be drawn up. So, as we go and ask, "What are your needs" and as if we're making something that we think meets your needs, we need to give you a manual application of how you implement what we said you're going to do in your own business. This is also included in the contract, which they have submitted. I hope I helped you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u78	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Mylonakis, it's not a press conference to have the Minister in Step and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u80	What he said is very right for a country such as Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, other countries that do not have any other problems. Very good, we should do that. At the moment, however, other problems are taking place. With the 800,000 we made a proposal, we can buy a port ship, we can get five to seven ambulances. These are problems facing society today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u81	You have said so, Mr Mylonakis, in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u82	Since we have the Minister here, he can answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u83	He can't tell you if we're taking a boat. Mr. Undersecretary, would you like to answer Mr. Mylonakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u84	What I mean to say is that I was instructed by the Prime Minister to do a specific job. It is set out in the Government's Press Sheet, in my responsibilities. Instead of asking for 800.00 or 700,000 or 900.00, or whatever is needed by the Greek State, from the Ministry's budget, we found a sponsorship from the Onassis Foundation and I ask the House to ratify this sponsorship. The institution - I can't speak for it - is doomed to its mutually beneficial actions. If you have any idea about another donation, I think that you should in another environment, under other circumstances, with or with another Foundation, talk about it, but the Onassis Foundation did not leave 800,000 on my table and said: despite it and do what you want. I put forward a specific proposal in a concrete way for specific actions, with concrete actions, which it has decided to grant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u85	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is adjourned: "Creation of a Donation Contract between the public institutions called "Alexander S. Onassis", the public limited company called "ARIONA GREECE ANONYMINAL CONTRACTING COLLECTIONS AND CULTURES OF TECHNICAL ECONOMIC" and the Greek State". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u86	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] After ELECTRONIC OBSERVATION)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u87	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u88	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Creation of a Donation Contract between the public institutions under the name "Alexandros S. Onassis", the public limited company called "ARIONA GREECE ANONYMATIC CONTRIBUTION OF COLLECTIONAL AND CULTURES OF TECHNICAL ECONOMIC" and the Greek State" was accepted in a single debate on the principle, articles and overall by a majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u90	The House has given the mandate requested. Before I solve the meeting, I, too, wish all Greeks courageously. I believe in the Greek, and I'm sure he'll win this battle. To tell the doctors, nurses, patients, firefighters, police officers, cleanliness officers, that we pray for them. Thank them through our hearts. Thank you very much, too. Holy Mary with you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-17-S1-commons.u91	With the agreement of the House at 12.33 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Wednesday, March 18, 2020, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, discussion and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Modernisation of an institutional framework for maritime cabotage and other provisions".
