ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] First of all, I would like to inform you that a request was made in a very kind manner by my colleague, Mr Apostle, Evia MP. Because this is the first meeting following the tragic events with the floods in Evia and the loss of eight people, and because we have done so for Mandra and for Matti, I would like to ask you - even though we are few - to keep a minute silence for the eight dead. I think there's no objection. [[All Members of Parliament stand up and observe one minute's silence]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the debate today's topical and urgent debate, let me make the following announcements: First of all, I have the honour to announce to the House, in accordance with Rule 143(3) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that on Monday, September 7, 2020, a debate will be held at 17.00, on the initiative of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Parliamentary Party of European Socialists, Mr Fotinis (Photo) Gennimata, at the level of parties leaders on the problems created by the outbreak of pandemic in public health, the economy, the workers and the start of the new school year. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics shall submit its reports to the Prosecutor's requests for permission to prosecute Members of Parliament. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Serbia on cooperation in tourism". Secondly, the Standing Committee on Educational Affairs submits its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to prevent the theft of illegal excavations and the illegal importation, export or transfer of property or property of cultural or cultural property and the promotion of their restoration’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement for the Development of Film Co-production between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Administration for Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television of the People’s Republic of China, and 3. ‘Preparation of the Film Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the four questions to be debated today. The first two will always be answered by the present Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Mavroudis Voridis. We begin with the first under number 998/31-8-2020 in the first cycle of the Evian MP for the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Aid for compensation and aid to farmers in central Euboea, affected by the recent floods’. Here you go, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. My region, along with the loss of our eight fellow people, experienced loss of life, manure drowned in mud. Today, of course, the debate will go to the rural area next day. Mr Voridis, during your visit to the area, with the communications you have made and the commitments you have made, you do not meet the needs of compensation and aid, although the rural activity in the affected area is literally declining. The first estimates showed that plant production has been completely destroyed over 50% of the cultivated land, that is, about three and a half thousand acres. More than a thousand beeswaxes have been lost in animal production and about a thousand ovine and caprine animals. All this was insured in the ELGA. You have to pay for the damages that you will give them to meet the needs and losses that exist. I have already been informed that the 800,000 euros you announced will go up to about 1.1 million. But again, with this increase, there is not even the need to lose vegetable crops. For the farmers above, however, there is another issue. I'd say it's too, very important because it's coming from a long time ago. Despite your commitments, you have not paid them the aid they are entitled to because of the negative effects which you have accepted and which exist in their area because of the horn pandemic. You have said this, especially for farmers and the reduction in the value of sheep and goatmeat and disposal, especially in the Easter period. You said about people on the popular market and you know that horticultural growers in the region are the sellers of Attica's popular markets. And, of course, the same problem exists for beekeepers, as you have really accepted. Of course, there is another problem, which relates to the current damage, which concerns those not covered. You have said that from the ELGA premium they will be covered by state aid, they are the well-known PSEA and they are equipment, fixed capital. You announced 600,000 euros, which do not meet the needs that exist. Let alone when these payouts - you know - take place after three, four years. Tell us at last, Mr Voridis, when the damage assessment procedures will be completed, so that the payments made directly by the ELGA will be carried out. What about what will happen after three, four years? There too, you must take the initiative, find a way to pre-financing these funds. The last question is when will finally end this suffering that you have really put on these farmers, waiting today or tomorrow for promises, extensions of payments for these aids, which are related to the coronary pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u5	Please, Mr. Apostle, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u6	I'll be done. Is it possible to get the European Commission's positive response from 24 July and so long cannot go ahead with these payments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. You've got more topics. The Minister will answer. Minister, you have the floor and you have a relative comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, thank you. I shall follow the swamp that I always follow in parliamentary scrutiny, i.e. replying to the question raised by the Member. I fully respect the right of Members to try to extend the scope of the debate by setting out other issues, but the time of the current questions does not help so that we can cover all of this. So, because I consider it very important to restore production rhythms to the primary sector in the affected areas, and that is the main issue raised by Mr Apostleos, I will be able to answer that. Furthermore, Mr Arachovitis' question comes next, which includes Mr Apostle's question, and I will therefore reply there to the other questions raised by Mr Apostle. So what has happened in Evia on the issues raised by my colleague? There have already been twenty - four announcements, two and twenty - seven statements of damage, from which it appears that the affected area is an area of three and a half thousand acres. The assessment procedure, Mr Apostleou, has been completed and therefore follows the procedure for drawing up findings, objections and the payment of compensation. In livestock we have a loss of nine hundred ovine and caprine animals, of three hundred apiculture flocks and of thirty-six cattle. There are damages to stored products, balls, clovers, etc. in fixed assets such as irrigation systems, agricultural warehouses, facilities and stables and there are damage to plant capital, mainly to olive trees, citrus fruits and vines. This part, which I mentioned now, will be covered by state financial aid, i.e. products stored, I am referring to the restoration of plant capital and the fixed costs. The amount of estimated damage, which I do not know why you say that it is not enough, I would like to know how you calculate enough, because the estimates made by ELGA and which will be fully covered are about 1,200,000 euros. They will therefore be fully covered. Now we do not yet have an assessment, because dossiers are being submitted on the issues that will go to state financial aid. Damages other than uncovered may be covered with de minimis. However, I must also tell you that there is a possibility of covering 30% of the damage from the Ministry of Finance on the basis of specific provisions, but on the basis of a grant for the restoration of machinery and infrastructure. Therefore, with this grid of provisions, we will fully cover whatever damage the area has suffered. In relation to the time of payment of these allowances will be done as soon as possible after receipt of the IACC file from the ELGA and we will speed it up as quickly as possible. And I think you will hear very specifically, I do not want to commit myself at the moment, but to know that we are following a special process of acceleration for Evia. There are other issues in particular, which I will develop in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u9	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u10	Minister, your assessments have not completed the procedure for these amounts. You said 800,000 euros, today you're talking about 1,200,000 euros. We say you see it until this process is finalised, more money is needed. And, of course, when we talk particularly about farmers who have been affected in the region, they are also in the pandemic-related areas, especially those who have a pandemic. I'm telling you, because they're specific. So I should like to help you in this direction, because I see that you are really being delayed without any reason. So far you have only paid the flower producers, you have given EUR 8.9 million to a thousand seventy farmers. We agree. From there on, what do we have? Promises, promises, extensions, extensions, although I told you before, and I repeat this, the European Commission approved on 24-7-2020 the possibility of allocating State aid of EUR 51.23 million to the Greek Government in order to be distributed to agricultural producers who are active in the public market sectors - I stress this again - to sheep and goat farming, we have said so many times before Easter and the cultivation of caves. The farmers and farmers have not yet been paid for these payments. What is the reason for the long duration of the request? Is this money not available from the State General Accounting Office and is the farmer again called upon to pay the cost? The regulation and new measures of the Rural Development Programme have been passed, according to which aid of EUR 7 000 per farmer and EUR 50,000 per undertaking with a total budget of 2% of the nominal assistance from the Rural Development Programme may be granted. For Greece, the budget for this measure is EUR 47 million of Community participation. So why have you so far not given your Ministry guidance on the terms and conditions of aid to farmers? So take care, Minister, three are the problems. The first is to pay as early as possible for the aid from ELGA. If you can join the advance procedure, there is a great need. Secondly, help in the timely payment of the ESDPs. You said something, I heard you about the contribution of the Treasury. Tick it up, because once this amount is finalised there is no problem with the amount to be paid and when the European Commission approves it. And the third is to pay for the pandemic aid. Minister, we have particularly handed you a budgetary field that you can, you have state resources to carry out these policies. We have received a rural area with fines, charges, and we have managed to put some order in place to the point that we have not only had fines and charges, but we have also had refunds, money belonging to the rural area, and at some point it must be supported. We are all talking about productive reconstruction in the country, referring to farmers and forgetting them when they have to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u11	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u12	I will continue to talk about Evia and all the rest will be included in the answer to Mr Arachovitis. There now if you have overlap, let you consult each other at SYRIZA how exactly you want to organise your discussion and theme. In addition to what I have said, which concerns the full coverage of the losses by ELGA and the state financial aid, I must tell you that there are issues which I am also concerned with in terms of primary production. They have suffered considerable damage, not by Mr Apostleus, but I would like to put it in the debate, forage facilities. Evia in that region has very significant livestock in terms of livestock production and some establishments have suffered significant losses. Well, we'll see exactly how these damages are covered. I am in agreement here and with the Ministry of Development, because we may have parallel measures to cover them. The second thing I would like to say is that there is an exceptional operation, which makes mushrooms in Evia, and which has also suffered very significant damage. This is an absolutely exporting business. They are, in fact, homogeneous two companies in which they deal with the same subject, they have suffered considerable damage and this issue also needs to be addressed. We will take care and find the right financial instrument to cover it. There are two issues which have not been raised again by Mr Apostle, which also concern me, because the truth is, Mr President, that anyone who sees the size of the disaster is unique is shocking. The amount of water really changed the geography of the area, changed its morphological field, its geomorphological field. There are two further issues, Mr Apostleou, which concern me and which I will take care of. One is the issue of rural road construction, because we have a disaster of rural roads, and that is where it wants a consultation with the Ministry of the Interior and the municipalities, of course, in order to see the funds required to rebuild the rural road that was destroyed. There is also a question of transporting cassettes that have covered part of the fields. So there we need to see whether this material that has been transferred makes it impossible to use these fields productively, in the fields, or do not cause such a problem. That is why we have already told the ELGO to proceed to tertiary examinations, which will show us if we have alteration and deterioration of soil quality. In this case, measures will obviously have to be taken to restore the soil as far as possible in order to restore this capacity. So, Mr Apostle, what I would like to say is that in a major disaster that has really suffered from Evia and the region concerned, the government from the first moment is there, it has announced a specific package that is being implemented. We do the same in the Ministry of Rural Development. We are watching all the issues very carefully and you can be sure that we are going to act and act in the direction of full support for the region in this great difficulty that it is going through. For all the rest, it is clear that the Members of the region will be informed as the measures are to be developed and we are obviously speeding up the procedures as far as possible so that there is no production disruption. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u13	Let's go to the second with number 999/31-8-2020. top-circuit question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Support measures for farmers, farmers and fishermen due to a coronary pandemic'. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, from the pressures and questions you understand how critical this year is for both the primary and many others, for almost all sectors of the economy, since no sector has been affected by the unprecedented pandemic, but also by what is happening in our country lately and I am referring to what is happening in the Aegean and in relations with the neighbouring country. So all this creates insecurity, creates a fear and, at the same time, we see that there is a decline in the income of producers in most sectors, precisely because conditions have changed in focus, reduced as a nullified tourism, as evidenced by revenues, in exports with problems in export. All this creates a very negative climate that has a direct impact on the income of the producer. And that's what we see every day. We see that even in manufacturing the effects are very large, as market changes have had a similar effect on production. See the winemaking industry and beer production. They are two characteristic branches which have been directly affected by focusing and tourism. It seems that the downward spiral continues in the next period, since the health crisis is not over and we don't know when it's over. So the agony of farmers, farmers, fishermen, beekeepers about what has happened so far and what is going to happen next is reasonable. Let me remind you that here we are all here to transfer the agony of these people who are struggling to survive every day. We're not here for any other reason. This is our mission and our job. Therefore, we need answers here, as the liquidity has been lost and the sustainability of many small and medium-sized farms is surrounded. It needs a frontal support. We believe that the measures which have been announced are not sufficient and we will be discussing and why they are not sufficient. However, the questions that need to be answered now and the world expects to be answered are for the sectors that you have announced that they will be supported by the timetable and follow-up of this question are in the sectors which have proved to be damaged by the pandemic and have not been announced any support from the government, if there is any intention to support and tell us a support plan for the coming sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u15	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, is the practice for speakers to carry a mask or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u17	Let's wear. I understand why you asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u18	No, I'm not saying that for my colleague. I say this because we are obviously all making it easier, but what is envisaged.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u19	At the Conference of Presidents, for reasons that we all understand, we said we should wear. And it was a unanimous decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u20	I was thinking maybe there was a different practice, maybe I could use it, too, not anything else. But it's okay. As far as the issues raised by my colleague are concerned, I would like to say the following. So that goes to Mr Apostle's previous question. We have repeatedly discussed what the philosophy and strategy of using its affluences are provided with the flexibilities that have been given by the reform of the European State Aid Regulations, here in this Chamber, and what is our strategy on how to use them. So what we said and have made a basic choice here as a government is that we are strengthening the affected sectors of primary production. We are not making horizontal policies, we are not making horizontal measures. I think we are absolutely right to that, and I will say why. So what is it that's happened? And I don't know why - not Mr. Arachovitis - Mr. Apostolos raised the tons. What's happened so far? Those funds have been strengthened - and those have been paid - by the flower producers with the sum of EUR 10,130,000. The ministerial decision on 7-8-2020 has been adopted to strengthen the coup d'état by EUR 4.7 million. The Ministerial Decision has been adopted both in the previous ones in order to obtain the money for producers through the OSE system and also by decision of 7-8-2020 to grant state financial aid to producers - public market vendors. This is indeed about part of the flood affected in the area...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u21	They haven't taken a single euro! Do you understand that, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Apostle, you are an old colleague. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr Apostle is an old colleague, but likewise an old populist. So, apart from ancient and parliamentary experience, he obviously has qualities that, despite his ministerial service, he was unable to expel. So he says to me 'yes, but they haven't taken any money'. But how will they have taken money, since they have to open a platform on 7-8-2020 and after the debate on producers of popular markets has been closed after the restrictive measures were lifted up to June and July? So we can get back to seriousness? Should these or should they not be taken into account in order to determine the amounts of aid? Therefore, it was issued on 7-8-2020, the platform is open and people state to get their money. And because I'm speaking with them regularly, with people coming from your home and represented by trade unions, they're doing government Thanksgiving. Are you more interested than yourself? So, in order to return to our measures and the way in which we have to deal with the issue, 14,800,000 are going there. The ovine and caprine animals sector was adopted the day before - after the agreement of the General Accounting Office - the ministerial decision to strengthen the ovine and caprine animals with EUR 30,155,000. Tomorrow, the ministerial decision, which opens the system for ovine and caprine animals, will also be adopted. Mr. Apostle rocks his hand. But what is the reality? The reality is that these are the amounts that will be transferred. And I heard an even worse hint, not from you, Mr Arachovitis, but from Mr. Apostle. Well, it says, the money doesn't exist. In order to be issued, Mr Apostlelos - after your ministerial term, you should know these - decisions which have a cost must be committed by the General Accounting Office. When the decision is adopted, the amounts have already been committed. What isn't there? You're gonna fight back like this? That's what you're gonna say? So I come to this. They're moving on, too. But let's go further. Is that all? On 23-6-2020 de minimis allocation for coastal fishermen of 15,249,000 and even three joint ministerial decisions for de minimis totalling 8,776,000 for greenhouses in Chania, sugar beet, cotton production and winter cereals in the Regional Unit of Evros. Is that all? Oh, no. It is the green harvest of 1.2 million and the crisis distillation which has worked extremely well and will have extremely beneficial effects on wine production. And that's another 21,000. So to speak centrally, at the moment, we are talking about 104 000 000, which have been used to strengthen the primary sector. Do I have your permission to continue, Mr. President, or go to dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u24	All right, anyway, you're gonna shorten the dentistry. Say that, too, and close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u25	Good. Mr. Arachovitis asks what we're still planning. I've talked about strengthening fur animals with 3,000,000. The decisions are made to strengthen medium-sized fisheries from the Fisheries Programme of about 25 000 000. The adoption of the decision to strengthen aquaculture is expected, and we are also considering the aid - because you have asked me what else we are looking at, what we think - of poultry farming, of spring potatoes, of tomato greenhouse, of watermelons and table olives. These are productions which have been affected, which are now disrupted, which we are examining. I'm going to tell you exactly how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u26	Good. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you're probably trying to avoid questions. The first thing we blame you for is that around, farmers see money being given in their pockets so many months after the consequences - they were the first to face the consequences - excluding one, two cases that have already taken money, they have not seen the color of money. The first, then, is time. The second is that the consequences of pandemic are far greater than those you have calculated in both sectors and sectors. I would mention some examples: in sheep and goats, the damage estimated by them is over 80,000 000 000 and you only give 31 000 000. As far as the grape is concerned, in the green harvest you spoke of 1.2 million when the price of the grape collapses. At the moment, the price of the grape, precisely because there is no demand in the winery, falls apart. So the 1.2 million in the green harvest did not contribute to price restraint, nor did it cover the producers. And in a number of other products respectively. The third thing we are accusing you of is the complex procedures. Open up the platform, make statements, need farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen to resort to a technical consultant who will pay him. There is, in other words, a complex procedure, a cost-effective procedure, which will in the end give them a very, very small part of what they have lost. Of course, it is understandable that the total loss cannot be covered. However, when we talk about a huge difference of 80,000 000 to 30 000 000 in sheep and goat production, for example, without calculating livestock or apiculture or other sectors that you know well that they have been affected and that there is no provision at all, you see that measures are inadequate, complicated and beyond the time-frame that farmers would expect and are necessary for primary production. I am always tempted here - when farmers see money spread everywhere - to tell you that the Guarantee Fund has not yet given a penny of liquidity to the market. How will the improvement plans or investment plans be running with this situation on the market? Who will implement an improvement plan without having the possibility of lending or granting a subsidy and when products are not going well? So the PAA, the Rural Development Programme, is at risk in total. Other branches that were already before the pandemic - such as olive oil - had problems - the price since September 2019 had collapsed almost half of last year - did not seem to be supported by anything. It's a shock. It is not just that the price has collapsed, but that it has collapsed in such a time without the producers having to react. The effects of the pandemic, where exports had their limitations - in Italy, above all, and in Spain, which are two countries with which we have traditional trade relations in olive oil - have now disappeared every effort that could have been built in previous years to upgrade trade in olive oil. Tools such as the 'Students in schools' programme, which the European Parliament has chosen on the days of the pandemic to be a solution to absorption and to stimulate consumption, have not been exploited. Not to say more visionary measures, which could, since we do not have the limitations on the memorandum - as Mr Apostleou mentioned - develop, like agricultural oil, and give relief. This is a golden opportunity to return measures where we no longer have the limitations we had in the past. We have no memorials, we have the horn pandemic that allows us to do some things and we do not see until now that no such attempt has been made. We, as you can see, are constructive opposition. We are not talking about these proposals today. We've been filing them for several months already. You could use and implement some of these proposals. What you do not do, puts you in front of your responsibilities. You're accountable to the rural world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u28	We asked a question today, but what should we do? It's rural. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u29	This, Mr President, is a point which is understandable from the point of view of SYRIZA, in the sense that they are starting, putting an agenda, does not come out, and now we have to change the subject and put other issues. Let us go a little bit over your basic claims on aid issues. First of all, as regards the picture of the collapse which you have said, I will tell you that agricultural production is not uniform. There are branches that have been under pressure and have gone well. We have an export record on oranges and kiwi. Export record! We have a record of all time with a 47.1% increase compared with last year in cherries, with increased prices. A record of growth in watermelon but indeed low prices. Exporting, however, was very much enhanced. The grape right now that we're talking has increased demand. And because you're talking about a collapse, where do you have a collapse picture? I have a detailed reference from the prices per region yesterday. In the Amyntaio area where it is a large wine-growing area has the grape collapsed? Increased prices compared to last year. There are, therefore, areas where the price of the grape is currently being pressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u30	In Achaea?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u31	Don't rush. Let the vintage evolve. Because this is a second issue which you must also understand. Once an initial disturbance occurs in a production until the closure of production, there have also been very high fluctuations and demand phenomena. I would like to say to you that because it is the situation as a result of the pandemic's restrictive measures, there is an image that cannot be judged in the first week. It must allow each production to be completed and then make its decisions. You are telling me that the sums are not enough and you have invoked me the 80 million for ovine and caprine animals. Where does that number come from? I challenge you now - but you will hurt people - if you tell me that again, we can have a conversation with numbers - but I say again that you will hurt people! - and end this story, because their serious and responsible representatives don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u32	But they've written it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u33	They wrote it down. Did you hear that again, Mr. Arachovite? One who said it and one who forgot it! So why do you come back to something - I say again - that will hurt them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u34	Do you like them or do you not like their representatives? It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u35	Whether I like them or I don't like them, they're their representatives. I don't choose them. The representatives of the livestock farmers shall be the representatives of the farmers. And I say that they initially put something in place, there was an extensive debate, and that figure understood how reasonable and fair it is and you have left yourself to say it. And I'm telling you again, we're going to have the conversation with numbers at the end. Because I will come to tell you: put the lentils, please, very much, compare me with the average of the last three years and get the information of the DRLs from the prices, so that we can sit down and take the damage. Do it next time, because you won't even say eighty again. So let's go further. I would like to say to you - and I have told you many times - that you have learned of something that is no longer there and that does not exist in these measures. Why? Because they are measures to restore the affected and therefore they must be approved by the European Commission and therefore the industry's damage must be determined, this is not a political issue. Have you learned in the political negotiation of "How much do you want Nico? I want fifty. We don't have 50, we don't have the budget. We got ten. Shall I close it in the 20s to be okay?' We don't do that. We're not making this type of approach. What the sale is, how much are the prices, how much is the reduction in demand, how much is the reduction in consumption, what the overall impact on the industry is, we determine the damage, we distribute the damage on a fair and rational basis. So when you fly numbers, I say again - do not do so in this process without having studied. That's why this process takes too long. Because it's not de minimis. Politically within the limits set by de minimis you can decide what to give. We can't do that. He needs approval.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u36	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u37	I'm done. And I'm going to the process. I'll say it right now to make it clear. Since I am going to say that there is a sector - which means that we have finished the preparatory process, that is, production is over, the numbers are closed, we have a full picture of the disturbance and we start and calculate it - with this amount, the producers and you three to four months will count to get the money to the producer. Why is this time required?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u38	Why? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Apostle, I'm surprised. Have you served as Minister? You don't have the right to ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u40	Minister, listen, I can't do this anymore. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u41	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Apostle, nothing is written in the Minutes anyway. And, Minister, please, close. I'm not holding today's meeting, the Ministry of Agriculture. There's another ministry that follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u43	This decision is required to go to the European Commission. From the European Commission, once it returns, it must go to the General Accounting Office. This is the first decision. This is the commitment of the amount. Subsequently, a second decision applies the measure. It gives the mandate to the OPECE to implement the measure, opens the information system and takes time. So listen, let me tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u44	Minister, I can't. Please hang up. Resistance is exhausted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u45	If you give me five seconds, I'm closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u46	Five seconds, yeah. It's not for forty-five minutes for two questions from the Ministry of Agriculture. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u47	You're right. In the fisheries de minimis case, do you know how much time we left? Two months. Do you know how many people have the right to enter? Thirteen thousand fishermen. Do you know how many people came in? Ten thousand five hundred! We miss two and a half thousand who have the right to be strengthened and have not been in shape. We've given them more time. So the media must also tell them - I mean all of us - you have to let them know. All of us have to do our best.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u48	Shut up, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u49	So that explains what time is needed. And yet it is not going to give opposition to such an approach at the time when producers know they will get their money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u50	We're done! That wasn't questions, it was questions, and you were lucky they were four today. Otherwise, I wouldn't have left you. We continue with the next two topical questions concerning the Ministry of Culture and Sport. The Minister will respond to the one, Mrs Méndonis, who is present, as always, as Mr Aygeakis has always done in the next. We therefore proceed immediately to the debate of the first under number 989/28-8-2020 on a second time question from the Messinia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Charitable to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "To reveal and highlight the ancient findings of the plaza of the Pepantian square in Kalamata". Indeed excellent, beautiful square, Mr. Haritsi. Whoever hasn't gone to go. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your good words about our city. Minister, the task of rejuvenating the Hypatio Kalamata Square after the completion a few days ago of the contractor's promotion notice has indeed caused a very great disturbance to the inhabitants and also to the residents of our city. According to the study of square refreshment, the refreshment of the square has not been taken into account for the last sixty years of ancient findings that had already been revealed since the late 19th century and have unfortunately not been taken into account in their excavation and promotion. I'm making a very brief regression, because you need to know that. Let me inform you - if you do not know - that here we are talking about the last part of an overall regeneration process, which lasts many years, in the historic centre of the city and in which - to their credit - all the mayors who have spent the last decades, one after another, have continued all this work and are in the last part of this effort. In 2011, therefore, the municipality wanted to go ahead with the regeneration of the square and the local archaeological service recommended the self-evident, i.e. the parallel conduct of systematic excavations for the study and promotion of antiquities, which were already known to host the area as it was already a declared archaeological site. The systematic excavation of the work and the specific space, as the Association of Excavators of Archaeologists points out, will highlight antiquities that go back to geometric, archaeological, classical, Hellenistic, Roman and medieval times. Especially for the Kalamata region, I would like to inform you that this is of particular importance, since the only other visiting archaeological site is in Akovitika, so it is very crucial that this connection be made and that this mistaken impression, if you like, starts from medieval times and not from antiquity. Sadly, however, during your last visit to Kalamata, Minister, when you were asked the question, you stated that registration as a way of protection serves and best protects the ancients and you responded negatively to the request to highlight the findings. However, I do not think the substance is scientifically substantiated and correct. Here we are talking about the need for the Ministry of Culture to have a comprehensive strategy and a political will for systematic research, excavation and promotion of our cultural heritage together, of course, with renovations, which are very important for the quality of life of our cities and in this case Kalamata, so that their cities and residents can live in modern conditions. It is equally important, however, that residents have the opportunity, to know, to communicate, if you like, and in their past, and through these findings with the history of their city. The Ministry of Culture, in our view, needs to demonstrate rather than take over the historic course of an important city, such as the city of Kalamata, how much more so when this request is a request which is embraced by the vast majority of the people of the city. With this data and in view of the fact that we are living at a time when we are all seeing it when we are traveling to all European cities, there is a great effort from everyone to highlight their historic centres by promoting their historical and cultural heritage, but also from this pandemic, return me to say in the literal sense of the term, a request on the part of the inhabitants of Kalamata, I ask you, Madam Minister, if you will begin the procedures for revealing the ancients of the Hypatist Square and if you will ensure that the process of renovating the square is progressing, of course, with an updated study, which will provide for the enhancement of the ancient and the timely history of our city, as I repeat - as the local community wants - together again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u52	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, thank you very much for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify a number of issues on the issue of antiquities at the Hypatia Square in Kalamata, not only on the basis of what we want, but also on the basis of the institutional framework that is in place and to see what needs to be done to move in or in the direction that is now moving this study or to revise it. In 1960, during the works on the square around the Temple of Hypaniti, the then curator of antiquities Nikolaos Gialouris conducted a life - not systematic - excavation on the southeast corner of the square, in which large walls were revealed, which seems to be a public thing. These walls date back to the Roman times. It was a life-saving excavation of the order of about three hundred squares. This survey has never been published and the only known data we have is a publication of the newspaper "Kathimerini" on 14 August 1960. On the basis of these findings, therefore, some scholars consider that the ancient city of Fara should have developed in the area within and around the castle of Kalamata. In 2010, he was submitted by the technical services of the Municipality of Kalamata with an updated premeditation: “Development of the square of the Holy Hypanitris in Kalamata in the context of the study of renovation of the historic centre of Kalamata, phase III.” The two then-accompanied evacuations of antiquities, the Ego of Prehistoric Classical Antiquities and the 26th Ecumber of Byzantine Antiquities forwarded the study, as they had to do, to the central offices of the Ministry of Culture. The issue was introduced for the statutory opinion of the Central Archaeological Council in March 2011. The Council gave its opinion on the study of the renewal of the Hypanitis Square, which has been filed by the municipality - I stress this - provided: "The underlying antiquities in the south-eastern part of the square are kept in registration for better protection". This is also mentioned in the relevant decision of the then Minister of Culture: "We approve the updated premeditation of the square of the Holy Hypothesis in Kalamata, apart from the configuration that provides for the discovery of archaeological remnants of old excavation and their cover with a glass roof, because the preservation of these residues in registration is preferable for their effective protection. In addition, when carrying out the work, care should be taken to remove the material of the old coverage of the square floor in a small depth so as not to unleash the concrete.’ I submit to the Minutes and the relevant Ministerial Decision. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture, Mr Styliani Menduis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here I would point out that according to the provisions of Law 3028/2002 and scientific ethics, registration is a way of protecting antiquities, and that is quite clear. If that were not the case, the decision and many other decisions would be illegal. But what matters is to realize that all the ancients are not potential reproach. That is why the archaeological law provides for specific ways and degrees of protection. The listing often best protects ancients from what one will consider to be their mark. Regardless of this, however, in May 2015 - SYRIZA government - Messinia Antiquities Agency approved and considered the final study of the implementation of this project, which was in line with the Ministerial Decision, namely the non-disclosure of ancient remains in the southeast corner of the square. Therefore, according to the law - with the law, I stress it - and administrative practice, for the Ministry of Culture this has been completed when this study was approved. As far as I know, and since the information I have from the services, no new elements have been submitted to any service to haunt the matter on the Central Archaeological Council. As I have already mentioned in my recent visit to Kalamata, the relevant authority is the municipality. Once it presents new data, then in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law, the Ministry of Culture will do what it needs to do, bring the matter back to the Central Archaeological Council. This means that a new study will have to be submitted which clearly provides for the conduct of the excavation of the antiquities of 1960 and the way in which such antiquities are protected and raised on the basis of modern standards, in order to ensure that the antiquities are properly maintained and, secondly, that scientific staff approach to their necessary maintenance and cleansing operations is uninterrupted. I must also point out that in accordance with the provisions - there are specific provisions in Law 3028/2002 - the funding for drawing up the appropriate technical solution for the purpose of research, protection and promotion of antiquities and the costs of its implementation by the responsible Messinia Antiquities Commissioners should be provided for in the project budget. Archaeological works will be an autonomous sub-project to protect the existing antiquities in the technical financing document for the whole project. This is the legal procedure. This procedure must be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u54	Well, if I understood it correctly, so that I could help the process a little now and not go to an endless debate, you said, Madam Minister, to Mr. Haritsis that if Mayor Kalamatas submit additional information, the Ministry is ready to return the study for revision. Mr. Haritsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u55	I will be brief, Mr President, as far as possible. Why let me tell you that this issue may be a matter of local interest, but believe me it is a matter that concerns local society very much. Madam Minister, you, in your reply, have also insinuated it - and the President-in-Office has said so now - that there are actually solutions, solutions can be found so that regeneration can proceed and at the same time the revelation, promotion and protection of the ancients in the High Priest Square. I think it is very important that people have been placed on this issue too important, who have experience in the relevant issues greater than me, and I think it would be important for Parliament to present their views. I refer to the statements made by the archaeologist Mr. Themelis, who has also been associated with the region, because of his long-standing involvement in the promotion of the very important archaeological site of Messini, who claims that, if you want to rinse the square, they must excavate and maintain the ancients down, visit and visible, be maintained, solidated and excavated more fully, because the archaeologist Gialouris, who made it a matter of hurry during a so-called lifestyle, as you said, and not of systematic excavation. Now that we know it's ancient, we have to do a systematic excavation. I shall submit to the minutes the statement by the archaeologist Mr. Themeli. The former mayor and former Minister of Culture, who was also responsible for the subject, Mr Benos, speaks of moments, which are symbolic and great for our historic city. "The processes for the launch of the Hypapest Square renewal projects must be stopped now. Transferring money to other projects is a simple process. Immediately the processes for systematic excavation should be started, which will be the best guide to the study." It describes, and how to find the necessary funding to proceed with the project, while Messinia - you know, for the city of Kalamata is of particular importance, because this site has been identified in the collective subconscious with religious worship, since there is the city's politicist, the Panpaniti - says: "From the first time I came to Kalamata in 2007, I was in favour of revealing the ancients of the city in Hyapaneti, because it is an element of the city's history and we must respect it and it is part of the city's cultural course." I would like to present these, if I may, Mr President, in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think, Minister, it is very important to inform you that in the last few days there has been a development that an inter-class committee is being set up on the city council. The issue will also be discussed on the city council. Since, on your part, you have replied to me today that it is important to submit new updated data to see if the issue can be reviewed by the Central Archaeological Council, I think this is a message that is important. So there are solutions. The political will needs and I call on you - I think it is very important for our entire city - to show this political will necessary to find a solution. We are not talking about an incidental issue, we are talking about the history of our city, about how the modern city, its inhabitants, its future generations will communicate, talk to the past, with the history of Kalamata, and I think it is very important to find a solution that is mutually acceptable. They do not fit into such issues, in my opinion, micro-participatory conflicts. All of us sitting together on the same side of the table to find a solution to the refreshment, but at the same time the systematic excavation to highlight and protect the ancients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u56	Good. Anyway, Mr. Haritsis, today's SYRIZA signature is on it. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u57	Mr Papoutsis, I respect the views of the excavator of Messini, professor and friend and colleague, Mr Peter Themelis. Mr. Benos was a mayor in Kalamata. It is considered and is one of the very good self-government. Of course, he was the mayor after 1960, who had revealed these antiquities by Nikos Gialouris, but regardless of all of them the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture is obliged to implement the law and I said it, I think, very thoroughly in my protagonism. Since the relevant body, which is the Municipality of Kalamata, presents new elements, new study, obviously the Ministry of Culture will follow the procedure provided for by the law and the Minister, i.e. I will refer the matter back to the Central Archaeological Council. I do not hide from you that I appreciate your concern, like the interesting portion of your compatriots - because in Kalamata there is no match on this issue, but in any case - who wish to investigate the past of the city and to reveal the data that may strengthen the view that today's Kalamata is the successor situation, is identified spatially with the ancient city of Fara. As I have already mentioned, on the basis of the antiquities of Hypapanitis, some scholars consider that the ancient city of Fara has actually developed within and around the castle of Kalamata. I'm just wondering if you've thought that all the actors in the city could look more scientifically for Kalamata's past in the castle. Because if the modern city really wants the research and promotion of its past, the Messinia Antiquities Agency, in collaboration with the University of Peloponnese, could develop a programme of systematic archaeological research in the castle. This would really make sense, as the field of research can be chosen from the outset on the basis of scientific criteria and not on the basis of an accidental finding at the corner of the current Hypnotist Square, where - notable - the underlying antiquities can be extended under the church or the episcopal mansion. If so, how can antiquities be revealed and properly manifested? Is the excavation going to be extended to an underground ditch under the Temple of Hypatient? This should be taken into account by any study. Or will the episcopal mansion be carried? It's technically all done. The Ministry of Culture and their relevant services have, within the framework of sustainable development, an obligation to ensure monuments based on the principles of integrated protection, as reflected in the archaeological law and in the international conventions signed and ratified by Greece. I would like to assure you that, in the case of the ancient Faras, of the present Kalamata, the Ministry of Culture is obliged to do exactly the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u58	Good. Right on time, Minister. Since I have you here, I expect to see a detailed announcement from the Ministry of Culture about vandalism in Tatoi of the royal graves. I expect to see whether the guard is sufficient, how many policemen are guarding the space, now that it is going to be regenerated, and whether there is a record of historical objects and what is in there now. I hope I'll see it in your communication and I won't have to ask a question. Let's go to the last timely question. It is the second under number 990/30-8-2020 of the first cycle of the Piraeus II piraeus by Mera25 Mr.Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Foodball League and unification of professional categories". The State Secretary responsible, Mr. Aegakis, will answer. Mrs. Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you for being here today to discuss a quite serious matter, as we are only a few days before the opening of the championship and no solution has yet been given. But let's move on to the object. The advent of the pandemic in our country has led, as is fatal and logical, to a halt to all professional and amateur sports championships. The inability to start was the occasion of a wide-ranging debate on the restructuring of professional categories, the increase of the first two and the abolition of the third category football. Super League 1 decided unanimously, with the sole disagreement of the group that it does not want to change the number of teams and that it wishes to comply with those set out in the relevant notice for the coming season 2020-2021. This is how the teams of Super League 2 and Football League, which, as you know best from me, have a joint management board and at a teleconferencing meeting on 3 August, discussed and voted on the subject. As shown by the EP document under Protocol No 92324 on the same day, the proposal was put to the Football League 1 and Super League 2 groups for integration, voted in favour of ten groups and by five. It was therefore unable to obtain the required majority of three quarters, as set out in the proposal. Thus, despite the fact that a majority of groups were in favour of the abolition of the categories and of the integration into a national two North-South groups, which could objectively reduce the costs of the teams, there would be conditions for the employment of a larger number of Greek football professionals, rules could be laid down to cover the costs of the teams by television contracts, but also for the betting companies to be taxed so that ERT is not charged, unfortunately you have not yet restructured. That is why, Minister, I would like you to answer the two simple questions that I have put to you: firstly, if you intend and when to resolve the issue, given that we are already in the early September and the start of the championship is imminent, and secondly, why are you not following the decision of the NRA, which calls for unification, invoking the three-quarters majority, while the majority has objectively agreed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Bakadima, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to give me formal and institutional information from the Step of the House and, of course, to clarify a number of information, which is probably incorrect on the issues that concern the abolition of Football League, issues - I would like to say - on which I have received questions from my dear colleagues, Mr Manda and Mr Papa, who are also in the Chamber and are following our debate. I assume that you too, Mrs Bakadima, have fallen victim to this misinformation, it seems to me that what you said to us before, since you mistakenly referred to the question which reached my hands that the teams of Super League 2 and Football League have asked, as you say, for the abolition of Football League and the unification of the two professional categories. It is not true what you have written in the question that you submitted just now. It is not true that the groups have agreed with the increased majority of three quarters to unify the two categories, on the contrary, Mrs Bakadima, there was a proposal for a single category with Super League 2 and two groups of sixteen groups, which, however, did not collect the required majority of the law. I write in the minutes the relevant letter dated 3 August of Super League 2 and Football League to the NCA. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second mistake: Mrs Bakadima, I am glad to say that I have been transferring my responsibilities for two months. I would therefore inform you that on 19 August the Executive Committee of the NCA only met on the unification of the second and third professional category and informed the Ministry of the Environment of its decision by letter of 20 August. I put this letter in the Minutes, which I have just received - for the record - from twelve days ago. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How does the two-month period that you report turn out to be? Within the same day there was an answer from the Ministry to the SGP. I shall submit the letter to the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that at least you have the courage of accusing us of the restructuring of the championships and especially the second category of Greek football. Let me just remind you that the government of SYRIZA in May 2019 passed the law of Vassileadis, which made three professional categories of two, namely by Super League and Football League, made them Super League 1 and Super League 2 and Football League and, indeed, promised abundant state money through ERT and, of course, through the Greek taxpayer. At the same time - I would remind you - the minimum share capital has decreased for each OIP as follows: Super League 1 out of a million euros in 500,000 euros, Super League 2 out of 30 000 euros in 100,000 euros and Football League just 30,000 euros of share capital. In other words, it has made it possible to create a third category, without any criteria. With 30,000 euros, anyone who wanted to create an ODP for others, non-agonist, purposes probably or trying with other procedures to survive, which the ODP just established. Furthermore, the SYRIZA government did so in the absence of the football community and keep it. Let me remind you that they disagreed with the law of Vassiliadis and the ET and the then organizing authority, the Football League, which became the Super League 2 and Football League then. Now you come and blame us for the restructuring, the one that the President of SYRIZA voted for? Yes, the New Democracy has voted against the Baselian law and I recall it. We had then voted against the authoritarian behaviour of the Minister of Sports against the football community and my rhetoric, and then as an MEP, and now as the Deputy Minister of Sports, it remains the same, it was wrong to restructure as it was then and it cannot be just a state-run football. Finally, we all agree in this Chamber - and all of the football community - that the restructuring of SYRIZA has failed and the tactic followed by SYRIZA has then failed. So, you're asking us to follow the same route? Certainly not. For this reason, I shall mention exactly what we intend to do as government today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u62	Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Undersecretary, you accused me of lying. Obviously, you didn't listen well to what I said. I said they voted in favour of ten groups, five. You prevented me from making the same letter in the Minutes, and I said that it did not collect the necessary three-quarters majority. Therefore, I don't understand where it turns out that I lied to my prototype. From that point on, I will not apologise, Mr. Aughaki, for what SYRIZA has done. I was never a member of SYRIZA, I was never a SYRIZA Member. Therefore, I cannot understand why we need to discuss and why I have to apologize for the restructuring of Mr Vassiliou. Obviously, I won't. Mr. Secretary, you asked for the verdict of the groups of the two categories on unification. First of all, let us look a little more closely at the role of the NDP. We all know it is the supreme principle of football and it can provide guidance and solution to its members' associations when they find themselves in a failure to resolve an issue. Such a failure to resolve is also this, given the circumstances that we all understand, we all know, those of the pandemic. That is why we believe that in this case it is indeed something that the ETUC has diagnosed. I shall make a reference to her meeting on 19 August, just as you did, in which the President of Super League 2 and Football League said that the association does not know what to do, they are the same ones in deadlock, does not know what will happen to the championship and asked for the assistance of the NGO. It is precisely because of the special circumstances that we think that the NCA should - contrary to what is stated in its statute - that any decisions on restructuring should have been taken before 31 July - an exception should be made, because the circumstances are specific. In other words, we consider that these are force majeure conditions and that Article 79 of the Statute of the NRA should be invoked. From there on, you will allow me to note that, according to the information - you will tell me if I lie here - of the thirty-four unions - members of the restructuring associations have been placed twenty-seven and seven. But what you do not answer me, and I expect you to do so in your dentistry, is your obsession with three quarters of the majority. Why can't it be lifted in this case? I expect you to tell me. Because while a solution can be found, it will eventually be given. Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all put above all the good of the sport. Unfortunately, however, we do not all seem to have the same perception of this. We, as a PARTA25, consider it right and fair to ensure the sustainability and interest of football. You consider it best to protect and strengthen the domestic parasitic oligarchy that engenders the sport, choosing for its own reasons each oligarch to create an OEM. There's a lot of them. We could have had the debate, because it creates an IAEA and what it is using it. We have no room for doing so now, we hope to have the opportunity to do so at some other time. Minister, in closing, I would like to invite you - I am waiting to see your answer - to dare to do so, once you do not agree, and to vote against the previous restructuring, what all the historical groups are asking for, by unifying the two categories and putting a brake on the conversion of the football into a sport of demonstration, power and power, jacks, chests and a special game between powerful and powerful players. Act the healthy restructuring that Greek football needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u65	Dear Mrs Bakadima, firstly, bold does not mean authoritarianism and does not mean illegality; secondly, I read in the question you sent me, I have heard you and come to conclusions, but assumptions, which are fantasy scenarios and words of the cafeteria and not the results of the institutions that I have invoked. So I would ask you very much to consult on what decisions have been taken - if they have been made - the institutions, which you refer to, and then I am in reintroducing this debate, but with more and more precise information on your part. How's our government? Already, since April, we have voted for a provision - that is, months ago - which we are giving the opportunity to amend regulations and a call for sports events. I refer to Article 8 of Law 1684/2020. We have given the board of directors or the executive committee of each of the organising authorities the opportunity to decide. On 19 August, as I told you earlier, the Executive Committee of the SNE took two decisions: the next Super League 2 to have eighteen teams and the Football League to have sixteen teams or to ask us to abolish Football League by law and the Super League 2 to carry out thirty-four groups divided into two groups of seventeen geographically, north and south, in order to reduce costs and travel. However, the Executive Committee of the EEA did not have any such decision by the Organising Authority of the Super League 2, Football League. He had no decision. Typically, as an overriding authority, it can decide, but morally, the OIPs in this category must also agree. Immediately on the decisions of the NRA were appeals for three PDOs - Kassiopi, Apollo Pontou and Chania - in the arbitration court. So what are you telling us? Are you telling us to ignore all this procedure provided for by the legislation? No, of course not. When the NCA sent us the letter with its decisions on 20 August, as I said in my prototype, we replied to her on the same day without delay that we were in agreement with the structure of professional football, as implemented by the previous political leadership, but failed. We agree he failed. We agree he didn't walk. I'm glad everyone here is saying the same thing after all. We have responded that we are in favour of targeted actions for the better dissemination of football, but always on criteria for the sustainability and development of the sport. Of course, we are aware that we are awaiting the rulings of the arbitration court and the official position of the organiser of the Super League 2, Football League to determine all together and to make a right, sustainable and rapid decision, after consultation and not in the absence of the parties involved. That is what we have answered to the NRA on the very same day. We therefore expect the official decision, based on criteria, on a sustainability plan and a set of criteria and, of course, a broad consultation product. Since April they have known the procedures. Does it seem to you that in private, if you have spoken, football players have an opinion and are telling the truth, but as a body it is difficult to make the decision? I'm impressed by all the difficulties that have to end up. Be careful, however, you said that there was no solution. In democracy there is no dead end. I've told them many times. If you find it difficult to make a decision, it is a decision to conclude that we cannot make a decision and empower the Government and, of course, to proceed to the restructuring process. But not to say anything, not to end up anywhere, and then wait for the government to shoot with a lot of ease. We won't trespass with the laws. We are working in the institutions and, above all, we condemn in every way what the previous government has said - and that is why I mentioned it - has done and acted with an authoritarianism which is unprecedented. We're not missing. On the contrary, we respect and respond directly within the same day, because it is of great interest to us, the product that will be produced in the second category of Greek football. So far, then, I have been telling you that nothing has happened of what we are expecting. Our football economy and the Greek market fit far less FAE than it consumes. Right now, it's about forty-eight, please! Of course, one last thing, just to inform all of us: ERT did not have an unstoppable fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u66	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-02-S1-commons.u67	With the agreement of the House at 10.49 p.m., the sitting is closed on Thursday 3 September 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
