ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 9-7-2020, RoZ's minutes of sessions, Thursday 9 July 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions"]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we begin, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday 13 July 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 889/3-7-20, by the third Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the West Attica of the New Republic Mr Athanasios Bourras to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Recommendation of a police department in the Local Community of Kineta of the Municipality of Megares". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 8853-7-2020 topical question by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The opening of a new border crossing and a customs station in Pella". 3. - The question asked by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Health, on "To appoint directly the Board of Directors and the Governor at the General Hospital of Larissa". 4. Under No 881/30-6-2020, Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou asked the Minister of Justice the question: 'The urgent lack of legislative care regarding the accounting system'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In danger the smooth functioning of the Preveza Hospital, due to the lack of nephrologists and anaesthetics." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 891/5-7-20 by MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Incentives for the recruitment of doctors to hospitals on the islands and remote areas". 3. The Question No 882/1-7-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'A one-off payment delay in the earthquakes of Zakynthos'. 4. The 901/6-7-2020 topical question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Justice, entitled 'References to Justice of the Minister of Development Adonni Georgiades'. 5. Under No 899/6-7-2020, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct interventions and mechanism to address the problems arising from the construction of the airport". 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Institutions of arrest and attempted terrorisation of members of the environmental movement". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 905-6-7-20 of the Greek Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Not the concession of the Centre for the Health of the Gate of Axis until a suitable and adequate reception and operation space for his services has been found." 8. Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Restabilise the General Hospital of Western Attica (G.N.A.) Saint Barbara. Handshakes do not save lives." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Primary Care for Health (PHP) Magnesia for the next day of the battle against the coronary (Covid -19)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving on to the topical and urgent question report for today. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House of the timely questions to be discussed at this sitting. The third debate under number 903/6-2020 will be preceded by a topical question by MP B3's South Athens Section of the Kommunist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problem of the hundreds of workers, by court decisions, to e-FKA. Let the redundancies be taken back now." The current question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. I would ask you to keep the time, because we have already lost fifteen minutes and there are too many questions. And we have visitors to the House today, and we have to be in the middle of everything. Mr Katsotis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with a comment on yesterday's events. Last night a massive answer was given to the government by thousands of employees and youth who sent out the message that the law adopted by the government will be left on paper to ban demonstrations. They sent the message that the provocatives would be dealt with. The government's provocative plan to dismantle the mass rally did not pass. The class struggle, Minister, will increase and that is because the working class does not accept living in unemployment, in poverty and in impoverishment. He does not accept the policy that breaks down wages, pensions, which constantly gives new weapons to business groups, to increase their exploitation, to lay off whenever they want, to employ whenever and as many as they want, to reward as they want. So the answers are ahead. The question concerns the hundreds of forty workers who, by court decisions of the EPC, are in the Agency. Thirteen of them, on the basis of negative decisions, were fired despite a positive commitment by the administration to ensure that they are not fired, because they are necessary in the agency. But the decision, unfortunately, was this, and she was deprived of workers with seventeen years of work losing their jobs and today being out of business. Several attempts have been made so far in relation to workers, they have already made a proposal - an amendment they have tabled. I will table it in the Minutes, Minister, if you really intend to ensure that the workers, the explanatory statement and the proposal - an amendment - are assured. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have to tell you that here we have reactions from both the POSE - IKA and from the ADEDY in relation to the redundancies of these workers and because things with the organisation are very difficult, in relation to the outstanding pensions that are far behind and then increasing, we believe that what you have done with the dismissal of those who were and in front of the guises and who make pensions, is against the pensioners, against the workers, and we think that the Ministry must take measures, in order to return these workers, to ensure the rest of them and not have the same fate, so as to serve the needs of the organisation. Our question is this: What are you going to do to ensure that these workers do not lose their jobs and, of course, legally and definitively to find a solution for the rest of the workers who are in this employment relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u4	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin by replying to Mr Katsotis's comment that here in Greece, as you know in the developed Western world and especially in Europe, we have democracy. From what you said, you give me the feeling that you're ready for popular rebellion and revolution. But you know that in democracies there are rules, laws, procedures, the opinion of many. So until you get that percentage, which will give you the right to talk about prevalence of the proletariat, I recommend that you be a little more careful both in your positions and in your opinions, because what you say is re-evaluating with society itself, with the workers, with the pensioners, who are not around you, do not trust you because they know very well that what you say is out of place and time. I am now entering the essence of the answer. Here, Mr Kattotis, let me say that we agree. We agree with the feeling that we have the same anxiety for these workers, as I will explain. We have the same sensitivity. I would like to inform the House of the specific issues that concern this group of workers, Mr President. This is a significant number of workers on the e-ECA former contractors of the former PLO and subsequently of the former IKA, who have been in the service since 2003 under judicial decisions. That's the truth. And I'm explaining. These people were hired through contracts of work experience under the educational programme ‘STAGE’. These contracts, which were originally designated as apprenticeship contracts, were continuously renewed, with the result that contractors have been employed for a long time in various public services. Those contractors claim that they cover the fixed and continuous needs of the service and through their actions brought before the political courts, on the one hand, that their successive contracts are, on the other, a single contract of indefinite duration and, on the other, that the wage differences resulting from the reduced remuneration which they received in return for their services offered in relation to permanent employees should be paid to them. Preliminary rulings on the above actions, which required the former PLO, the universal successor of which was the former IKA - EBRD and the current ECA to accept the services of the plaintiffs, were brought against the appeal. One of the appeals given in 2017 - to repeat, Mr Katsotis, in 2017 - was number 4954/2017, which accepted the appeal of the current e-ECA and implemented it made a decision not to accept services offered for six of the applicants, who were still providing their services to the body. Given this situation, the administration of the eFCA has no choice - it is a one-way - rather than complying with the rulings of the Greek political courts. Under different circumstances, these necessary and competent workers in e-ECA would still provide their valuable and multi-annual experience, helping to demanding and difficult work, as you quite rightly identified, by the National Social Security Agency, e - E-ECA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u6	Mr Katsotis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u7	On the question of whether we are ready for the popular uprising, yes, we are ready, Minister. We are always ready, as long as the people decide to revolt against this policy, the wild austerity, the wild measures that support their capital and their needs. Nor are you a majority, Minister. You are not the majority who takes these measures against many. And whether the workers trust us, yes or no, that's what life will show, anyway, who will finally reach the target and who will stay behind. You do, however, represent the few. Now invoke the court ruling. Of course, the courts decide. Based on what? On the basis of the legislative framework that you are doing. So you have to resolve the matter and you cannot blame the judge, who has before him the law that you have passed. So you also need to resolve the issue of these workers in the organization, which are indeed necessary. Seventeen years of work and get fired? You have great responsibilities. They have acquired experience, which are necessary, in the organization and we have tabled to you the amendment that the workers themselves have made to the SYRIZA Government. Yes, you are right, in 2017 this decision was made by SYRIZA going to the courts, not to make their work acceptable. They have tabled the amendment to SYRIZA too, who has not accepted it, and they are tabling it to you too. We have now tabled it here, so that you can see it, and if you really say that they are necessary, you only have legislative arrangements to resolve the issue so that the hundreds of forty employees remain in the Agency. Because yesterday, Minister, you made some announcements in relation to - if you like - the pensioners' retrospectives of supplementary pensions. You say there have been increases. First of all, they're not increases. And that should be understood by all pensioners. It is part of the savage cuts that have been made at the expense of retired people in recent years. ELIOS figures reflect the recurring pension cuts. And they don't leave your own term, your own cuts when you were Minister before. Since then pensioners' pensions have been cut to EUR 692, the death of EUR 434 and the disability of EUR 487. That's the situation today. As far as outstanding pensions are concerned, Minister, you must not be proud of performance. There are now a number of websites from pensioners who wait two and three years for you, particularly, to say: 'We want to understand that we have not accepted your indifference'. And they say you made a commitment that by June 2020 you would have solved the problem of outstanding pensions. You are being denounced here that you are following such a course, an indifference to those who live in a difficult situation without income, with an advance pension payment, which is far behind what they are entitled to. We because it relates to this issue - if you wish - do indeed once again to say that despite the judicial decisions we have said that they are taken under your law, you only have to bring this amendment proposed by the workers and solve the problem so that we can ensure that the workers' pensions and insurance benefits are quickly brought out to the agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. It is interesting every time Mr Katsotis asks me a timely question, because we always start with politics issues. Well, Mr. Katsotis, the workers are not close to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u10	Not even to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u11	The workers aren't close to you. Look, you told me today that you're ready for a revolution. But this revolution has to wait for many years, Mr Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u12	What time does not take!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u13	Because in the world, not only for the workers, even for the unemployed and the retired, the idea that your vision, your plan, could be realised, their hair rises, because they know that nowhere in the world is what you are calling for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u14	And with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u15	If, the non-sexualist, in our country, your views prevailed, they know that everyone would enter the pile and talk about the justice of the proletariat: poor workers, poor pensioners, everyone in the pile. Justice for all. Under the umbrella, everybody. And the workers who are here in the House listen to them. The employees of the Parliament, the private sector workers, the public sector are listening to them. Everyone would be on the line for the pile. These are the views of your party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u16	You have led workers to unemployment, to poverty and to aggregation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u17	I'm over it. You see, you can't stand the time you hear the truth. That's the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u18	Let's have the conversation if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u19	Calm down, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u20	At the pool of the proletariat are your views. That's why they turn your back. But you're doing well. Here is the democracy that your views are heard. That's the beauty of democracy. In democracy - you know - they can also speak to her. In any case, Mr President, I will respond to the issues raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u21	And you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Katsotis, please don't interrupt again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Katsotis, do you know we've been in a pandemic? What you're saying is inaccurate. I have never committed myself for June to giving the outstanding pensions. Throughout my political career and as Minister in 2012-2014 and four and a half years as opposition I never said these inaccurate things. I've always been in a measure, knowing in a responsible way what prevails in e-FOD. And my review of Mrs Ahtsoglu and SYRIZA was just one, that they were lying. The question of outstanding pensions cannot be solved by the traditional procedure. The criticism, Mr President, was that they were mocking the world, secondly, hiding pensions, and thirdly, they did not apply the digital system "ATLAS", which was ready from 2014. So I answer once again through the House: Unfortunately, while we increased by 38.4% the pension allocation from September, which we took up until February on the basis of the e-ECA figures, this effort was broken down under two factors: firstly, we discovered twenty thousand pensions that were not registered - SYRIZA hid them - and secondly, that we fell into the pandemic and employees of e-ECA for whom they are sensitive, you tell me now, Mr Kattotis, that they should be working with a pandemic. That's what you're telling me. That's what you're saying. I mean, two yards and two weights. Listen. Finally July this government and as Minister personally will have the great honour of presenting to the Ministry of Labour the great reform called the digital system "ATLAS". 40% of new pensions will go digital. We're taking a leap in the future. We are changing the history of insurance, and from that point on they are being launched in a timetable, which I have made public by the end of 2021. 80% of pensions will come digital and this pathogen - which I agree with you - will be solved forever. It's not new. It is decades, but we always hear words and blessings. I've had them ready since 2014. Unfortunately, the change of government has stopped them. I come to the answer because the workers, whom I want to talk about, are listening to us. Regarding the issue of the staffing of the structures of e-ECA according to the annual schedule of recruitment of regular staff of the 2020 year, the e-ECA Board of Directors approved at its forty-second meeting on 21-1-2019 the recruitment through ASP of two hundred and ninety people in order to meet the increased needs of the organisation to staff. Indeed, a thousand eight hundred redundancies were launched by SYRIZA. We prevented them. We have not made redundancies by e-FYROM, and today we are launching two hundred and ninety new recruitments. On the one hand, the administration of e-EKA is making an effort to digitalise the organisation with the ultimate aim of creating new possibilities for civil service, extending the use of modern technologies and making use of the interoperability of services, in order to minimise the presence of retired and insured persons in the branches and to avoid their suffering. Organisational integration ensures economies of scale to the operating costs of the organisation, to the exploitation of human resources and all infrastructures. At the same time, integration of the Insurance Database allows digitisation of all social security functions, easy to manage, ensuring more efficient and faster services to citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u24	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u25	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the other hand, the institution of the e-ECA needs experienced and trained staff, which will contribute effectively to speeding up the rate of pensions, one-off and the other, and the settlement of other insurance claims. That is why we are here to look at all the data and to provide a solution to this pathogen always within the framework of the country's financial capabilities, by exploiting this human potential which we respect and which we thank for its contribution to the service. In conclusion, I would like to add just two words: the officials you asked me, which is the issue of the timely question, for over ten years they have been giving their souls and their hearts with inconsistent efforts to serve our country's insurance system of insured persons, pensioners and workers. I recognize their offer, respect their work, understand their anxiety. I thank them in the institutional capacity of the Minister of Labour for their offer all these years. We'll do our best to keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, could I have the floor on a matter, because it gave me something I did not say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u27	Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u28	The JRC never said that workers should be working at the pandemic. The government did not take the appropriate measures to protect them, as it did the health protocols in tourism, and we saw the cases of more than fifty yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u29	Good. We move on to the third with number 6335/8-5-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'We need the relief of our fellow citizens, which are required in insurance funds, so that they are unable to retire'. And this question will be answered by the President-in-Office, Mr Brutsi. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will not go into what you said, because there are some inaccuracies - let me say it - but we have now found here to say that it is all the fault of SYRIZA. I'm up against it. It's like a joke I'll tell you in private. In response to this opportunity, I would like to say to you, Minister, and I think you can find a solution today - that the guides to tourist buses, since we have the opportunity to discuss this a little, Mr President, are today on a tenth day of strike mobilisation. What for? They refuse to sign the collective agreement, even though they do not ask for an increase of EUR 1. They're asking to sign the same contract last year. People want to go and catch the steering wheel ahead and during the tourist season, they refuse workers. I will not say that it was wrong to extend their contract. I think you should speak immediately, even today, Minister - look at it, please - it is a major issue on which you can intervene and give a solution or by extending their contracts for a year, see how we can go below. I repeat, they're on a tenth day of strike, starving people, starving and hungry. They have survived, Minister, with eight and a half hundred in two and a half months. I wanted you to see this personally and give us an answer tomorrow, tomorrow. On the subject now. I, Minister, am more practical and these questions, because I believe that with a proper understanding we can find a solution to really important issues that concern society, especially today, Minister, that the economy of the country is not the best. Through previous legislative initiatives, our fellow citizens with social security debts have been given the opportunity to be subject to regulations and favourable conditions. These people, Minister, could not get any insurance information, were found without health coverage themselves, their family and their children, so that they could not submit a claim for retirement, although they had completed pension years. I do not think I need to list, Minister, and I have to refer to the arrangements of the previous government - and not just of the previous and earlier government. I would like to believe that you, too, agree that the state must ensure that people who cannot objectively have any other income, how much more they may be deprived, Minister, of the right to retire. So I want you to let us know, if you intend, that is why I have said that I may not have a second word, if we find a solution to this issue - to take initiatives in order to have a favourable instalment arrangement for these people's debts. In addition, mention should be made of the problem posed by the conditions of payment of pension payments to debtors - candidates for pensioners, in order to ensure the right to their pension and the limits of debt applicable to each fund. These people, Minister, have completed the necessary pension years. Unfortunately, they are obliged to their funds, so that they are unable to retire. The big problem - you know, Minister, better than I do - is the insured of the OSCE, who, in order to be able to obtain a pension by offsetting or withholding the debt should not exceed EUR 20,000. And you know, Minister, if you're going backwards, you'll see that the insurance contributions paid by the employees at the OAU were too high, so it wouldn't take many years to raise that amount. Otherwise, the insured must pay a lump sum of EUR 20 000 to retire. I think, Minister, that also because of the coronary - we have seen what has happened in the past few months - especially today these people have no chance of finding this money simply to pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u31	You can also fill in your dentistry, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u32	Inform us, then, if you intend to modify the conditions for pension payments to the pensioner's debtors by canceling the debt ceiling to ensure the pension entitlement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vardakis, I recognize your sensitivity that I share. The privilege of sensitivity has no one more than anyone else in this Chamber. But every time someone has the responsibility of steering a ministry, you know that he has the overall responsibility for either the economy, the insurance or the industrial relations. It always has to keep things to the balance and ensure their sustainability. That was a first observation. The second point, Mr Vardakis, is that you come to me a year later, and you ask me a question - well-meaningly - which brings me very simply to say that you were four and a half years old government. Why didn't you do what you're saying now? Why did you not do so on a legislative initiative for four and a half years, what you are asking me today? So, Mr President, I would like to reply to my colleague's question as follows: the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has created a simple, rewarding, quite attractive, but also a sustainable insurance framework for employees, self-employed self-employed professionals and particularly favourable to young people who are insured, with the possibility for the first time of free choice and subject to the insurance category they want. We disconnected it from the income. You remember that toxic and toxic that you supported. All because our main concern is to avoid creating new debts to the insurance funds that happened in the past, resulting in the accumulation of huge debts in our country's individual insurance funds. The consistent fulfilment of the obligations of workers and businesses towards the state is our best and safest driver for the future. That is why we are doing everything necessary to strengthen the income of workers and insured persons so that they can meet their financial obligations towards the state. In order to achieve this objective with Law 4670/2020 - our insurance reform - we redesigned the country's insurance system, which encourages the growth of the economy and guarantees pensions for the next generation. I would remind you that for the first time in Parliament's history, an insurance bill was submitted, accompanied by two studies, the national proportional study showing viability by 2070 and the study of the adequacy of the pensions of the University of Athens. At the same time, it contributes to the creation of a universal public social security system and cultivates insurance, inspires the sense of security and confidence in the insurance system for workers and pensioners, embraces all citizens and satisfys all those who have contributed with many years of work in the insurance system. We also put the element of recompense, that is, justice. As far as the regulation of 20 instalments is concerned, this has not only been abolished - as you complained about in the election campaign that if it became a government it would denounce it and abolish it - it has improved very considerably. In total, debts of EUR 11.6 billion have been regulated, proving the success of the legislative changes we have made and of the amendments that we have predicted and implemented by our Government in this regulation. Nevertheless, I truly respect your interest in our fellow citizens who are in the position that you described in your question. But you may also have the greatest share of responsibility to them because of the overtaxation you have imposed for four and a half years and the extermination contributions you have imposed for four and a half years on certain categories of self-employed and self-employed workers. It was your conscious choice, leading to a weakness of payment and aggression of dues. From the last quarter of 2018 and the first half of 2019 - listen to this, Mr Vardakis - you announced the introduction of a new regulation. Nine months had the promise of a new arrangement, which was finally delayed. You brought it shortly before the elections, resulting in too many workers and businesses that had already regulated their debts, to stop payments under your promise, even the most consistent of them. Because you have created the expectation that the hundred twenty-dollar adjustment will come. I will say this and repeat it in the House for once, with the experience and knowledge I have, Mr President, that the arrangements are not announced, implemented automatically by law, because once all the pencils are announced, even the consistent ones. So today you are claiming that you have created arrangements that relieved debtors, but that you yourself have undermined with your policy, which was a nine-month promise, leading to a dead end to thousands of our fellow citizens. You are also asking us to abolish the ceiling of debt in the laws that you have introduced, thereby circumventing the general principles of our country's socio-security law. In any case, my dear colleague, I shall return more thoroughly to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u35	You both have covered time from dentistry. So please be brief in dentistry. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u36	Minister, I told you I was a little more practical. I don't think you should have referred back to the past. I asked you for something specific. You told me about proportionate studies. Wasn't Lover's insurance analogy? Wasn't the Katrugalo Law analogous? We have established this in the House. I was one of those who had been recommended, if you'd like, and the bill then for the hundred and twenty instalments, so I can tell you a thousand two things. And to tell you from the outset that if I refer to the history, I will tell you that there are five, six, seven regulations: It is L.4321/2015, the setting of the hundred doses that has been extended and by 1110/26-2015, L.4331/2015 as regards the EUR 50,000, which expired on 30 September 2015, L.4469/2017, L.4611/2019. They are laws that regulate these debts. Now, Minister, I said something specific and something substantiated to find a solution to these people. You know, I told you at first to work not only politically but also practically. What are we going to tell this man out, who can't get his pension tomorrow because he owes EUR 22,000? Let me tell you something. I see that total receipts to all operators by L.4611/2019 were EUR 117,079.444 in relation to the regulation of L.4152/2013, which was EUR 76,000. So with this it turns out that these people who entered these arrangements paid and paid consciously what they could pay to get their pension. In other words, there is no other way at this time to get their pension. Minister - and I am closing with this - I would like to ask you to look at this, as you said, in essence, and to see those people who are unable to retire because of these debts. And don't tell me now that these people had the money and they didn't give it, because they know they're never gonna retire. So we need to find a solution, to get these people to their pensions, to increase the limit that they can in this way regulate their debt and get their pensions. You know, the most serious thing is that without pensions, Minister, neither do they nor their families. You understand that. So since your sensitivity is too much, as you said, I want you to give a solution immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vardakis, I did not say that my sensitivity outweighs yours. I said no one here has any more sensitivity than the other. So on this basis, I told you before that you were asking timely questions and claiming - which is legitimate and that is the role of our democracy - and what is the reality. So on the basis of reality, I see a question that is addressed to thousands of our fellow people outside - which I really share - but the question that I raised is this because it is a very serious budgetary issue, because at the end of the day, behind good words and good intentions, someone has to pay. So I ask: why didn't you do it for four and a half years? It's a good look for you. It's not just like that, I rule, and the next day I'm claiming from the next government. I have to accept your question, and I am here and I answer it. But I am asking myself this: Four and a half years, why didn't you give these hundreds of thousands of early pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u39	Eight arrangements, Minister. I don't want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u40	After you come with such a question, and since you are so well informed, why don't you bring me a financial study, so that we can see how much that costs the Greek public, Mr. Vardakis, and if there is any possibility of doing so? Because I, with my knowledge of the finances, tell you today that if we disrupt the budgetary line of the national analogy study I have brought here in the House with an insurance bill, for the first time in Parliament's history, we will again find ourselves in difficult situations with regard to insurance. Today, pensions are guaranteed and farmers, self-employed and employees can sleep quietly that they will receive their pension. However, we must not disrupt the budgetary balance. Everyone's pensions are guaranteed and guaranteed. But be careful. You told me about the proportional studies. I will repeat, for once and for all, that there has never been an adequate, complete study of all the data, because there was no "HLIOS".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u41	But there has not been complete, and not at all, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u42	Don't interrupt, please. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u43	‘HLIOS’ was created in Greece, the Ministry of Labour, on 1 June 2013. The first proportional study that has been carried out was the measurement of the Law of Loverdos - Koutrumani for my days as Minister of State, deceased. I submitted Greece's first proportional study, and the Katrugalou law tabled a deferred study. The first proportional study submitted by insurance reform, the one we brought to the House in February, was the one I tell you about, the law of our Government. Here, Mr Vardakis, I have to tell you that you have complained that we will abolish the regulation of 20 instalments. We kept her and made her better. I would remind you of the removal of the income criteria for debts of up to EUR 20,000 - we put it, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis - on the regulation of tax debts. Secondly, the proportional extension of the number of doses and to legal persons - remember that you had ruled out it by a class perception? - in relation to natural persons, as regards tax debts. Thirdly, the 5% reduction to 3% of the exact rate of regulation. I now come to what you told me the arrangements were reached. Unfortunately, the regulations have not succeeded and this is a matter which concerns us all. Listen! I have recorded here - and I have said in the election - that the concrete arrangement you had brought, Mr Vardakis, in 2015 - do you remember the unfamiliar regulation of the hundreds of twenty-five instalments? - It introduced that only ten thousand five hundred seventy people and 7 million euros should be arranged. That was the complete failure of the arrangement. That is why the arrangements must be accompanied by measures which do not increase the conditions for creating a new deadline. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I come to the reduction of taxes and the reduction of contributions. In any case, we are making every effort to ease the burden of the households, the insured and the retired. Yesterday we gave more than thirty-five thousand supplementary pensions, the ones you cut by the Katorugalou law and were judged to be unconstitutional and put into our own law. Two hundred and thirty-five thousand pensioners retrospectively took eight months on 9 July yesterday, on the basis of the anti-constitutional Katrugalos law, which you celebrated here. We've done it. This guaranteed payment will continue with a timetable for the accuracy of our insurance reform, as will the new main pension, as will be paid for by the retrospective 12 months in the main pensions, and at the end of the month, for the first time in the history of insurance, basic pensions and supplementary pensions will be paid together. There will be a million two hundred and fifty thousand transactions smaller.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u44	Please, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u45	In July and the National Insurance Fund, which you delivered to us without a proportionate study and was ready to explode, as was the public fund of the insurance company and the National Bank. From a parliamentary step we balanced it in a proportionate study and LEPETE is now sustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u46	But, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u47	I think this has been exhausted, Mr President. This is the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. A particular conversation can be caused, if you like. We move to the second with number 900/6-7-2020 on the second question of the second question of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Extension of all collective labour agreements". Mr Brutsi will answer that question as well. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. It is serious that we are forced to force the ministers to come here, under parliamentary control, because really, through this democratic process, solutions can be found. Therefore, it is also necessary for the ministers to work out and study the issues that we are putting them in, and I believe that this will make sense to parliamentary democracy as well. Minister, the question of collective agreements is not an isolated issue, which concerns only the workers. Collective labour agreements are the protection of labour rights, particularly in times of crisis. What is going to happen - it has already begun to happen - with the recession, of course, is to increase unemployment, the problem of the operation of many activities and businesses, and hence job losses. The big issue, which is about restarting the economy and guaranteeing workers' rights, can, by arm and institution, have a soft development so that the restoration of working rights is easy and possible, especially possible. So we have contracts that ended in the pandemic. We have collective agreements locally. As an example, I mention the local collective labour contract of tourist bus drivers and employers in Heraklion Crete and, of course, the corresponding contract in Rhodes. So we have two contracts that ended in the coronary pandemic. While everything was extended into the koruna pandemic, from public obligations to public authorities, to deadlines, until applicable provisions on any matter, unfortunately, there was no extension of the validity of collective agreements. I think there should be a universal extension, corresponding to the time when the restrictive measures were in force. Of course, at the request of interested parties, there is also an extension for specific contracts for more time. I think it goes without saying that all the conventions, which ended in the pandemic, should have been extended up to 30-9-2020. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you too, Mr Kegeroglu, for keeping time compared with the previous ones. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Mr Kegeroglu for this timely question. I will respond monologuely and explain why. What you're saying is not done, Mr. Kegeroglu. They are directly violating free collective bargaining, something we believe, which we support, and this undermines free collective bargaining, which is a cornerstone of our democracy. As regards the first question you raise about the extension of the validity of all TSEs, Collective Work Agreements, you are very well aware that the institutional framework for collective bargaining and the conclusion of sectoral and operational collective labour agreements is valid. Mr President, Mr Secretary of Parliament, it has been valid for many years, based on Law 1876/1990. In addition, you know that we made the intervention in the middle of the pandemic and gave it - you also mentioned it - an additional three-month extension until 30 June of the validity of the TSE regulations, Collective Work Agreements, the quarterly extension of which ended on 29 February 2020, up to 30 April 2020. We did this because we wanted to see a pandemic - that was the real interest and sensitivity we have shown - to protect workers from the consequences of the pandemic, but within the time period when the pandemic was in our country and the lockdown. However, because you call for the extension of all the collective agreements to be concluded, I would like to inform the House of the following. According to the data held at the Directorate responsible of the Ministry of Labour, which no one can dispute at the moment, nineteen sectoral collective agreements are in force, nine homogeneous, one arbitral decision, a total of twenty-nine. None of the existing twenty-nine collective labour agreements are in the quarter of its extension. Secondly, we have four hundred working collective agreements, of which fifty-two are in the quarter of the extension. This means that from the twenty-nine current sectoral and homogeneous TSEs, collective labour contracts, the sixteen ends on 31-12-2020, the ten ends in 2021 and 2022 and the five collective labour agreements end in August and September 2020. As you know, always in accordance with the applicable legislation on collective bargaining, which expires on the regulatory conditions, they remain in force for a period of three months from the end of their complaint. Consequently, the sixteen collective labour agreements, which expire at the end of the year, will have a three-month extension up to March 2021. The other 10 collective labour agreements, due to expire in 2021 and 2022, are out of scope of our debate and are not affected, while the five contracts ending in August and September 2020 will have a three-month extension, in accordance with the legislation. Therefore, during this period the social partners in our country - workers and employers - have the opportunity and the opportunity to conclude a new collective labour contract. I shall reply to dentistry and make Mr Kegeroglou's question more specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u51	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u52	Obviously, there was no answer. There was a reference to the institutional framework in force. I will do the trouble of repeating, because the Minister did not listen throughout the first half of the year. You have noticed that, Mr President. As usual, he doesn't listen to my question. So the question is specific. All contracts concluded in the pandemic need to be extended from the end of the pandemic for as long as the pandemic and the restrictive measures lasted. So you're saying three. Of course, three months. Not three months regardless of when it expired, i.e. until the sixth, as you said, but three months from their end. This could have been a partial solution. Of course, it does not solve the problems, but at least it gives the social partners the right to negotiate. When could they negotiate? Inside the pandemic, where there wasn't even the possibility of contact? Immediately afterwards, where the measures have been relaxed, but the agony of all the social partners has been how they will be integrated into support measures and, of course, have they not had the opportunity and the time, if you like, to participate in the process of collective bargaining, where of course there is a need for peace, which will not be affected by the extraordinary situation? It is a measure provided for under the law, it is within your responsibilities and should, at least by 30 September, give this extension to all contracts. However, we have a specific example, which I mentioned to you. It expires on March 30th, a pandemic is the collective labour contract of tourist bus drivers with tourist agencies and owners. Should you not grant a three-month extension from both the three-month extension and then re-energy applies? Isn't that a logical order of things? That's what we're asking you. The problem of mobilisation is not caused by yesterday's law. It is the indifference that makes decisions, the inertia of taking decisions, the inertia of giving solutions, which concerns all the ministries and, of course, what I ask you about your Ministry. So you said to George to our MEP, where we ask why you do not extend the food contract, where we ask why you do not extend the local sectoral contract of the hotel officials of Heraklion, because you do not extend the local branch contract of the hotel officials in Rhodes, the following: 'Your question, Mr. MEP'. Except you didn't beat him. You fought him for asking you a bad question. You are also saying: 'In February the Higher Labour Council will meet in order to give its opinion and then take decisions'. I'll submit it to the Minutes. This is your answer to a timely question. He never met the Supreme Labour Council. He hasn't met a year now, you're in the Ministry of Labour's political leadership. Our question is: why are you doing this? Why don't you make decisions and despite the Council's opinion, which allows you to do so? Because this decision of the Higher Labour Council is helpful. But I want you to tell me about this. All of this, I understand that they're not very interested in you, they're not in your personal interests. I do not know what to say anymore about this indifference I see. I would particularly like to see the collective agreements concluded during the pandemic and the measures concluded, to tell me how and how you will extend them for as long as the restrictive measures lasted. This is your obligation, it is not your pleasure, and you must immediately do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Kegeroglu, it is challenge and insult to talk to us about inertia and indifference. You know very well that our efforts are obscure and continuous. Especially the Ministry of Labour, has fought the pandemic period with unprecedented initiatives, legislative procedures, legislative acts, dozens of unprecedented ministerial decisions to support workers and businesses. This was done by the Ministry of Labour and the Government collectively and overall. So you forsake us for inertia and indifference? At the same time, Mr Kegeroglu, you come here and I really don't get you anywhere, except that your party has opinions, which are timid and do not go hand in hand with the whole of your parliamentary group. Your problem is these internal issues you have, but I would like to ask you to leave me here, as a government, many times I come and answer to you, to respect collective autonomy, that is to say, the agreement on the resolution of the critical labour issues between the social partners, workers and employers. This is the key, under Law 1876/1990. That's a lot of times you're urging me to do. Today, what are you telling me about your question? To intervene in collective autonomy and to bring about by law the extension of collective agreements, which is contrary to what you are saying to me with other questions. Find out what you think and come here to make a substantial, real, responsible discussion. I have just described them in the register of collective agreements, sectoral agreements and even-professionals. It's written in the Minutes, Mr. President. I mentioned what there are today in Greece, how many have been extended, who are closed in 2021, in 2022, and I said that there is no danger of anyone, except one, which concerns Mr Kegeroglu, reasonably as a Member of Heraklion Law, because that is all. I understand, because of the need for relations with the local community, that Mr Kegeroglu should come here and talk about the collective contract of the tourist bus drivers of Crete. Because, as I understand it, this question was raised on the occasion of the termination of the collective agreement and on political grounds for the identification of Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u55	Inside the pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u56	However, our basic principle is that, Mr Kegeroglu, we respect the collective autonomy of the social partners in the conduct of collective bargaining and the conclusion of collective agreements of employment, as provided for by Law 1876/1990. Is it a fundamental law that we must respect with delight and serve? It is. What are you telling me today? Intervening in a collective contract of employment, overcoming the social partners. It is likely that workers will also be affected by my own intervention because a new framework can be created much more favourable to them. How do you know that? Why not leave the social partners on the basis of our country's fundamental law of collective autonomy, to decide on employers and workers? Mr President, the position of the Ministry of Labour is that it is firmly geared towards defending the collective autonomy of collective agreements, as they form between the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u57	The second question under number 6706/21-5-2020 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglu Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food will now be discussed, on the subject: 'Special aid due to coronary payments to all farmers and especially traditional inclusive payments'. Mr. Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Makis Vorides. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I mention a specific issue with my question, which is admittedly difficult to deal with. With political will, however, also with work which the Ministry and the respective organizations can do, can be solved and in the interests of productivity, producers and, of course, of the economy. It concerns the problem of the support of traditional farmers, who, through the crafts sector, produce their products and have them either on the local market, through self-consuming operations or in other ways. They are normal producers who do not receive subsidies, associated aid and have been excluded from the aid granted because of the fact that they are not in the traditional system of farmers. I recognise the problem that there is that, in other words, it is not in the traditional system of aid and subsidies for farmers, but I think that we should also look at it as a positive one. They are the people who produce without subsidies basically. They are the people who need to be strengthened in their small activity. Obviously, it is not about large activities. It concerns much smaller producers who, as I have said, are trying to process and distribute the final product. I would therefore like you first to see how we can record who these people are, what activity they are doing and how we will strengthen them because of the pressure they have had from the coronary, but also because they do not receive any associated aid for all years. And it's not just about this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Mr. Kegeroglu only took a minute and a half. I hope you imitate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. In order to monitor perhaps some who are not very familiar with the issue of ovine and caprine farming and the issues of aid, I should like to reflect very quickly on what is the point raised by the honourable Member's question. It was decided to aid the ovine and caprine animals for the damage they suffered to lose income because of measures to deal with the pandemic, especially in the Easter period. That decision was linked to the following condition: the ovine and caprine farmers must have delivered a certain quantity of milk. This condition has been laid down - and that is why the honourable Member refers to the concept of related aid - because the delivery of milk is also one of the conditions laid down in order to obtain coupled aid for sheep and goat farmers. This condition was also laid down, this condition, and in order to receive the special aid in the context of dealing with the consequences of the coronary. He says in his question that there is a certain category of ovine and caprine animals which does not deliver milk. As it is formulated and referred to orally, they are essentially households and do not receive the associated aid. As they do not deliver milk to cheeseries, dairy plants or to cheese plants for this reason, they are excluded from the aid. I have described all of this in order to understand the issue raised by my colleague. And I'm coming to the answer. The first issue I would like to raise, Mr Colleague, is the following: those who are householders, namely farmers with vertically integrated livestock milk processing units and farmers who are part of the central electronic register, who themselves produce and dispose of their milk products, are receiving associated aid and will also receive this aid. So here's no problem. I'm telling you, to know that we're not talking about that, we're not talking about the crafts. This is covered by the aid we have shaped. But where has a problem arisen? I know that my colleague is from Crete, where we have dealt with this issue, as in some other regions. So the problem is that we have had it on small islands as a matter of urgency. This has been covered, because in our decision we exempted from this condition the small islands. And there is indeed in some remote mountain areas, which seem to be not included in our decision. I will stop here, because I have a view of how this can be dealt with at three minutes, I will give the honourable Member the opportunity to answer and I will come back to the question of how this specific problem is dealt with. From the prototype let it be kept that those who are enrolled in the crafts and are registered in the central register are covered by the decision that we have made and for them there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u61	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u62	Minister, at least we agree with you and we identify the problem. Because, as you have already seen, Mr Brutsi and Mr Brutsi are not even able to reach an agreement on the problem, not on its solution. So I come here and say that it is really the way you have said it, and as I have said it. You made an interpretation. My view is that, in fact, your level of law cannot make this kind of interpretation of a ministerial decision. So it was a service suggestion that you obviously accepted. The requirements of the Constitution for special care for the islands and mountain regions have been interpreted by decision as caring for the small islands only. You said, in other words, that Lesvos, the President-in-Office, Crete, but also the mountainous remote areas, are excluded from your decision, not complying with the Constitution. That's what you said. So what I'm asking is specific. First of all, the amendment of the decision. The exceptions, which have rightly been introduced for small islands, should apply to all islands and all mountainous regions, as defined in the Constitution. To define which areas are mountainous, since livestock is and is concerned with mountain, remote areas. It applies, if you put the mountainous areas, and for Crete, regardless of whether you consider it a large island - the problems of islands are the same - and also applies to Lesvos, it applies to all islands. That is the first point I ask you to make, as a request from those people who are in production in difficult conditions, in more difficult circumstances if you like. And of course, let us see a broader plan of how these very small producers will be integrated into the system - which is very well operated at the Ministry - in the electronic register of producers, scientists, etc. They could perhaps change the conditions. I have not studied in detail how to get into the register, but I suppose it is possible that a reform is needed so that these people may be able to join and therefore there is no need for specific regulation. In this sense, Minister, I think you have a job in the next few days - if you have the will - to resolve this serious issue. We're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u64	I would like to clarify this: in some cases, it may not be clear why, for example, we are making the delivery of milk conditional. We put it because it is a way - let me say - of effective control that there is - not only a statement, but, in fact, a production. One sheep farmer has two - let me say it - parts of income. One concerns the delivery and marketing of milk and the other concerns the delivery and marketing of meat. It is rare - I speak in relation to the number of ovine and caprine animals - where one does not deliver any milk and only makes meat. They are rare and there must be special reasons. When we exempted the small islands, we exempted them from the fact that there are cheese shops in these islands, i.e. if there is a possibility of delivering milk. Why? Because by handing milk - I say again - we have the image of real production. This is also the philosophy of the measure of linked aid, but also of the aid we now give for the coronary. However, it has been pointed out that some cases - I say again - do not concern the crafts sector because they are integrated - may be sheep and goat farmers who, because of their conditions of production, do not deliver any milk at all. I have said this: we will implement the measure as it stands, as is the decision. Then we will see how many people received aid and we will see, by cross-checking information, whether there are cases of ovine and caprine animals who have delivered meat - that is, have slaughtered - and have not delivered milk and have not been strengthened. That is where we will come to make a further speech. However, this will be the case after completion after the aid measure has been 'turned'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u65	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u66	Look, Mr. Squirrel is here. Once we speed up the process of aid and approval by the General Accounting Office and the Ministry of Finance, then the measure, as you know in procedural terms, will go for approval to the European Commission, and we believe that we will soon have completed the process of aid. Then we'll have this intersection, to see what cases, what number and what amounts he's talking about. Mr Colleague, I have had the pleasure of now finding myself in Mylopotamos, because of a personal pleasing commitment to mylopotamos, to speak there with the sheep and goat farmers, to raise these issues. We'll examine them. But we'll take it the way I told you. We will first end with the aid and the measure as it stands and then we will have a cross-check, to see what are the cases that are left out, namely cases that have given up meat during Easter, but have not been delivered because of special milk conditions and have therefore not been included in the measure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u67	I would like to point out that there is another category that, due to circumstances, did not contribute to the milking and did not go especially far this year. There's this charge, too. It's not just those who delivered meat. I have taken advantage of the change in the Bureau to make this accusation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u68	To make tritology! We will now proceed to the fourth with number 7075/4-6-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking immediate problems of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA)". Mr Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you should know that most of your colleagues in the various ministries are invoking you for not solving problems that concern them. Sometimes I am right and sometimes unjust to point out, because it is often only up to their own will. In this regard, we have the debate on a question which concerns your desire exclusively. So I think you don't invoke another ministry. It concerns the NSAs, the Hellenic Defence Systems, which in 2013-2014 were then integrated into a resolution plan. The reform plan Mr.Mitsotakis had was to close the NSAs and accused Mrs. Gennamas of not implementing the creditors' reform plan. In fact he said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no. And that's good for her to say. What did he do next? The resolution plan has been prepared, the partners have accepted it and it has been implemented. Unfortunately, when the government changes in Greece, and not only when the government changes, the ministers change many times - the policies change. The resolution has been abandoned and we have problems today. The project needs to be updated. I'm sure it can't apply what they've been working on at the time. However, there are also specific problems that can be solved immediately. One issue that I have asked you and have not answered, is the issue of Iraq's payments to the NSAs, about 100 million dollars, which the Ministry of Finance takes, withholds them and for which we have made a proposal, through a tripartite agreement - RAS, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Finance - to implement a armament programme from the NSAs, with this money, without additional funding, to implement one of the armaments programmes. I could name, I could suggest. But it's not your responsibility, and I don't. It is your responsibility, however, to say: 'Yes, we consent to this regulation'. The second issue concerning NSAs is the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work, which has been given since 2017 or 2018, if I'm not mistaken, under the responsibility of the administration. It was not legislated by the previous government, you have not even legislated it to date. There is, therefore, an pending situation where administrations are at risk of being charged with these acts, which are, however, due to the workers. So my question is this: I brought the amendment to the House the other day. We testified it and kept it in mind. We didn't accept it. What do you have in mind on this matter? How are you gonna solve this? However, the management of the NSAs, which we have visited, is in agreement with the wording of our amendment and I believe that, since you have not accepted ours, you must bring it as a government. In any case, we said that it could continue to receive the allowance until the outcome of the committee set up by the relevant law on who will be integrated and how it will be granted. It is a serious issue for the NSAs, which we consider, not for any other reason, but because this dynamic operation of the defence industry is at risk because no new contracts and new programmes are concluded in 2021. And then, of course, they will very easily say that yes, they will shut down, since they have no work. But if the conditions are not met to conclude contracts either with the Ministry of National Defence or with international customers from the international market, how will this be done? In the meantime, it has enormous potential and, meanwhile, the Ministry of Defence has huge deficiencies. I will only mention one because it has been made public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u70	And finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u71	And I'm finishing up. One, because it's been made public. They're the Navy missiles for exercises. Because he has no missiles for training the Navy, he uses those that are battle. It can, therefore, be produced without a tender without a procedure under the Ministry's contract with the NSAs. The law allows it. That's not happening either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u73	The issue of the IRAs and IRAs, to begin with, Mr Papoutsis, is a matter that has a long history. During the period 2014-2018, the NSAs have taken out of the state budget over 40 million and are now basically in debt to the state, several dozen million, I think, more than 50. Therefore, the issue of IRAK, which is actually 2 million every six months, has long been paid to NSAs, through these lasting grants, either for earned earnings paid by the Ministry of Finance, either to pay off PPC, or for dues. From that point on, the new administration is making an effort. He brought after nine years and some first little contracts from abroad. Cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should continue, as far as possible, through the previous governments' commitments to "walk" this company. We must realise that we are at a time when there is a very deep recession in the economy. The private sector is suffering enormous blows. Margins for wages and other benefits in the public sector, which have not faced any reduction at this time, are not easy to obtain. I would say to you that they do not exist, because we are at a time when we are forced to make a serious deficit and we must be careful about the markets and about the partners, so that we can get through this period, which will last for several months, because the economy, if the period is not over and tourism, where we have a recession of at least 7 billion in this quarter of July - September, will not begin to come out of the recession. Also, the coronary case isn't over either. I would therefore ask both the National Representation and the Members, each individually, to realise the real financial situation we face as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. You appealed to me, but you kindly appealed to everyone. I am aware, Minister, that NSAs and ODAs have a potential - of course based on public character, which must be maintained - to open their wings and with elements of competitiveness on the international market. This is the only possibility we have. This means a strategic development plan for the defence industry, which we expect from your government. What does that mean? That workers also have such a status, which says that they are certainly working in a public body that is subject to wages in the single wage market and the rest, but at the same time they are workers in a body seeking, by strengthening their competitiveness on the international markets, the advantage that will make it a competent international player. What does that mean? That they should also be able to work on a second shift, they should be able to work with a firm's viability and boost competitiveness, which is not always or never, from what has been proved by the operation, low wages. It is not possible for ODA today to have so much work back and not to be given the opportunity to work a second shift. You only tell her from the Treasury that two euros an hour will work two or three hours. Wrong. They expect transport, C-130, to be repaired and maintained, and this is not because of bureaucracy. You'll have to change it. The same kind of asthma maintained the cananders. I'm coming to NSA. If there are no new contracts, how will the operation work? How will she meet her obligations? You'll tell me: We've put an administration in, we let them in their luck find new markets. No, that's not how it works. There must be the strategy that I have told you, which we are of course waiting for, as far as we are concerned, for the conditions to be met. And we're starting at the elementary. First elementary: unhealthy work allowance. It's done, it's not budget expenditure. It's being paid right now. What are you saying? I say to you: institutionalize it, because it is paid, so that the auditors do not go after the administration. And the administration is doing nothing but answering the auditors. In other words, it deals with a bureaucratic process rather than with finding markets. Call her, tell me if she has one euro extra cost. Not even 1 euro. What financial costs did you tell me? Not even 1 euro. It's being paid right now. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Secondly, for workers with collective agreements, it is not just wages, it is also institutional. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance returned as unacceptable the operational collective agreement of the company "Greek Defensive Greek Systems" with the administration. You can't do that. Of course, this has happened on a previous government, but I see a continuation of the state here, in this case, and you are not entitled to say: since the previous government has done so, which is also a charitable one, why should we not do so? No, Minister, collective labour contracts, as provided by law. I present to you the demands of unions of workers in the "Greek Defence Systems", in the NSAs, and those who work here in Athens and those who work in Agios, but it is a matter of concern to the Ministry of Defence for the rest of the programs of the Ministry of Defence. But I am tabling them to you, like the amendment to which I have referred, to see that these are two - three institutional issues, which will give them safety and do not do so. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since the Minister is here, eleven employees were fired from the administration of the previous government. I am not saying from the previous government, but from the administration designated by the previous government. And I say it because he had been designated by comrade Panos Kammenos for that. No reason, eleven parties, political dismissals and you did nothing. I mean, they're waiting for the courts. Really? Political persecution and waiting for the courts? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allowances for unhealthy work and collective agreements, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I understand that. But I didn't get into the SYRIZA government, I stopped at Panos Kammenos, so you wouldn't interrupt me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u78	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u79	I would like us to take into account all this equation, the expenditure that the State budget for NSAs has done over time. From 2004 to 2020, they have been granted in the form of debt capitalisation of EUR 1,125,000 and in the form of direct grants of EUR 93,000. We are talking about huge sums invested by the taxpayer. It is clear from the debate that this investment has not been achieved. On the contrary, it has been added to the heavy debts, which we have to pay before us. Many times people do not realize what it means to 1 billion, but 1 billion means taxes of hundreds of thousands of workers for a long time. To think about what we're paying for taxes in this country. Mr Kegeroglu is right that it is really very difficult to combine public accounting and the way in which he operates in relation to workers in a purely productive process. Indeed, ODA has to work on many shifts. You can't have a factory and wait for it to be an internationally competitive factory and work on a shift. Because if he works on a shift when others work on three and has big capital equipment, as the defence industries obviously have, it is absolutely impossible to depreciate her capital equipment. So we really need to look for a way that these industries are national, because there are special conditions in defence industries that require a national dimension, but also operate on private economic criteria. This also requires the employee's contribution. But it also requires something else: to come out of the general government. This is a very difficult exercise. Otherwise, we need to find a special regime in the defence industries that allows for a flexible work within a general government. It's a difficult exercise. Until now, no one has solved it. I believe that without the presence of private investors contributing to these industries, it is very difficult for the public itself to achieve private economic criteria in its own industries. Unfortunately and internationally, this has proved very difficult. The government will come back with the planning for the defence industries. It's not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u80	You're saying privatization. There's nothing else you can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u81	I say that we need to set private economic criteria, because with public accounting, as is the rules of the single wage, it is very difficult for these industries to operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u82	He can do it in public too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u83	Good. Of course, I cannot intervene as the Bureau. Just, Minister, check the evidence they give you. Generally, it's right. But you need to know that NSAs have been divided into civil RUs and military. So what the state budget gave was about PSU policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u84	Both.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u85	Well, I can ask a question myself and we can talk about it again. We continue with the fifth with number 904/6-7-2020 in time question by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Television Megalopolis". The question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Thomas. You have the floor, Mr Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u86	Minister, last week Mr. Hatzidakis was here and you were here a long time ago. We're talking about Megalopolis, defoliation, air conditioning. So, what's remote heating? It is connected to one of the lignite plants and gives almost free heating to half the inhabitants of Megalopolis. There was in the NSRF, in which in 2014 as State Secretary and as PASOK-New Democracy coexisted this project. It's been four years with SYRIZA and he didn't incorporate it. You came, you signed it, and after six months, you replied. And today you say we'll bring natural gas to Megalopolis. We told the Minister that the cost of district heating would rise by 200%, I mean in relation to natural gas. I have, if you want, to testify to you, too. But here, Minister, do you know why the cost of district heating will be increased? Because there is a private person, there is a memorandum of cooperation. I'll testify. Minister, there isn't what's going on. You privately sign a contract for the management, distribution and the municipality, of course, listen, with a private company, that is to say, DESFA and PPC by order. Of course, PPC appoints him. You sign with a private company and, in fact, this company filed an application to obtain a distribution licence one day after the signature of the memorandum. What's that? Some other gobbler? So, without any competitive procedure, is the government, the mayor and the individual, and because SYRIZA is not speaking, because he is a friendly businessman to them, are you coming and sign up to a company that is not licensed and presents permission to RAE one day after my question? But good, Minister. And, of course, Mr Hatzidakis didn't come today because he couldn't. How about Mr. Hatzidakis today? He sent you, of course. What's he gonna do? That's how it's done with the State Secretarys, mostly. There is, however, a question here. How is the company that is signed a Memorandum between TESC, a private person without any competitive procedure, Mr President, to submit a request to RAE for distribution? You want to search a bank to see if he's deposited a loan with the memorandum? What did the gorgeous guy do? Don't we learn from our mistakes? Yes, Minister, it will increase the cost in Megalopolis by 200% and put it in. What are you going to do about all this? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u88	Good morning. Mr. Constantinople, thank you for the question. You are watching this closely, as you have said. Almost every two weeks is here either the Minister or I and I think that because you are watching often, I am surprised at the questions you are asking today. I want to start by saying that we have dealt with this problem of air heating methodically and with full transparency. We are committed to the objective of liberation and with the priority of district heating in both western Macedonia and Megalopolis. In western Macedonia, where district heating needs to continue, and where the people do not want to heat and choose a more favourable way for them, such as in Florina and Megalopolis, we will proceed with them. The Coordinating Committee has met five times, and all these times it has dealt with this issue. I would first like to say that this memorandum of cooperation has not yet been signed by all the signatories. It's something that the Ministry of Energy has not signed. It's something that private companies have signed. It has been signed by the "Televignette Megalopolis SA", PPC, DESFA, the Municipality of Megalopolis - which has not yet signed it and will sign it in the next few days - the "EDIL Technical Industrial". It is not a signatory to the Ministry, it is something that is for signature and once it has been signed, we will submit it in the Minutes. There is no problem of tabling it, but once it has been signed, because we cannot table a document which has not yet been signed. Secondly, you raise the issue of individuals. Yes, they are private companies that have signed this document, as will the TEN. All gas distribution companies will be private from time to time. The question of 'private - public' therefore has no difference in this regard. And as they have the right to other companies, according to the law existing by the previous government - and in force in this part of the present government - they have the right to apply for a gas distribution network where there is no authorisation already. In the Megalopolis there was no one licensed to make a gas distribution network. Therefore, everyone can submit an application to make a natural gas distribution network. They submit this application to the Energy Regulatory Authority, which decides whether each company applying - whether it is the TENA or another company - meets the conditions for obtaining the licence. It is nothing different in this part than it has been in place for many years and in other cities. Applications have been filed in other cities throughout Greece on this subject. So, with regard to the costs, I will submit in the minutes the answer that PPC has given to you, Mr Constantinople, which explains exactly the cost that there is, that is, the difference between the costs to its client, the private person in Megalopoli, whether there is still a gas heating or whether there is any gas. This study and PPC document shows that it is cheaper to connect natural gas homes. It should be noted in this memorandum of cooperation that the current users of district heating - as you rightly said - are 50% of the inhabitants - and even new consumers who were not connected to district heating will be charged with connection charges from any point of the network and if they are required to connect them. Therefore, this solution promoted by the municipality, which intends to sign up to the Memorandum of Understanding, will create conditions so that there is no additional burden for today's users or for future users. PPC's memorandum clearly shows that it is much more economic - because in your question you referred to costs - that the city of Megalopolis proceed with natural gas than that of investments, which are multiples of what are needed, in order to continue the district heating and the possible connection of heating to unit 5. Furthermore, PPC's document clearly shows that in addition to the lower cost of natural gas, the continued supply of thermal energy through natural gas is ensured and all the advantages of the individual gas supply in relation to district heating alone. With natural gas, the consumer has gas in his home all year round to cook, heat the water, while district heating only works in the winter months. I therefore put forward the document which gives all the information which clearly shows why it is much cheaper, much more economical, according to PPC, direct gas. Secondly, it proves that it is much more certain for people to warm up and use natural gas for other reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u89	Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u90	Last week my Minister said not that natural gas is cheaper, but that unit 5 will not work all the time. However, because, Minister, this matter will not only be left here, I am tabling in the Minutes how Unit 5 operates. He hasn't stopped one day. But we'll see about it along the way. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Listen, Minister, I'll tell you something now because I don't understand this. I remind you of a name: Governments when they make 'Greeks' also assume responsibility. But, of course, the privates will. But are we making a memorial with the privateer before and then we're going to make a competitive process? What liberals are you? We said to be centre-left in the crisis, but not to decide before the private with a memorandum, which will also sign the Ministry! That's very important!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u91	He won't sign...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u92	Is the president of PPC signed at this stage without asking you the president of DESFA? Do you know what you're writing in Article 5 of the memorandum? I'll tell you! You say that 2022 will be ready for the networks from 'EDIL'! What's going on here? What do you trust in a company that doesn't even have the permission? We, Minister, will put a question immediately to the Commissioner responsible, the Competition Committee, for justice if necessary. We will defend by all means the citizens of Megalopolis who, after so many years of supporting with their lives the country's energy, you come today and sign this memorandum before you even make a decision. We'll see about the cost. We have a study of what we will give you and come back. Next week we will be here again and we will continue every week to be here so that everyone will understand that this process - and it will increase costs - is done with the knowledge of all the factors and has a name. I put this particular company's request to the RAE, which took place one day later. But you didn't tell them to do it twenty days earlier, since you're writing that 2022 the networks will be ready? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, as I have said, in understanding your position - the Minister - the State Secretary - I ask you to stop this process, not for us. To get to this level and come here - you know me, you know me - I wouldn't do it like that. There's a real problem. There's a lot of cost that you'll find in front of you. There are opaque procedures. Don't do it, Minister. Don't do it. Don't let that happen. Get a competitive process out. Don't see what happened in previous years and you're on the same road. I'm sure you'll think about it and make a competitive process and, of course, the individuals will come. Even if one doesn't come and come, you'll have your forehead clean that you've done a process. We know what's going on, but don't let these things happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Do what you plan to do. There's nothing illegal. There's nothing the Ministry has done. As you can see, it is an initiative among the authorities involved in decisions to create a distribution network. It does not involve the Ministry, but we think that the entire procedure envisaged has been followed. Gas distribution networks are made by companies authorised to manufacture gas distribution in this case. Right now we need to know two things. The memorandum has not yet been signed. Secondly, we need to know that the memorandum, anyway, only applies if the necessary resources are found from the ESDP. The memorandum and, more generally, the work of converting district heating to natural gas in Megalopolis depends on integration into the NRP, as has been committed to other projects in the Peloponnese. For all the projects in the Peloponnese, there is a race of the region to be able to integrate the projects by September, so that either the TEN or other private individuals can make these projects within the timeframe set by the current NSRF. As you know very well, because you are following the subject, the natural gas networks will not be eligible expenditure in the new ESDP that will run in 2021-2027. It is eligible expenditure only in this ESRB, so all money should be paid by 31-12-2023. There must be a commitment by the end of 2021. This is the struggle by the regions and the government, so that these projects, whether they are in Megalopolis or throughout Greece - because with the TEN and other regions we have the same problem - there is the necessary planning to integrate these projects so that they can be implemented with the money of this NSRF. I personally have taken initiatives with eight other ministers from other European countries to be able to extend the funding of these projects. At the moment, the European Council and the European Parliament have not accepted this request. So we are struggling so that these projects can be implemented quickly. The dates shall be laid down by the procedures and financing of the ESRB. I would also like to say that the whole process of a fair transition to Megalopolis is being monitored by a local committee for the liberation of Megalopolis, which is preparing a local master plan and will be buttoned in the Just Development Transfer Plan, which is being carried out under the coordination of Mr Mousouroulis. This committee includes the Regional Mayor, the Mayor of Megalopoli, the Development Arcadia S.A., the University of Peloponnese, all local actors. On this subject of heating, we have proved, either in western Macedonia or in Megalopoli, that we are following what is an interest in local society, what the local society wants. In every local society we have made different choices according to the way they want to go. The way local societies go forward is the best way of doing things every time according to the circumstances. The Government takes all necessary steps to ensure that, where necessary, either in the Megalopolitan or elsewhere, the IPCC opens up the high-pressure gas network in the areas concerned and that the projects are auctioned in accordance with the ESRB procedures. Of course it will have absolute transparency, because these projects will be financed by the ESRB. They will therefore have all the transparency that is needed and necessary under Community procedures. Secondly, I would also like to submit to the Minutes the allocation of resources that exists in all the Regional Units on the basis of the frugalisation and the resources that we have at this time allocated for the various studies by regional unit and by municipality, from the resources of the 131 million that we shared in this government to move forward and mature the projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. The Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Styliani Mendus, will answer the fourth question, number 880/30-6-2020, on the second question of the Second Senate of the Eastern Attica of Meratia, Mr. Maria Apatzidis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Working in the State Awards of Literature". Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 26 June 2020 an open letter of thirty magazines, foundations and literary associations that raise the issue of theft in Greece was published. The result was two recent events: The first is the author's article that was placed in the pan-Hellenic exams and proved to be the result of theft and the second is the award of the State Poetry Award to a writer who has also been well accused as a logo. Generally speaking, however, the problem of censorship has taken enormous proportions in Greece because of its provoking impunity, through the lack of clear legal provision for it, through the abuse of its sometimes inadequately clear definition of regulations, through systematic overlapping, through indifference. Our country's tolerance to the answer to the censorship is a painful world originality at all levels, given the extent of the problem in the field of universities, research, education, culture and letters, journalism and so on. Especially on the issue of state prizes of literature, can the Minister ask: What is the attitude of the Ministry of Culture? Will they take a position on these substantiated complaints? What is the Ministry of Culture going to do to preserve the institution of state Literature Awards? For example, I give you in the Minutes of the topical and urgent debate on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u97	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Apajidis, thank you for the question. Indeed, the subject of your question concerns, I would say, in the last few days of news. In any case, it has caused a relative debate to worry about the circles of literature and authors. The Ministry of Culture and Sport awards prizes to works of Greek literature, translated works of foreign literature in Greek and Greek literature in foreign languages, in performance of works from the ancient Greek language to the new Greek language, as well as writers or translators for the whole of their work, in accordance with the provisions of Article 40 of Law 3905/2010. And all this in the context of care for the promotion and dissemination of Greek literature and the strengthening of Greek letters in general. These prizes are awarded following a crisis of three competent committees, which are set up by a decision of the Minister of Culture with a two-year term of office and with the task of selecting the award-winning projects. All three committees participate without the right to vote, the Director of Letters of the Ministry of Culture. On the basis of the institutional framework, the relevant Ninth-State Literary Awards Committee has jurisdiction to select the following awards: The grand prize for literary awards, the annual prizes for literature, the novel prize, the novel award and poetry award, the prize for trial criticism, the award for bibliography of time travel literature, as well as the prize for newcomer and the special prize for theme, which is given "to a scholar whose book significantly promotes dialogue on sensitive social issues". Apart from the great prize of letters, which is awarded to authors with a significant contribution to the letters for the whole of their work, regardless of their previous award, all the other awards are selected from the literature of the present year. In particular, the books which have been deposited in the National Library of Greece, as well as those which are submitted to the Committee's judgement at the request of the interested parties, shall be deemed to be authentic if the date of their issue is known. The Committee shall determine the books as an independent body on the basis of written criteria for exclusion and qualification. The outgoing committee, because its term of office expired on 22-6-2020, decided within two years the bibliography of the years 2016, 2017, 2018. In this context, the 2019 State Poetry Award was awarded by a majority in the book by Harry Vlavianos "Autofilm of the White", Patakis Publications. The choice was made following short-list training consisting of eight titles of poetic works. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Both short lists of all categories and state awards by award category were announced to the press by posting the Ministry's website on May 19th and May 31st, respectively. According to the committee's award rationale for the work "Autofilm of the White", "The Poetry Award was awarded by majority vote to Harry Vlavianos for his book “Autofilm of the White, Patakis Versions”. In this mature and complex collection based on the osmosis of poetic and pedestrian speech, the synapse of poetic lyricism with essay and philosophical meditation and the coexistence of the original poetic speech with translated poems of the 20th century are recognized as strong intermittent references and a strong presence of poetic “I”. I would like to mention that this poetic collection of Vlavian has been awarded in 2019 with three more important awards. The Poetry Award of the "Petros Harry" Foundation of the Athens Academy was awarded on March 21st 2019 at the Athens Academy's festive session to celebrate the anniversary of the 25th of March. The Poetry Award of the literary magazine "The Reader" was awarded on 10-6-2019 and the Common "Contemporary Greek Poetry" Prize was awarded on 13-6-2019. This strengthens the view that this is the most important poetic book of 2018. It is clear that this was the reasoning of the committee. Vlavian has a very rich poetic and translational work and runs one of the most prestigious literary magazines in the country. I would like to point out that, from the date of the first award of this poetic collection until now, no written complaint has been filed or transmitted to the Ministry of Culture and Sports on this book, selected for prizes by the Committee of State Literary Awards, although the whispers concerned for this poet dates back to 2007, but without any evidence of guilt. In any event, it is apparent that the objective difficulty of finding that the censorship has been carried out, in particular, proof that such an act has been carried out, at least in the poetic language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u99	Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. I'll speak in particular. For us, in Mera25, plagiarism is not a flea fuck, as the Greek state sees it. All over the world Ministers, state officials, universities, journalists, writers are losing their place, breaking up, forced to withdraw from the public sphere. Here, to us, total impunity prevails. Speech is an offense in municipality. I'll give you an example. In Germany, Mrs Merkel's Defence Minister, Mr. Chu Gutenberg, found a censorship and not only resigned from the Ministry, but completely abandoned politics and left the country. That was the shame and public outcry! In particular, the award of a proven and repeated logo is incomprehensible. A abuser doesn't hire a cashier in a bank. You take measures not to fool you. In any case, you don't call him a month's employee. State Literature Awards have a history of a century. They started out as an excellence of letters in the Mesowar, and the first to receive it was Kostis Palamas. With the State Poetry Award, Yannis Richos, Odysseus Elytes, has been honored. It is unacceptable that shadows be left on the institution and stain the reputation and credibility of the awards. The systematic and unpunished plagiarism is a problem with a particular extent in our country. It is not limited to one case, however repeated and scandalous it may be. On this occasion, however, with this year's poetry award, the prize-winner has many times and many people have been found to borrow texts. Evidence, evidence, that's all. In other words, it is impossible that the members of the Committee of the Awards of Years of Complaints should not be aware. The rewarder, when inhabited, actually answers that, because he's a poet, he can reason freely? The fact that plagiarism in Greece can be avoided after imaginable interpretations demonstrates the scale of the problem in the country. We see here - and we would like your specific position - that this not only does not fight Greece, but is rewarded with the highest prize. The literature on the thefts of this particular case and the occasion is now hundreds of pages. We submit to the minutes a relevant publication from a 2014 literary journal survey, which does not contain all of them, but summarizes them. We also submit a post of the newspaper "TA NEWs" against censorship in 2014, which names it directly. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Apatzidis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even assuming the economy of the debate that the award-winner was awarded for a specific book, which is purely hypothetical and in breach of the rule, may not contain thefts, which remains to be proven, we ask an explanation of how it can be awarded with the State Poetry Prize, namely to be known in committee and documented, when they report thirty-two major literary magazines, institutions, bodies, such as the recent initiative against theft, when the outcry was already forced to resign from the Society of Authors, of which he was a member. What did the Committee of State Literature Awards do to protect the institution? Did he check his contents? Did he make comparisons? Did he even suspect the robbery after so many complaints in the past? That is why we, as a party, have asked that the minutes of its meetings be given to us and we ask the Minister to make them public. What does the Minister for Culture intend to do? Is he going to order an investigation? Will he postpone awarding the prize until this investigation is carried out? Will it add to the relevant state awards the obligation of the critics to monitor the paternity of the present books and retrospectively remove them from the award list if it proves reasonable? Will it reform the institution so that members of the critical committees are appointed as people of letters with a well-known attitude against theft and logos? For us at Mera25 this topical question is only the first step. Similar questions we have also addressed to the Ministers for Education and Justice with the recent case of theft by author Alexis Stamatis on the subject that fell into the pan-Hellenic exams. It's amazing that that's why the late government has not come out to explain, say an apology to the persons involved, to their parents, to the teachers. Merra25 is preparing a legislative initiative in the form of an amendment in the hope of making this initiative an effective response to this government, the beginning of the end of a history of covertness, indifference, opaqueness and even fraud, of the history of censorship in Greece today. We are asking the government directly to understand the scale of the problem. We want to table a relevant amendment, as I said before, and we expect you to support it. We want to see which parties will support such an initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u101	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Apparently the slogan is criminally flattered when it turns out. Those who have to denounce with evidence any form of censorship, and not only in the case of literary awards, have nothing to do with the corresponding procedure in justice with all the evidence they have or so that the evidence can be investigated. As I told you, since 2007, the whispers have been heard, but also throughout 2019 when this collection was awarded, no one has formally filed a complaint. What it refers to the media in no way constitutes evidence. Now, with regard to the actions of the Ministry for the Conservation of the Institution of State Literary Awards, I tell you that the Committees of State Literary Awards are made up of recognized authors, critics and scientists, on the basis of the provisions of Law 3905/2010. In order to establish the committees, higher education institutions and the most representative associations of literature artists and critics are requested, indicative lists of suitable persons and additional criteria are taken into account in order to establish the relevance of the cognitive subject matter of the candidates to the work they are required to carry out, as well as the correlation in terms of the restrictive categories of members laid down by the law per committee. It is very well investigated whether the candidates have published their own book, which will be placed in the committee's judgement, so that there are no cases of identifying the judge and who is assessed by the same natural person. Criteria of major importance in the composition of the committees are as follows: Renewing them with new persons who have not pre-existing members of the public award committees in the past, as well as serving them with authors, critics, translators, according to the designated categories per committee, who have been included in short lists or have been awarded state prizes in previous years. Therefore, the members of the committees are chosen on full terms of transparency, with the aim of ensuring the existence of transparency and dignity when awarding prizes. Specifically for the awards we have completed the publication of two anthropologies, a volume for the novel and one for poetry, including blooming excerpts from the works awarded with the respective state awards from 2011 to 2018, aimed at spreading the works of the awards both to the Greek and international public, as flowers will be translated and published abroad, strengthening the institution of state awards. Finally, for this year the well-known market for prize-winded books by the Ministry of Culture is scheduled to be sent to libraries throughout the country and to seats of modern Greek studies abroad in order to enhance philanthropy. But since the occasion for our debate here today is the censorship and poet, but also the difficulty of proving the censorship process and mentioning Kostis Palamas, who had received the first prize of literature, let me remind you of what Kostis Palamas writes in his article "Odysseus" in 1925: "The poet far more finds himself than he invents. The first footage of his creature from somewhere else will accept it. The careless call it influence, foolish stealing, wise finding. Art feeds on borrowings, as it means borrowing. One of my verses from the "Silver Life" - writes Palamas - "only asks me to put him back here on paper. The lyric is: "The poet is the great patriot. Why is he asking me? To get him away, he tells me, if I wanted to, not to be moved, but to stumble and obey. The poet is the great logo.’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. The first question will be debated under number 884/3-7-2010 in the first cycle of MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition.Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "An unjustified lifting of academic correspondence between similar sections of the EGE". The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Dygalakis. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a critical day for the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations. I want to have the opportunity to wish the children and their families good who have achieved their goals, but to wish good strength and combat attitude and those children who in the short term may not have been able to do so as they wanted to introduce them into public universities. Of course I will also make a comment here and say that there has been a suffering, although it has not seen the light of publicity, of the candidates for the pan-Hellenic with the wrong topics, you have heard the issues of censorship - on issues other than material, but you have chosen to add an additional stress to our students before they complete their computers. So there is an unprecedented decision. Each year these decisions come out to form the basis of the translations of the following academic year. What did you decide to do this year? To move towards a separation, without any convincing documentation of the selection of criteria to be taken into account, in order to identify university departments which had similar cognitive objects and identical curricula. The worst thing is that it is not just the relocations, which you say in a press release you have issued, but at the same time it can also have a significant impact on the part of professional rights. In fact, when does that happen? For you say that you do so on the occasion of the translations, when a law has already been passed which redefined the terms and conditions for carrying out the translations by establishing the index of the two thousand and fifty-five points which has de facto restricted the choice of the Host Parts. So you understand that there is a very serious problem here which obviously concerns all of us and the universities as well. They react - and rightly, Minister, you know - to the Senate of the Hellenic Mediterranean University and of the University of Western Attica. The Rectoral Councils of the University of Thessaly and the University of Ioannina express you their strong concerns, at least invite you to see them, withdraw them, because you directly question their own decisions of PDOs and the conventions adopted by the old and new departments. Mr. Digalakis, you are a university with a great deal of experience in the administration of Greek universities and I do not think you should hide behind the decision of the ETHC. We want you to make the relevant documents public so that the academic community can be better informed, but also the Greek society with what methods of comparing this has been done. In fact, with this decision you are trying to circumvent the creation of the new "architecture" of the universities for the establishment of the single higher education area that SYRIZA had advanced, with which you disagree, but in this direction universities and the entire academic community have moved, because it has assessed that only in this way can it be shielded against the challenges of the era and to enable it to play a more active role in the European university space, which has been achieved by some of our universities. Mr Secretary-General, please today answer not to me or SYRIZA, but to the members of the academic community that are watching us, a community to which you yourself belong. Finally, I invite you to answer and explain with what documentation this unprecedented lifting of academic correspondence between similar departments of HEIs was without any update of the departments. It's neither academic nor ethical. And of course you can explain how this correspondence will not affect the performance of professional rights in Greece, where academic correspondence is a prerequisite for professional equivalence, especially for certain professions, such as engineering departments. You know that the procedure for the award of professional graduation rights of TEI has been under way for forty years. Unfortunately, he's still fading. In addition, you have chosen under article 50 of Law 4653/2020, which is simple and without evaluation procedures, to give access to professional rights to graduates in private colleges, who of course do not yet have many sections of the HEIs. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Jufi and I, in turn, wish the candidates of the pan-Hellenics a success. Good career. Our universities are waiting for them. I'll start a year and something before. Gavroglou, in the Ministerial Decision of 27 June 2019 on the correspondence of sections of introductory directions and curricula for the translations of the previous academic year 2019-2020, states in point 3 of the documents taken into account that: ‘in the decision of the Council of the Assurance and Certification of Quality at the highest education received under No 88/4-6-2019 and forwarded to the Ministry of Education under the same document of the President of the Authority, the opinion of the IPP on the correlations between parts of the existing academic year 2018-2019 of the curriculum programmes’, is formulated. The former Minister, Mr Gabroglou, in the same decision, states in paragraph 4 that the deadline for expressing his opinion on the correlations between the sections established or changed by Laws 4559, 4589 and 4610 has expired. However, if one reads a little below under No 10233/4-6-2019 of the IPP, one will see that it says this self-evidently: "About the new departments of universities, as they have been formed since the publication of laws 4559, 4589, 4610, decided by a majority that they would examine their correlation after the first two years of operation after they had been certified". The deadline for expressing an opinion by the PPP has not passed, Madam President, as Mr Gavroglou said in an official document, in a ministerial decision. The PPP issued an opinion and even said that the sections would be matched after two years and certified. I am presenting the IPP's opinion in the Minutes last year. Indeed, it touches the limits of the political affiliation when, in an announcement of the Disciplinary Department of Official Representation, it claims that the involvement of the newly created NISAE with its positive opinion highlights its pragmatic independent nature, its hard-working integration into government planning and the well-known attachment of the President of the Authority to the political purposes of the New Democracy. Who says that? You're the one who's proposing, as president of the IP, Mr. Gavroglou's advisor. You are talking about the tooling integration of the IPPC successor, after you have hidden, as I mentioned before, in official documents that the opinion of the IPPC was there but that was rejected by Mr Gavroglou. Contrary to SYRIZA, the current political leadership of the Ministry of Education took into account the relevant recommendation for these equivalences for the following academic year. It was accepted by proving in practice that it fully respects the independent authorities. And because you are asking for the academic and scientific documentation on which the decision on correspondence was based, the NCA this year's report - which I also present in the minutes - states that its opinion has been based on criteria for the relevance of the curriculum programmes, such as the existence of joint courses of at least 70%, the existence of the minimum number of DCA members with relevant cognitive subjects with the course courses, the crowd and the existence of a link between the courses offered, the duration of study in six months, the years from the start of the programme and the academic maturity of the department and the possible inclusion in the provisions of Article 46 of Law 4485, the integrated master. It has also taken into account the earlier decisions, which you have concealed. I would also like to end by mentioning another point that you are asking in your question that this decision concerns only the correlation of sections for translations of the academic year 2020-2021 and has nothing to do with real rights, as is incorrectly mentioned in the question. The opposite is true that the examination of the correlation can take account of the professional rights conferred by each section. In fact, you did this too, because the departments of the engineering schools of the former university have not matched them to the engineering departments of the multi-technical schools. This decision is then reviewed every year with the criteria I mentioned earlier, and the independent authority is examining to what extent the criteria are met, recommending and reviewing the matching decision. And as proof of the fact that the matches for the transfer have nothing to do with professional rights, I would like to inform you that the procedure has already begun with my document to the relevant Minister for Infrastructure and Transport in order to match parts of the engineering schools of the former higher education institutions - which are academic - with the departments of the multi-technical engineering schools, in order to make the decisions for the matching of the old and new engineering departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u107	Mrs. Jufi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u108	Minister, in the claim that you have respected and relied on the opinion of the EBRD this year, while we did our head last year, there is an answer. You did say we circumvented the IP. Last year the PPP did not express an opinion on the sections, it did not propose anything, because I said that it took two years to assess them. We have also proceeded as a result of the decisions of the congresses and the comparison of the curriculum programmes. NGO itself is confusing two things, because we are academics with a long time of experience, even if you are talking to each other. It is another thing that the departments correspond to the evaluation process, because there are other criteria, such as the minimum number of intended LPIS members, in related items, the years from the start of the curriculum, the resulting maturity of the academic establishment. Of course these concern the evaluation of the department after a sufficient number of years have elapsed. That's what the P.D. said last year. This does not mean - and it was not for forty years at the Greek University - that the new department that has a relevant cognitive object must wait years to match it. How long did the districts of the Democritus University or the University of Thessaly have to wait for them to be matched? In addition, after you say that the NSAE did so much intensified study and came out of new sections a few days before the computers were opened, why then in another decision it disqualifies its decisions? Did he find any mistakes? So the new Department of Sociology of the EMCDDA, while at first it was with the rest that have the same title, has it now found that it is not worth matching? And I'm on my way. There were three old sections - because time is a little - the Food and Nutrition Science from Lemnos, the Food and Nutrition Science of Athens and the Food Science of Karditsa. In 2019 it was without correspondence. This year, they took place. Then, in the second decision you made, you've left it unmatched. What happened? And of course there are other issues like the old divisions of biotechnology. You matched the Ioanninas and Athens who had no match last year and left the department of Larissa. I mean, this is not the right way to do it, Minister, and you have to recognise it, because you are creating huge confusion within the departments and you know it very well. And you are due - as I said before - and academic and ethically speaking with the people who make up these departments, to consult with both NGO and the Ministry. Finally, you are telling me that the translations are not related to professional rights. You know very well that academic equilibrium in each of us is directly linked to professional rights. You said one more thing, that the five-year engineering departments last year did not put the new departments in a polytechnic school, precisely because the process that would lead to academic and automatically professional correspondence was not completed, because this process included the awarding of the title of integrated master, on the basis of the 2017 law, and after the process of integration into the multi-technical schools, based on the 2019 law. You tell me that you will open this process and go ahead with it. Good. So far, however, it has been "frozen" this procedure for the performance of professional rights to the engineers of TEIs. You will allow me here to say - because you spoke before, you said some things - that there seems to be no respect for the institutions, there is a freeze - I would say - for social and academic progress. And this - because you spoke before about how we evaluate and what is going on with the IPA members - gives me the opportunity to ask you: why have over nine months been delayed and now the new IPA members, which had been given some five hundred posts, which were held in the previous period in the quarter? Why not implement the rule of one by one when an old colleague leaves, so that he can be served by someone new, so that these new departments which have been subsidized by separate resources and with new potential can evolve and strengthen the public university? Instead, you will allow me to say, you have adopted the opportunity to have undergraduate programmes with tuition and we see here that the program of the Aristotle University of Medicine is being advanced. You say that it is not for the Greeks at present, it is only for the European citizens, as if the Greeks were not citizens of the European Union. And I end with this: we did something else because we believe in the public university. We have supported the medical schools, which we all have to admit here that they have taken the lead in dealing with the COVID epidemic -19 and are still at the forefront. I have asked you to put them more actively and to finance them. We, in difficult times, which we did not have positions in the universities, put positions from the ESS to strengthen them, and we believe that this has played a crucial role to respond to this very difficult situation. Mr Minister, each of us is of course judged by his actions. But society, the university and the wider one that listens to us today and which believes in the public university - that is why children and their families are fighting this great battle - will not stop claiming what they own for a strong, reliable public university that needs your support and funding and by legislating and with new potential, which has the potential and to absorb and give it the potential for real development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u109	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, you have opened the 'Vetalia' and raised all the issues of higher education. I don't think the President will leave me, because if I start answering everything, I'll need at least a quarter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u111	We'll have a day!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u112	But I will begin with the IPPC document - read it, I submitted it in the Minutes - which says that it proposes that the sections should not be matched, that they should first function two years, that they should be certified and matched afterwards. That's what he says. If you translate that the PPP did not express an opinion, the text is available to all people to read it, understand and see what the PPP says and what Mr Gavroglou did. Since you opened it, you are giving me the opportunity to refer to what we received a year ago. About a hundred twenty-five new divisions started in 2019-2020. I give you some statistics: in more than twenty-five sections - one of these hundred twenty-five - there were no no appointed LPI members at all, teachers. You built departments, you sent students, and these departments didn't have any professors. In another ten there were fewer than five teachers. Some other elements: Departments of business organization and administration: There were five years old, they opened four new universities. Accounting sections: There were three old departments, you opened seven new universities. If we put together the categories related to computers and computers, Electrical engineers, IT engineers, there were twenty sections or twenty-two and they became thirty-one. This is the landscape that you have delivered, without any planning, without any study of the infrastructure, without any interest in the prospects for young people's employment, with the thousands of graduates coming out without being able to find jobs, and now you are supposed to defend the correspondence of the new departments. The storm that you left us is afflicting us and will be afflicted for too long. We have said from the outset that we are stepping up the independent authority, the National Higher Education Authority, so that by studying to move on to overall planning in higher education, we can make programme agreements with universities multi-annual, so that they too can make their own planning, strengthen extroversion, strengthen the self-government. This is the context of our own approach to bring the Greek university where he deserves it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister. We now move on to the fourth with number 879/30-6-2020, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Piraeus II piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadam to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Policy in the pan-Hellenic exams". Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you for being here today to answer such an important question. But let's get to the point, so I'll be in time. As Mrs Apatzidis said, on 26 June, an open letter was published in which thirty-two periodical institutions and literary associations raised the question of theft in Greece. One of the most recent examples is the article by author Alexis Stamatis, who was set up in the pan-Hellenic exams and proved to be a product of censorship. Unfortunately, the problem of clandestine has increased in Greece, mainly because of the lack of political will, which, if any, would lead to the creation of a clear legal framework, which would function and prevent such phenomena. Due to the systematic cover-up and indifference, the main focus of the problem is the space of the universities, your area of competence, where there are many well-documented cases of theft in doctoral work, but also in the projects of members of the ICPs, teachers, who continue, despite this action, without any increase in university levels. These acts remain provocatively unpunished and meet cover and even indifference, due to the complete inertia of the internal regulations and bodies. The question of keeping a clear eye on the recent disclosure of the use of a chalice text in Greece is of particular concern, as an unprecedented institution report underlines. In view of the above, the questions I have put to you, Mr Minister, are the following: What is the Minister's attitude on this matter? Will you take a stand against these documented and published complaints, giving, among other things, explanations to parents, teachers and also to those who are considering this truly unprecedented event? What initiatives will you take to combat this scourge, which exposes our country internationally, particularly in the case of doctoral thesis and work of Members of the IGC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u115	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague, with regard to the first part of your question, the committee has chosen an issue from a well-defined source, a Sunday newspaper of great circulation, has had it for the needs of the examinations and has used it by making a correct reference to the source. He doesn't have the responsibility for control over censorship. The texts shall be selected a few hours before the examinations for the preservation of the intact character, at a suffocating time. They're usually small excerpts. They have a full reference or bibliographical reference and are often arranged for the needs of the examinations. After all, the same text on which you base your question states that no one is going to ask the committee responsibility, because the article they have chosen proved to be a product of censorship. Article published in a large newspaper was, on an adjunctive matter, no one's going to lie about it. I should also like to point out that there is no formal complaint on this issue of censorship. I would like, however, to focus on the second part of your question, which concerns the Greek universities and which falls within my competence. In the standard rules of procedure of universities, HEIs, Presidential Decree No 160/2008, the census is the first disciplinary misconduct for all categories of teaching staff, members of ICPs, SPDs, EDDs and EIBs, as well as for undergraduate and postgraduate students, candidates for doctors and postdoctors. In particular, Article 23(1) provides that the consciousness of the direct or indirect contribution of other persons to scientific research and teaching is to be punished disciplinaryly. In the regulations of universities, plagiarism is punished by deprivation of the student status for some time, while for postgraduate students, candidate doctorates may also lead to deletion or revocation of the qualification. Provisions exist in internal regulations, regulations of study, regulations of the principles and functioning of the Committee on Ethics and Ethics of Research at all our universities. However, since legislation is not enough, there is now an extensive control over plagiarism in the Greek universities. For the period 2017-2020, by decision of the Proton Association, seventeen Greek universities had aid in the original content control software ‘Turnitin’. After the restructuring of the academic map that took place in previous years, the use of this software has been extended for the three years 2020-2022, covering all our twenty-four academic institutions. "Turnitin" is an online censorship detection software, its database includes over sixty-one billion websites, over six hundred million students' work of all grades, over a hundred sixty million articles from academic books and magazines. The inclusion of Greek-language work and the use of automatic translation capabilities cover the comparison of Greek-language texts with all the material I mentioned earlier, in order to determine whether there is reasoning. Assistance to this service is coordinated by the Association of Greek Academic Libraries. This link with the academic Internet has collaborated on the interface of software with the asynchronous telecommunications platform open e-class and universities with other telecommunications platforms have also made the relevant interconnection. These actions cover the flammable issue of integrating advanced anti-rooting tools into higher education tools. As I mentioned earlier, this software also includes the possibility of detecting theft in a translated text. It is used in over fifteen thousand education institutions worldwide, a million six hundred thousand teachers and twenty - six million students worldwide. At only one Greek university in recent times tens of thousands of censorship checks have been carried out for student work. These are the actions taken at the Greek University, both in order to prevent and treat the phenomenon of theft. I'll give you more evidence in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u117	Mrs. Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, thank you for the useful information and explanations. As far as the first part of my question is concerned, we all know that the choice by the selection committee is always secret, is not announced and is actually made a few hours ago, for many years now, since I was a student. I remember, that's how it happened. Nevertheless, we would like and we will try to ask that through parliamentary scrutiny we have the minutes, to see how the committee was led to this choice, of course with the names out, to ensure the confidentiality of the names of the committee. I will now come to the second point of the question. I'm sure there are regulations. The point is that there is still a need for them to be implemented. That is why, as Mrs Apatzides said in her own dentext, Merat 25, acknowledging that it is present and that there is the need to create a clearer framework, she will table her own amendment on the issue of censorship in the near future. We'll be here to talk about it. I wish we could agree and be adopted by all of us because it is not just a question of introducing rules and introducing software into universities to control the work of either the students or the graduates or the teachers themselves. I'm sure it's something that's in all the universities. And I, of all the universities I've been as a student, and I've been through quite a bit, there's always been. All our work went through and I remember very well that if it were more than a percentage similar to that of another student "we were cut". From there on, unfortunately, we have not seen any miscarriages - or at least several LAG members or teachers who have been charged internally and in the university community for accounting. I hope that, after dialogue, we will end up and move on to a change in the legislative framework in order to make it clearer and, above all, to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u119	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you said in your dilemma that it is not enough to have it, we must use it. I mentioned in my protology that it is being used. This software is widely used by LPIS members to check diplomas, diplomatic, doctoral thesis. There is interconnection with e-class, so that now that lessons are given distance and examinations are done distancely, there is interception and distance control. I have referred to the example of a university with tens of thousands of controls in recent years. But it is not enough to fight. The fight against censorship cannot be only repressive. Academic libraries, university information centres are helping to prevent these phenomena by systematically carrying out information, education, education for students and staff in writing work and using this software. You are referring with heavy expressions in your question about the Greek universities. You are talking about scourges of clandestine in the Greek AEI that exposes our country worldwide. I wanted to tell you this. One measure to see the research work produced in the Greek universities is the resonance index. The resonance index is the weighted average of the reports that takes a Greek publication by foreign researchers. So this indicator in recent years, for which we have had data, has a strong growth rate. It has significantly exceeded the European average, as well as the OECD equivalent. The strong growth trend in the resonance of Greek publications is found independently of sources or other studies, such as the ESF in the results of 2018. I say to you this simple thing: if there were such an extent of censorship at the Greek university, they would not have the echo of Greek publications on an international level. Let's be a little careful, because this ends up discrediting both our university and our researchers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u121	Thank you both. The first question under number 886/3-7-2020 will now be discussed in the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elisabeth (Bettets) Scooter to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Renew leases of the "Property Company of Government S.A.'. (EBRD) to Olympic Beach businessmen.’ The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I imagine you've visited Pieria since you're from a neighbouring county. I do not know, however, if you have visited this area, the Olympic Coast, which is known to us as the oldest Kateriniots, because it has never been the so-called peninsula of the city of Katerini. It is eight kilometers from the city centre and the Olympic Coast has a total area of one square kilometre. I would therefore like to inform you and to convey the real image of the region, in which small, small and medium-sized or family food business or small tourist accommodation are mostly active. The region, like all of Pieria, also visits 80% of tourists from neighbouring Balkan countries. So we're talking about road tourism from the Balkans. All of the information I mentioned to you compose the tourist profile of the region, which is offered for financial family holidays. So we are not dealing with an area that shows the characteristics of Mykonos or other overdeveloped tourist areas. We don't have too many hotel units. We don't have all inclusive hotels etc. This year, as you well know, we have not only reduced and plunged tourist season, due to two skilled unskilled moves by the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, who twice closed the border in Promachona and the Evzoons, not in just five, but in five, creating enormous suffering to potential Serbs, Romanians and other Balkan tourists who wanted to visit the area. So all these moves and clumsiness also created an explosive economic cocktail in the area. Tourism businessmen generally refer to Pieria and especially to the area for maximality at 20% compared to last year. What you understand as an economist means perpendicular fall of the cigarette. So the question I am tabling - and we are tabling - is this: in these conditions of enormous economic suffocation, how is it possible for the EBRD to propose contracts for the rental of BK 316, a rental that is necessary for businessmen to ensure a homogeneity with the cavalry? How can the EBRD request EUR 38 per square metre, plus an increase of 2% per year, plus a guarantee and good execution premium? The proposed price is characterised by the businessmen in the region - and I endorse their appreciation - extremely disastrous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, as you may see, I am here every week to answer the honourable Member's questions. It is an obligation and a rule of respect for the parliamentary order. Your question is about the renewal of the rents of the Real Estate Company to the Olympic Coast businessmen. What I'm not aware of is your question. In the question you asked, why is the signing of contracts for renewal or extension of public property leases managed by the EBRD on the Olympic Coast in Pieria? I must point out, as the CEO of EBRD informed us, that the lease agreements between the company and the entrepreneurs had expired since 31 December 2019. Therefore, the Board of Directors of the EBRD at its meeting on 19 February decided to extend the lease agreements to parts of the old cauldron and other property. The extension concerned leases where their contractual or legal term either expired in 2019 or was due to expire in the first months of 2020. The extension conditions were the same as the original lease and provided that there were no economic uncertainties. The extension shall relate to a one-year period, which may be extended for an additional year and with a lease adjustment in accordance with those laid down in the contract. The extension is given in order to settle all the outstandings within this time in order to allow for the renegotiation of these real estates. This was the best solution chosen by the company, which informed all professionals in the region, sending the related renewal or extension agreements. In my second word, I shall refer in detail to the issue of leases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u126	Minister, I am sure you can understand the meaning of the question, as at least it is in its written form. Of course, it is not the question why the renewal of the contracts is accelerating. Clearly the emphasis is on why the deposit and renewal of contracts at the outrageous price - that is the essence - of EUR 38 per square metre, as you said a year plus a year. So that's gonna mean 2% growth per year? And you know, Minister, as I mentioned in my prototype, we are not dealing with a normal tourist season in the country. I told you and I invite you to visit the county, because no government official has visited Pieria, to talk now, at this time, Minister. The government officials don't show up in Pieria. Mr. Theocharis does not show up, who caused the huge alalum. You do not appear, nor do you, Mr Stavrou, who says that my financial support measures help entrepreneurs. Come on, talk to the businessmen in the area. So we're dealing with a special, lazy tourist season and not just lazy ones. When I mentioned to you before that all entrepreneurs are expecting totality of 20%, the EBRD cannot ask the rents - if you will, to be precise - which were in place last year and before and over. We're dealing with special economic tourist conditions. And I told you this area isn't Mykonos. I'm stressing this thing. From there on, then, how will these enterprises be supported, which, moreover, have a small accountable number of workers? Do you have any picture of the consequences of government policy on tourism? Do you have any idea that tourist companies have decided not to even work this year? Have you realised that there are people out in society - the majority - who do not know how they will be forgotten, precisely because they cannot operate their operations? And I want to tell you something that you may not know, and rightly so, that even the price of 38 euros per square metre in force during the previous contract is distorted because it was calculated on the basis of an error, let us say, of the municipal administration in 2004. I will not go into that today. But we must also take into account the fact that, in the prefecture itself, there are also coastal areas with perhaps more increased tourist traffic and in those regions, the EBRD proposes and has contracts with a rental price of EUR 12 per square metre, not to mention all the other regions of the territory. That's the first element. One additional element: The Municipality of Katerini himself, the new municipal authority - in honor of it - of the municipal areas that it rents the businessmen in the centre of Katerini - not in the flat - has reduced prices. He suggested that entrepreneurs rent them 50% reduction. Is EBRD in these circumstances still arbitrary to be insurmountable and to say EUR 38 the square meter? Minister, the purpose I am presenting today with the timely question is precisely because I know that it is a matter of political will to reduce the rent proposed so that these few small and medium-sized entrepreneurs - households - can be able not to gain this year, but to survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u127	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware of the difficulties all businesses face, particularly in areas of tourist interest. The aim of the government, expressed by specific interventions, is to provide substantial support for all these people. The Prime Minister himself announced the granting of a third round of repayable advances of EUR 1 billion, which is now being extended to individual companies with no employees with cash machine. In other words, in seasonal accommodation, in tourism-related activities. Also, as you already know, the tax advance for seasonal enterprises is zero, i.e. for enterprises which record at least 50% of their turnover in the third quarter of the year. This means that all tourist businesses will not pay a tax advance this year. In addition, seasonal enterprises, businesses active in the tourism sector and 50% of their turnover is made in July, August and September, will not pay any employers' contributions for these three months. From there on, there is clearly provision for rents, which, as I said, has been expressed with concrete measures. I am referring to the adoption of a legislative act, which originally provided for the 40% tax exemption for wage earners affected by the pandemic for the months of March and April. Subsequently, there was an extension of this measure for May and June for companies which continued to be affected by the pandemic. I have already signed a decision yesterday to extend the wage reduction measure by 40% for both July and August. The extension of this measure relates to businesses in the focus, tourism, culture and sport, and if the conditions are met, and these tenants will benefit from the 40% reduction in the rent. Furthermore, the EBRD is considering a more favourable arrangement for the whole 2020, which will address rents for the renting of parts of the old yacht. At the same time, as you know, our Government has promptly arranged and institutionalised with Article 20 of Law 4690/2020, so that the rents of public spaces and beaches are reduced by 60% throughout 2020. And as I had the opportunity to say in other cases, this government has taken and will continue to take what is needed to support businesses, professionals and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Skoufa, too. We are entering the last question for the day, in the third with number 902-6-2020, topical question for the first cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Kommunist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Destructive for health and the environment, the government decision on the burning of waste (SRF/RDF) in the cement industry “TITAN SA” in Thessaloniki”. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not know, in an ironic and insulting way - in the midst of pandemic, that is what I mean - the government is completing a process with simple modification of the environmental licensing of TITAN S.A., at a time when our people are struggling - with the superhuman efforts of health workers - to save their lives against a system which was dispersed and collapsed. So at the moment, you are putting the seal on a development on the same road that SYRIZA opened with the National Waste Management Plan for the incineration of the carcinogen SRF/RDF in the cement industries, copying its practice for the environmental authorisation of the "GATT HERAKLIS" to Volos. In the face of this general outcry and the wave of mobilisations that has risen up by mass and scientific bodies against the attempted and already licensed immuneism, you are battling arguments of the previous political leadership, trying to make black, white. You say about rehabing from polluting conventionally - that is to say we choose between what poison - to reduce the amount of waste being burial, which means that the recycling chain is broken - which could be used properly - and to protect the atmosphere. But there are what you are not saying, because this unit has been authorized for the previous period to burn and separate recyclable materials, such as paper, cardboard, plastics, wood. The responsibilities of all governments are enormous, because you are legislating literally by adopting the European Union's pro-monopoly directives in order to meet the objectives of competitiveness, namely the profitability of business groups. In this history of responsibilities, it is neither the administration of the region of Central Macedonia nor the administrations of the neighbouring municipalities in the region, which are actively contributing to the implementation of the catastrophic health and environmental policy. On the basis of the above, Mr Minister: What does the Government intend to do to cancel the environmental authorisation issued for the combustion of SRF/RDF and prohibit the combustion of separated recyclable materials? Secondly, substantial checks must be carried out on the installation with regard to its environmental impact and on the working environment and on the health and safety conditions of work. How will you proceed with an epidemiological survey into the region's wider region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u131	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I'll say a few introductory elements to know exactly what we're talking about. The Eukarya plant was environmentally authorised for the use of alternative fuels in 2014. Environmental conditions were renewed in August 2019, providing for the use of alternative fuels again. In December 2019, the company requested an amendment to the environmental conditions to add to the alternative fuel already authorised and the SRF/RDF. I would clarify that the SRF/RDF is produced by the treatment of solid urban waste and is generally the same as alternative waste, which has already been authorised for years and during the previous period of SYRIZA. The dossier submitted by the company for 2019 was examined. In fact, some clarifications and evidence were requested. Then, as provided for in the legislation, the Region of Central Macedonia was sent. The region posted the dossier on its website, invited the public to be informed and to participate in the consultation, sent the dossier to the relevant departments and completed the entire consultation process, as provided for in the legislation. These are the real facts. Let's see what you're talking about in your question. First of all, you say that under conditions of pandemic due to coronary conditions the government completed the authorisation. So, what do you want? Do you want during the pandemic to put down the rolls and do nothing? The State continued to operate in this area as in other sectors. Environmental licensing could not be stopped. The same logic had to stop anything. Everything that could continue to work during the pandemic continued. Whatever he couldn't, he stopped. This could go on. Second: What else do you insinuate? What happened in secret during the pandemic? It didn't happen in secret. I told you earlier that there was full publicity, as well as consultation and public participation. There have been decisions by municipalities, scientific associations, bodies which have formulated them and taken into account by the competent authorities during environmental licensing. So they were informed and were able to express their views. And that is obvious, because the whole process is mainly done electronically. It's not a process that requires digging or being present, being all together, everyone. And the consultations within bodies and municipalities are done electronically, by teleconferencing and the whole consultation process is electronic. So there was no point in that. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall then continue, Mr President, simply to close this matter. You are also saying 'by simple modification'. What's a simple change? The procedure envisaged to extend environmental conditions to related issues, such as those already authorised, is simple amendment. This is also provided for in national and European legislation. This has also been done in this particular case. There's no other procedure. What should have happened? To grant environmental permits from the outset for the whole operation of the plant? This has been happening for years. And with regard to the third question - I shall end here, Mr President - whether we are going to cancel the environmental licensing of the TITAN plant in Eucarpa, to say: on what basis should we cancel it? To cancel an environmental license, one does not decide because he likes it or because he disagrees with something. There are specific procedures. This unit operates on the basis of national legislation, European legislation, the National Waste Management Plan, the Instructions for the Cyclic economy and a whole range of other texts, regulations and programmes with which it is compatible. There has been no failure by the company or factory, so that we can close it or cancel the environmental licence. So that's obviously not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Stoltides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. You stayed, Minister, in the technical section. It was not, obviously, in the secret, but at a time when mass operators could not make collective decisions to express their opposition to this development. And of course we say that it is ironic that you did so during the pandemic period, because what we are describing is that you create all those conditions to create serious conditions for the creation of mass illnesses in the population of Thessaloniki as a whole with this development, as well as the corresponding results in relation to the health system. We must say that we have the example of Volos. GDP has changed three times. Each time it even lays down more favourable conditions for the cement industry in question. When it is done disproportionately high costs in terms of maintenance of environmental conditions, they change in the interest of productivity and the profitability of capital. One is that. Secondly, there is no measurement of micro particles, which are not retained by existing filter technologies, with the corresponding effects on human health. The burning of the SRF by 30% to 40% leads to an increase in emissions of hydrochloride and nitrogen dioxide which is irritant for the eyes, lungs. It creates irritations even pulmonary oedema. These concern the quantities. The studies concern theoretical specifications and are not based on epidemiological studies. Produce furans and dioxins, proven carcinogenic by cumulative action, because the thresholds are, of course, not set in this sense. We must bear in mind that the whole region is also burdened by the austerity caused by the operation of the ELPEs. It has been characterised by the European Agency as the most polluted region in Europe. And, of course, the volume of fuel can create an industrial accident of five hundred meters from the first settlement. The group is trying to forge so-called social and environmental action as a counterweight to the great pollution it causes with trees planting in the quarry of Eucarpia. And we think this: If we were to officially go out and invite the smokers to put pots in the balconies to deal with cancer, I think you'd get us together and you'd be fine! So this policy, which is allegedly being forged as social and environmental, does not abolish the carcinogen of combustion. So we, Minister, say this: we are not at 1800, where industrial development as a necessary evil had to be insulted, because the scientific conditions had not been found to ensure the health and life of workers or the environment. But all this has been solved. All this has been solved by science. And science has evolved into it by the workers, the workers producing wealth. So the question is - and the answer is obvious - why, while all the conditions have been created to resolve the issue of environmental protection and work for all with rights, do you currently force workers to live in conditions of 1800, in terms of rights and safeguarding their lives and health, but in 2020 in terms of the interests and profitability of businesses? In this sense, therefore, we say that the movement of thirty bodies is very hopeful and must be doubled and tripled, because such moves are precisely the ones that pave the way for our people, so as to be opposed to a policy which cannot, in any case, cover any area, health or work or its rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u135	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u136	Mr Colleagues, I have answered you about pandemics and inability to consult the institutions, but you are insisting. Proof that they were able to be informed and informed is that they made announcements. So they've come to an agreement. And obviously the same thing happened in dozens of other similar cases. It is not the only environmental permit that has been advanced at this time. You've been on another subject too. You have made the case, without any proof or documentation, that health problems arise, so that pollutants are emitted, which are health problems, at a level above certain molecules that are placed at a time. You said enough, which I will not repeat all. However, these wordings have not been substantiated. You think that simple wording is also proof. But it's not like that. There's no proof that what you're talking about is happening. Those which are proven are as follows: Firstly, in the company - as in other cases and not just in this particular case - limit values for pollutant emissions are provided for, which have been established by European and national legislation and are linked to the decisions of the World Health Organisation. The World Health Organisation has set these emission limits. In this case, there is no specific evidence, specific documentation that the undertaking does not comply with the specific limits established. So they are limits that are within the tolerances, from a health point of view, and there is no proof that they are not respected. That's the reality. Everything else is journalistic estimates without any basis. But let's go a little bit more specifically. I think you're talking about dioxins and furans within the question. These do not remain after combustion. Since combustion is at very high temperature, it is done for a long time, the combustion oven has a strong alkaline environment and it becomes very fast cooling of the resulting gases. All this means technically that, firstly, these compounds of dioxins and furans are being destroyed and, secondly, they cannot be created again during ventilation. So there is no scientific basis for something that is insecure for health at the end. Of course it could happen. For example, the system could not work properly. There could be stuff going on. But we have no proof of this. As far as this is concerned, all the checks provided for by the legislation are now carried out. Inside the company itself there is a recording mechanism - open to the general public and anyone who wants to, can enter and read - emissions on a daily basis, while there are scheduled inspections of environmental inspectors and other bodies, which are carried out either on a regular or exceptional basis and are scheduled in 2020 again for this unit. So everything you say is too, too unnoticed and can indeed cause fear to the public if they hear it. They have no basis. If there's a base, we can talk about it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] No one wants to harm the health of the world, nor do you - I certainly do not imply that - nor we do we. But there must be some evidence to do that. We can't do it like that. For the information we do the necessary steps. Inspections are made, measurements are made. There's nothing else that's come up. Excuse me, Mr. President. If I can have a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u137	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much. As regards what you said, about the conditions of 1800 and the governments of capital, which are trying to increase productivity, etc., every sensible government is trying to increase productivity. That's the first. As for the second part of the claim, the increase in speculation of capital, which therefore leads to conditions of 1800, I will tell you the following: in the countries that have had past or now have governments that are not in the capital, do you know what the conditions for air pollution and the creation of industrial waste and waste? In an earlier question I had brought some data on industrial accidents in relevant countries. Next time, I will bring you - if we ask again - information about what the conditions were for countries which do not seek to increase the profitability of capital. You'll see it's about the day by night. And in the European Union there are the best conditions than any other region of the world and from any other historic period. No one's perfect, there's always a possibility of improvement, but that doesn't mean we're in the worst period of our history. We are at the best of both Greece and other European countries in this respect. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u139	Thank you both. I would like to inform you that the second question by number 892-6-2020 will not be discussed after consultation with the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The impossibility of the Government leads to mass auctions in the autumn’. Nor will the first question be discussed under number 6430/13-25-2020, the question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition, Stavros Arachovitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of: "Daconiania Programme for 2020", due to the blockade of the MP. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-10-S1-commons.u140	With the agreement of the House at 12.32 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 13 July 2020 at 11.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) legislative work, on the agenda and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, on topical and urgent questions.
