ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good week. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘State budget for the financial year 2021’. We're on the list. Let me just tell you, to keep track of the times, that we are in number 145. In other words, he will now speak, Mr. Practicalis, who has a number of 145. All registered colleagues are 214. In addition, they are talking about a series of ministers today, but also four of the six parliamentary representatives. Only two parliamentary representatives have so far spoken. Therefore, if the last Members are not to be wronged, or if they do not take the floor or have their time reduced, I would ask all of us to observe the seven minutes. After all, it is not legislative work like ordinary draft laws. You all know what you have to say, and you don't have to rely on a special article for a perseverance, etc. This is a political process and for years it has been a celebration for Parliament and for all Members on the five-day budget. I keep saying this because I want all of us to do this. The same applies to the Ministers. Mr. Ministers should know that they will be speaking in time for which they have been informed that they must speak. The bell rings and warns at six minutes and ends at seven. There you will know that I will interrupt you, in the good sense of the term. I'll let the bell ring, and I'll tell you to finish with your last sentence. After these introductorys and in order to be able to do the best, I will now give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is drawn up in a time-frame governed by liquidity and uncertainty. It is, however, seen by flexibility and adaptability in a specific economic environment, due to pandemic. The world is facing the worst year's global recession. In addition to the health crisis, our country faces challenges of a national dimension. The provocativeness of Turkey and the drunken work of people in need require that we be alert nationally, both on health and on the issue of borders. The new budget is based, Minister, on the successful economic and reform policies of the last year, which society, the international community and above all the markets. It sets development goals, maintaining the economy and society upright. At the same time, however, he is also socially fair. The allowances for support for vulnerable social groups for 2021 are increased, while a net of solidarity and protection for the long-term unemployed is spreading. A large sum is available for the new job creation programme. The budget shall bear a developmental and hopeful mark. In this direction, the Recovery Fund may also make a significant contribution. Great opportunities are being created for our country. My patriots are investing hopes, Mr Secretary of State of Georgia, for the speeding up of important projects in the primary sector, such as general reforestation, anti-military and irrigation works. Projects of fundamental importance for agriculture, livestock and fisheries in the region, which can proceed quickly because they are mature. The budget incorporates tax reductions and insurance contributions, providing a strong tax incentive for investments in a green economy, energy and digitalisation. The Armed Forces and Security Body are the unarmed guard of the country, as proved on Monday's three-day clean in the Nealgian region of Evros. They have successfully implemented the region's single doctrine of security and defence. The government defensively shields the country by including in the budget and strengthening the Armed Forces with an additional EUR 2.5 billion, with the aim of applying the doctrine ‘preventing by force’. Ladies and gentlemen, Evros can strengthen state revenues if measures are taken to support, protect and strengthen infrastructure, transport and education structures. Our geographical position implies an unexploited wealth of potential. Evros and Samothraki are unique destinations with natural beauty and history. The government for the first time incorporated the austere prefecture as a whole into the programme of social tourism. The Intergroup for the Development of Thrace is an act of donation by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, on the anniversary of the hundred years of the release of the polypath Thrace. The file I have submitted contains proposals relating to all sectors, with strong growth potential. In particular, modernising the road points of entry-out in the prefecture, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, building the garden bridge, ensures traffic loads on the complained highway of the new Egnatia across Europe. To address cross-border issues with neighbouring countries. They are priorities. Improving health structures in the prefecture and especially in northern Evros, through the associated conglomeration of the Dumot Hospital and the multitude of local nursing schools, is a constant request. The draft balanced education reform and development of the Evros regions by establishing the secondary schools, under the law to be adopted within the week, is a future objective. The development of transport through the development of the sea and the new Egnatia road, along with the suburban railway of Alexandroupolis - Ormenio and in the future Alexandroupolis - Nestos, will strengthen the area. The development of the Evros River Delta, the Dadia forest and Samothrace, by implementing its master plan, should be a central objective. Serotrophy, apiculture and scientific development of these will give an identity not only to Suffli, but to the entire prefecture. Strengthening the settlements and villages of the outer perimeter in the Member States of the European Union, through a national and supranational plan within the European family, will make Evros and our islands strong. In the light of the above, Evros reserves, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, pleasant surprises of returns through his simultaneous shield against the neighbor both in real contributions to GDP and in protecting national and European acquired assets. Ladies and gentlemen, the crises highlight the moral stature of the political system. The Civic Opposition instead of raising a reason modern and creative with proposals, makes a sterile opposition and many times opportunistic, at a time when the government is facing mountains problems. We set up a technical, deterrent obstacle to Evros, while the magnifying party lens of the Officerial Antipolitics promoted military prisoners of the River Evros Delta baptizes them supposedly villas. The citizens are tired, ladies and gentlemen, of the barren controversy. The Greeks have evicted! Work and work with us. Winned will be our place. Ladies and gentlemen, the assessments of international organisations show that in 2021 the world economy will recover. The government has shown that it is moving with wisdom, soundness and efficiency, maintaining reserves, so that after the health nightmare we can get winners and additional powerful ones. We are setting the foundations for a rapid recovery and sustainable and socially just development. Thank you for your attention. Good week and every good week!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much for keeping time. Ms. Irene Agathopoulos, Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 budget in the midst of a huge health crisis, which has hit both our country and the whole world. The health crisis and restrictive measures have adverse effects both at social and economic level. The market is squeezing. Businesses declare they will close in 2021. Employees saw their incomes offloaded. Approximately six hundred patients are on a daily basis within the clinical ICU and within forty days more than two and a half thousand of our fellow citizens have left life. Of course, for some, like the Minister of Tourism, this may be a small number, according to his statement. Perhaps because you've put the bar on this government very low. However, it is a shame to say these things!- Oh, my God! And while no one expects the 2021 budget to be oriented to address these consequences of the crisis, we see the following: we see health expenditure reduced, compared with last year, expenditure on social policy and welfare services reduced, compared with last year, zero support for free professionals, scientists, small and medium-sized enterprises, the long-term unemployed, farmers. Instead of seeing brave measures in the 2021 budget, you know what we see? We see an estimate and a wish, the wish that, when the vaccine comes to the country and the vaccinations will be carried out, both the economy and society will again start to operate with magic at a normal rate. And we wonder: Who gave you the right to speculation - because it is about speculation - to capture it in the budget of an entire country and at this time to make designs, based on a scenario that is far from the best. It's so good that it touches the limits of science fiction! Is there any assurance that the virus will be eradicated by magic after the vaccine or that there will be no more similar pandemic in the future? Because only this can justify a reduction of EUR 572 million for health. In particular: While 523 million euros were budgeted in 2020, only EUR 131 million is budgeted in 2021. I'm not an economist personally, but I don't think it's necessary to be someone, to think about the simple thing, that in the way we're going, you have to calculate the worst scenario. Because the vaccine alone will not restart the economy. It requires strong budgetary intervention for this. And that's not necessary, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to be a socialist to understand it. You can ask your peers of the European People's Party who have taken brave measures in other European countries. And that is why we are saying that it is not only your neoliberal ideology, but also your inability, this inability, which has led us to complete failure, both in the management of the pandemic and in the financial management of the crisis. Let us see, for example, what happened in the third quarter of 2020 that was not Lockdown. Enterprises in various sectors saw their turnover falling by 62.6%, i.e. 13 billion less than last year. Why? Because it was simply not increased the consumer potential of the citizens. In addition, the loans you provided as repayable advances, and which were able to get only one in five companies, lead to a further expansion of their debts for the new year. And of course you have not lost a minute to turn this crisis into an opportunity for the abolition of labour law and the elasticisation of working relations. It is Pan-Europeanally acceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that this crisis has also disproportionately affected women in relation to men, who continue to be disproportionately exposed to poverty, unemployment, the wage gap, the exclusion from decision-making centres. This does not seem to be taken into account in the budget of our Government for 2021, although the European Union is calling on the Member States to take into account the gender dimension in all policies, because equality entails more jobs, greater productivity and is a precondition for an innovative, competitive and prosperous economy. And we don't say that. The European Gender Equality Strategy for 2020-2025 says it. On the contrary, what are you doing here? You leave out of productive tissue a large part of the working population, women workers, who see their jobs and their wages being paid off, unlike their unpaid work at home - care for children, older people and patients - which is increasing. And you have made sure that it grows after you have managed to create a huge gap in the public care services of children, young people, young people. And as a culmination, you've booked schools. The schools have closed down because you've been humiliated about throwing money into education, hiring extra educational staff and reducing the number of students per class, so that they can safely operate in the middle of a pandemic. You feared not to strengthen the public education system and to blame you for prisoners. Thus, women working mothers today have been overweighted within the home during this period and ask - really begging - to close schools for holidays, to get rid of at least the burden of teleworking. That's the truth and we waited for you to take lessons from this time and use them from here, but, unfortunately, we don't see that. Still, we won't get tired of saying some things. And I will give you an example from Portugal, which will make use of both its regular budget and the money it receives from the European Union, including to support family allowances for workers who have not worked to support their children or but dependant family members, for special support to tourist enterprises, for special allowances for workers in sick leave or quarantine, for the purchase of personal protective equipment for workplaces, for financing after Lockdown. And we want you to tell us what Greece has planned for 2021 of all this. Nothing! He's waiting for the vaccine! However, the vaccine, ladies and gentlemen, is not panacea and does not have a development mark. On the other hand, there is support for social cohesion, support for public health, support for public education, support for welfare structures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the period of governance of the SYRIZA has shown - I conclude, Mr President - that the support of the social state and the strengthening of public structures, the increase in minimum wages and the fight against flexible labour relations is a lever for economic growth. In fact, it has proved it within a very suffocating financial framework, so that you can come back today and not leave a swimming pool. So we cannot vote for this budget. We would vote for a budget which would include what we have told you since March, a non-refundable grant for small and medium-sized enterprises, a work subsidy with 100% wages and insurance contributions for the time when companies will be in lockdown, an emergency income for households that have been subject to a catastrophe of their income, a rental subsidy for affected enterprises and a generous support for the social state and the public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u5	Finish, colleague, close!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u6	I'm closed, Mr. President. Because that is the only way we think we can get out of this crisis with the least possible losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u8	Here, Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I have said this in my speech - and I repeat it once again - what we are doing to support businesses, workers and the unemployed, the whole of Greek society. We have taken measures and made EUR 24 billion in 2020. We have taken measures for the first months of 2021 of EUR 7.5 billion, a total of EUR 31.5 billion. As you mentioned the repayable advance and said that one out of five companies is only part of it, that five companies were asked for and only got one - those are your elements - these include providing liquidity to enterprises through financial instruments, such as the repayable advance, which received four hundred and sixty thousand unique VAT. It's the most successful financial instrument in the country. If you have any better in the five and a half years you have ruled, you will tell us here. And they took 5,54 billion euros of funding to "Refunder 4 and 5", 50% of it non-refundable, together with the working capital under the Entrepreneurship Fund, TPIX II, 2 billion euros and the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank of 5,2 billion euros, totalling EUR 12,7 billion and special-purpose allowances. With the extension of unemployment benefits, the 'COMPANY WORK' programme, the reduction of rents with corresponding compensatory measures for owners of immovable property, so we supported the Greek society, businesses, workers and the unemployed, as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Mr. Ragosi, what exactly do you want? Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u12	I want an intervention in what Mr...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u13	There is no intervention at all. The Parliamentary Representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u14	Why can't it be done? Please. After he did...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u15	Excuse me very much, you don't have this moment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I have had this opportunity since the Minister took the floor and even answered...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u17	What can you do? The Minister replied to a Member.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u18	Please. Please. And indeed, the Minister got the floor to repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u19	However, take the floor for a minute, but why would the Minister call again after the speech? We never finish after!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u20	It seems, then, that the Secretary-General has come to the fore this morning, Monday morning, determined to repeat the same inaccuracies and the same lies and, indeed, ignoring that he is not addressing the colleague, who has very clearly claimed and reiterated and said our allegations. But you have ignored, Mr Secretary, that the Greek society is listening to you, that the real economy is listening to you, that is the hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, who are prolonging the lockdown - because you obviously could no longer have done anything else - you have led them to total desperation, that you have led them to the tragedy and with these professionals, entrepreneurs and tens of thousands of workers. And you do - let me say it - and the indiscretion of abrupt comparisons with the past, and even with the period before pandemic. So, stop at some point and feel a unique truth, that out right now, hundreds of thousands of families in Greece suffer, live a tragedy! Stop this poem of government that did everything well and that they should say to her and "thank you". Because much more you should have done, much more you could have done and your choice was not to have done it, as Mrs Agathopoulos told you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u22	Here you go, Minister, don't keep giving up now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I have nothing more to say. The Parliamentary spokesman said that this is why I replied because they repeat the same thing. They've taken and strangled the exact same thing. They repeat the exact same things, they don't say anything. Who supports the Greek society knows it outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u24	Good. Please come to Stepma, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a year after the first case of pandemic, the world is already mourning over a million six hundred thousand victims. However, dramatically it is also its effects on the economy. Sectors such as trade, transport and tourism have been scanned. Millions have been lost from world GDP and millions of jobs. The Olympic Games were postponed, which since 1896 had not only taken place in periods of world war. In the unpapered environment Greece moved quickly and came out with the smaller losses from the first cycle. Immediately after the country sought the golden incision between protecting the population and restarting its basic functions. Finally, the second wave came more aggressive and more resilient and we see it even today. Fortunately, the government had provided sufficient reserves to support society and had not been taken away from the unwise encouragement of counterpopulation, "Starra, give it all!" The health system and its workers were strengthened and withstanded pressure. Of course, without the coronary, today's debate would take place on another basis. So we are clearly talking about a different starting point. The support programme for 2020 only reaches 24 billion. But it's not just pandemic. In the year that he leaves, we have successfully faced enormous challenges to immigration and nationalities, not at any cost. In addition, the current budget was borne by the repayment of the retroactives amounting to 1.4 billion, as well as the compensation for the major disasters caused by the earthquake and cyclone 'Janus'. Finally, the damage it leaves behind in 2020 is given, but not fully valued. And how could we, even yesterday, hoped that the market would open up for holiday days? Unfortunately, the epidemiological data did not allow it. Even today, then, there are serious uncertainties. Can someone here safely predict whether there will be a third cycle, how long will it last, how much will it cost, how much will global tourism work and how much will it affect our country? Of course not. And yet, in the midst of the crisis, we see an irresponsible opposition resigning the government because it says that it revised the October forecasts, that is, what all the countries of the world and all the institutions have done. We hear it bet that the budget will fail and the expected growth will not come, one blaming us because we have closed the other because we have opened the business of the economy, speculated on the anxiety of the citizens about the resistance of the health system, sold to every sector's demand, if any of the polls were to be pricked. We are seeing a dogmatic opposition that, in the romance of state intervention, benefits, social transfers, reductions in taxes and aid, still speaks of neoliberal policies. Cannes, ladies and gentlemen! You know, worldwide along with the pandemic of great dispersion, there was another equally dangerous phenomenon, the infodemic, which refers to the misinformation surrounding the coronary. This is information. Indeed, global platforms have implemented interventions when they consider that there is a risk of citizens being misinformed not only about the disease but also in the American elections. Of course, from the "disease" of misinformation, the Civic Opposition suffers childish and does not say heals. He's making heavy accusations, and he's sharing up-and-a-half promises. Fortunately, however, citizens have been immune to SYRIZA's lies. The Greeks and Greeks know the great work produced by the current government in these unprecedented difficulties, how much neural sectors of the state were strengthened and the jump to the digital transformation achieved by the country. However, both the markets and the rating houses and the investors show confidence in the Greek economy. The country borrows cheaper than ever and leading companies want to settle here. And all this didn't come by accident. In addition to supporting our most vulnerable fellow citizens in the crisis, we have gone through measures to attract investment, we have significantly reduced tax rates and non-wage costs, we have voted for arrangements to simplify procedures and strengthen entrepreneurship, we have remained faithful to our reform programme. And in all of this, we had a sterile opposition to us, but our ally to society, and that is why the faith that we will succeed. The new year will therefore be a year of upgrading, and this promises the present realistic, flexible, dynamic and developmental budget with EUR 3 billion reserve for whatever need arises and increased the country's defence spending by EUR 2 billion. I would just like to say to the ministers present that the greening of the Greek economy in every respect brings with it threats and opportunities, particularly for my country, the Kosanis Prefecture. That is why in implementing the new budget, which has a strong environmental dimension, I will strongly claim support for a fair transition, although I think I will break open doors, since it is already a priority of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Finally, for the holy days, I wish all our fellow citizens Merry Christmas, reminding us that we must be consistent in respect of measures and vaccination, so that we can get safe and on the best possible conditions in the new year. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr Constantinidis, not only for keeping but also for the time economy. After the Step is ready, Mrs. Gara will take the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Voutsi. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, while following the budget debate for three days, I honestly wonder whether the members of the New Democracy, the government, the Members of the New Democracy have understood what is happening outside this Chamber, what is happening in society. Honestly, do you realize that the world outside lives in insecurity and fear not to suffer, because you have left the National Health System and primary care unarmed? Have you realised that all this time there are people who do not have 100 euros to do the test? Have you realised that there are workers who have not had any income for a year? You wonder how these people live, how they live their families, and what do they eat every day? Do you know that artists, unemployed professionals, have been feeding these days on piles? Do you know that many families do not have the opportunity to have a computer, mobile, or a tablet to teach children by televising and are actually excluded from school and learning process, because you have transformed the school into a right only for rich people or for wealthy ones? Have you realised that every day there are dozens of power cuts? That farmers and livestock farmers have left their production in the warehouses and have no incomes and find it difficult to live on their day? That small and medium-sized businessmen, our neighborhood shoppers, our neighborhood shoppers are in despair? Do you hear that scream of agony? The middle-class, this long-term middle-class, which you have sincerely deceived, has remained unprotected from your policy. The so-called support you are saying here and sharing millions of words has gone to very few. Most of what you've given are loans and payment suspensions. Loans and suspensions of payments! How will they work in a few months? Where will they find this money to pay double bills and double debts? And all these programmes you say and say again, Minister, after each Members' placement, have gone to very few hands and to large businesses that have the prerequisites and can even be borrowed by banks. Honestly, does this need a small shop in Acronym Evros or in Acronym Castoria, loans and suspension of payments? Is that the support? Honestly, I'm wondering if you're listening to all these people, or if you're actually ignoring them. Because you really are so cynical that you come in here and present us with a idyllic situation and that you have done everything well at a difficult time. Let's be honest! But I wonder: Are you lying very consciously? You want to present a different situation and you think the world will believe you? She doesn't believe what she's experiencing? I therefore expected today to hear the New Democracy Members referring to the budget itself and its codes, but also to the forecasts of this budget. However, we have heard nothing. But what do you say? You're saying your political strategy is disastrous for the majority of society? What is there is the dismantling of labour relations and rights, the padlocks and the liquidation of the small and medium-sized market, the dismantling of the welfare state, the reduction of benefits and the reduction of health and education expenditure, the sale of public property, the zero aid to unemployed, professionals, farmers, farmers, scientists, free traders, artists. I don't say it, but the zeros in the budget tables. This is what your budget provides for: the violent poorening of society and, at the same time, great deals, such as the green light you give to the gold mines to start investments in Thrace and mining in Thrace, ignoring the pandemic 'no', the denial of local society. Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed in the management of the pandemic. In support of the economy you have failed. You have failed to do so and we are very concerned about it. You are, unfortunately, incapable of defending the interests of the country, because yesterday at the meeting we had a failure, a national defeat. You cannot lie in here and not tell the people, not to admit the reality. We saw them yesterday with the NAVTEX that came out. You told us that we would get sanctions that "bite" and finally took time for the neighbouring country to provoke and threaten us. And Mr. Petsas came here to tell us that it was not our own end of sanctions. All you care about is the communication management of things. A characteristic example of the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis, who went a sloppy ride to Parnitha, without knowing that he is giving a signal to the citizens not to observe the measures. And what bothered Mr. Mitsotakis? He did not disturb him that he sent this message to the world nor that he has primarily blamed the youth and all the citizens for their individual responsibility, but he bothered him and misled him that he was photographed, because what he could not manage was his image and the communication track. And that's all you're interested in, communication. That's what it looks like in the budget. Mr. Petsas spoke here yesterday and did not talk about his matters of responsibility, while workers in the media are currently in strike mobilisations on the unacceptable bill, which legislates redundancies of workers in the media, effectively doing the favour of canalarchs. But what can Mr Petsas say, that while the budget has zero aid for citizens, it has rich gifts and increased budget and media funds? In short, I say that the 'Blue State' is finally costing taxpayers more than EUR 34 million, and funds are also provided for the Petsa list. Also, for private channels it was not only a discount from the advertising fee or subscription television, but also a reduction in the budget for channel licences is now provided for. In fact, with the bill coming, there will be the possibility for canalarchs to have a 98% discount, while for shoppers in the region or other citizens, loans and suspensions of payments, which will be called upon to pay. Furthermore, Mr Petsas has not arranged for the issue to be settled by publishing the summary of declarations which is one of their main revenues for regional newspapers. So it's a blow to the small media owners, too, because they obviously don't do the job and they're hard to control. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance for thirty seconds, Mr President. The ERT obviously also favoured, with an additional EUR 32 million. We are talking about ERT, which has been closed down from New Democracy and has been deported. It is now turning into a party shop and there are also increases for the officials of the New Democracy. It is obvious that you are trying to buy out a veil of silence, but also your immunity from the criticism or investigation of your scandals. This is also dangerous for democracy. And it's not just the control of the media. You are trying to smear the Opposition through your retribution, because you do not want to hear a different voice, because SYRIZA has submitted concrete proposals to support society and the economy at the first time. And that unleashes your inability and your poverty, because it can be done anyway! Society can be supported, democracy can be supported, the economy can be supported, social cohesion can be founded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u28	Please complete with one last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u29	I shall close, Mr President, with one last proposal, and thank you for the tolerance. No communication campaign will hide your responsibilities. We are voting against the budget, but also against the whole strategy of your policy, because it is intensifying inequalities, poverty and attacking the Greek people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u30	Mr Voutsis, the former President of Parliament, has been speaking for twelve minutes now. Mr Antoniadis, Mr Papachristopoulos and the Deputy Minister, Mr Tsakiris, will then speak. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Ministers, there is a strong and documented political confrontation and political conflict on this budget, as it is reasonable, which, in fact, also raises a question of the need for alternatives and different governance for the country. I cannot and do not have the right to start without saying that Greek society, ladies and gentlemen, lives a tragedy. He is enduring, but he is being mourned at the same time. We all grieve and have to be in solidarity so that this mourning can be done as much as possible for the next few months. There must be solidarity, collective solidarity and resistance to help and individual responsibility, individual resistance to what is happening. Let me tell you that the Greek society - and we know it very well - is in a phase of fatigue. There's fear and depression. We must all commit ourselves and help - and above all, obviously, the Government - and for the vaccination programme, since, at the same time and for the approved treatments, as much as they may be. There may be specific treatments by the European Agency, by the relevant Greek body. So, at the same time with the strong support of the ESS, there must be a real intervention in all these ways in order to curtail this tragedy, both timely and quantitatively and qualitatively, because we are talking about people's lives. At the same time, I feel the responsibility as the Left, to raise the issue of equal - and quantitatively and qualitatively - distribution of vaccines on a global scale, because we know very well that at historical times conditions are being shaped where inequalities are exacerbated and inequality is being developed, even on this crucial issue, which concerns human lives all over the world. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that in the magical image you have presented in a number of numbers and numbers, you are not listening at all - and this is a magical picture - the society, its institutions. The committees have also heard what market operators, the real economy, health workers, these people who live in the first row are saying in Greek society. You've closed your ears. You do not see the figures on where the job lies, on pay, on the three hundred thousand outstanding pensions that are clearly more than last year, than on the number of outstanding pensions that you had last year. You do not see the figures for the recession, for private loans and private debts that are increasing constantly and creating, obviously, a situation of dystopic and then for our society in 2021. Ignore those numbers. Ignore those voices. You display a magical picture on which you build your proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, this picture also contains a large number of political arguments. In other words, you compare last year with your government, let alone with the four years and some indicators that existed in the four years that SYRIZA ruled. Really? It goes without saying that today, for months from the European Union, and not only, there are very great opportunities - and there will be 2021 and 2022 - we have heard this yesterday from the ministers of the government - on liquidity, on extending for years of indices and cuts to the budgetary pact, debt management and the NRP. All of this gave you a much more potential for 2020 - and there are still these possibilities and you are very well aware - so that you have beenhaved much more positively, much more differently to deal with the pandemic and the enormous social consequences that pandemic has on our people. So what comparisons do you make? What periods? On what responsibilities and what potential you have not exploited. On this occasion, I should like to say to you that there is a total lack of the country's strategy in relation to what is coming and what is to come, because there is a battle, conflict and the European Union in relation to the issues of debt, the budgetary pact, the allocation of funds and a series of other very critical issues, which are, obviously - in our country, which has had the ten-year economic crisis and has increased indicators and must be increased even more, namely, in the hands and in the hands of a different strategy of the European Union. What position do we get in there? How willing do we show before us the new possibilities available or conflicts on a Europe-wide scale? Why is all this happening? What has happened to the current government, to the present political majority? I want to be clear. As a result, the government wants to use as a vehicle, as an opportunity to pandemic for a number of anti-social measures, anti-social reforms, etc. It insists obsessedly - I would say abstractly socially - on implementing its programme, namely the programme which the Prime Minister presented here in July 2019 as government's programme statements. Really? And you're saying it's normal? For a year now, the whole world has been upset, it is a historic part, which everyone says will be different afterward, than before the COVID and it will be different with conflicts, with new inequalities that can arise in all areas, even in the field of democracy, rights, governance and, of course, in the field of economics, in the role of the public, in the role of the state. And you do not submit through the budget or through the speeches and distinguished ministers the necessary reflection, self-criticism, change of Rotta, support for the most popular and vulnerable groups, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. You are not directly saying that this came out of the country, obviously, and that forces it to change its minds with regard to the programming declarations, the bills, what you call reforms. You are insisting on the same line, and in fact on the hands, that is, with an even more anti-social character. Mr Papadimitriou, as rapporteur for the majority on the budget, was absolutely revealing. It did not leave an impulse to not perceive and not believe any Greek citizen that the Pissaridis report is the strategy that inspires both the programme which, as a government, you submitted to the European Union for the Recovery Fund, but it is also the strategy underpinning the budget submitted. He was very clear. In this sense, it is clear that we are leading to serious, beyond health, effects of a structural nature on the labour, on small and medium-sized enterprises, on rights, on health, on education, on the weakening of public infrastructures, on the elasticity of work, on the compression and reduction of basic and lower wages, on the reduction of State intervention, namely on new inequalities. Is it your choice through pandemic to have a great opportunity and your budget is indeed a social contract, but with whom alone? With those who are already at the point of departure. See the article that is friendly to the government of literature, newspapers, journalists, economists, who are already at the forefront and affect the political situation, because it is a lot of money that is played for digital transformation, climate change and change. These are areas on which very different strategies are being developed and approached very differently by the progressive forces both in Europe and in Greece and in our own design and design of other political forces. This social contract you've done. So what are you telling them? You will be entering the new framework of at least the next five years to make use of these resources of the Development Fund, with reduced rights to work, reduced wages, reduced guarantees and protection, and there will be a shield against demanding and, at the same time, a violation of constitutional freedoms and rights. That's what this is about. This social contract promotes it very systematically, without any interest in how the situation goes. Your responsibilities for not strengthening the ESS and for the criminal responsibility for how this second wave of pandemic is going, with the hundreds dead, with our hundreds of fellow citizens who are leaving, are self-proof, have been tabled in numerous debates and you do not find any reason to say that the situation will be corrected for primary health care, for permanent staff - doctors and nurses - for the ordering and integration of the private sector - which you only have next to rejoice, taking the lighter cases - to increase public spending. None of this. In this sense, the government's responsibility is indeed criminal. So we are not, Mr President, in a situation where the government does everything in its power, what we said at the beginning,'seeing and doing' and not taking forward measures, etc. Now, through this budget, it wants to solve both the hands of the financial staff and all the ministries, so that it can impose, promote and ultimately pass certain anti-social policies at a very great cost. The social question - because this is what this whole debate is all about - is a dramatic negative sign within our country and is also being raised for the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the confrontation, the harsh conflict, which is taking place and will be extended to consciousness and slowly to reaction, the resistance to society, in the coming months, will, at least, not go along with this harsh confrontation for the future, while continuing this dramatic situation, the tragedy within the country. There your responsibilities are now directly for measures - as we said at the beginning - and for vaccinations and treatments, which are approved and, if approved and with strong support from the ESS in all areas, so as to relieve the country, to relieve our fellow citizens as much as possible and to have a collective solidarity, a collective responsibility that will help and psychologically - I stress this, and psychologically, our society to stand up. We will be with these forces, which are aware of these deadlocks and are fighting to gain what they are responsible for and not to be lost again - and in lives, unfortunately, but also in rights and guarantees - from this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u32	We continue the list, and I call on the New Democracy MP, Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis, who has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the 2021 budget, a top parliamentary procedure. When we discussed the 2020 budget last year, who would have expected it, who would have believed that we would meet the pandemic on our way, which has reversed the whole planet and Greece? He changed our lives and the consequences will surely be paid for many years. But what is causing unpleasant impressions is the political behaviour of Officer Response. Instead of responsibility and creative proposals, they again collapsed in the populism of the period before 2015, when the memorial tombs were torn apart by a law and an article, when tolls were abolished, when they were combating fuel evasion, the notorious 1,5 billion a year, and other fragile ones. We only hear a proposal from SYRIZA in spring 2020: 'Shoves, give it all! "Shove it up, give it all up." Five thousand recruits announces the government, fifteen thousand recruits are offered by SYRIZA. EUR 600 for compensation per employee, the government, EUR 1,200 for SYRIZA. White government, black SYRIZA. And one more thing, the consequences of the pandemic will be appreciated in total, when it's done and we return to normality. With this policy, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are not helping the country either. I must say that voices like Mr Voutsi are a tragic minority within the SYRIZA, as we have heard before, with a political approach and careful analysis, without excesses. And finally, gentlemen of SYRIZA, stop dating as public defenders. Whatever public is around you was built in New Democracy and PASOK. Public schools, schools, high school, universities, have been built for our last 40 years, with fifty years, hospitals for our day, public administration for our time. Of course, we are making our self-criticism about the excesses and mistakes of public administration, about the fact that there are the poor, who in public hospitals are waiting for two and three months, but stop being defenders of something that others have created and continue to support. However, there must also be an alternative. Something similar is said about the frustration of western Macedonia, the so-called violence, which began a decade ago, and you have not taken one measure or one or two of them. You knew that in 2019 the units of the PPC of Amynteio were closed and followed by the closure of the units, again because of Ptolemais Ptolemais Ptolemais Ptolemais, but all you did was close your eyes in reality, because it was difficult. So lower the tons, leave the big words, become essential and creative, as your role as Officer of Antipolitics requires. Unfortunately, we have seen you in the opposition for many years. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, shows the unique feature of having been drawn up under paradoxically and unmistakable conditions, under the conditions of great uncertainty about the economy, resulting from the development of the coronary pandemic that we are experiencing. This is a time when economies and societies around the planet have been tested by the most serious health crisis in the past 100 years. International health systems are 'in red'. Traditionally strong economies are entangled and there is a widespread uncertainty and concern about the development of the pandemic. In this negative climate for our economy and our country, there are also the challenges Greece accepts at geopolitical level, Greek-Turkish, pressure on migration, natural disasters and others. No one says, ladies and gentlemen, and I hear it all the time from SYRIZA, that the situation is excellent and enchanting. The situation has been, is and will continue to be difficult for several years. I heard about the Pissaridis report. We need the technocrats and their proposals, but we tell you that the decisions are finally taken by politicians, who combine the terminology with the benefit and the safe now. In this liquid environment, therefore, the New Democracy Government has tabled the 2021 budget, the most difficult budget in preparation for the last decade. It is a budget of consistency and continuity of the successful economic policy of the Government of New Democracy, as implemented in the second half of 2019. For example, the reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions, which exceed 800 million, the suspension of a special solidarity contribution of more than 800 million in the private sector, the cover of insurance contributions from the State budget and the grant of EUR 200 in the case of recruitment, etc. for the creation of a hundred thousand new jobs with more than 350 million euros, the ‘GEOFYRA’ programme concerning the grant of first residence, the extension of VAT reduction and others. Also, factors contributing to the recovery of the Greek economy are measures to support incomes and support businesses of more than EUR 7.5 billion, to accelerate reforms, to absorb the funds of the recovery plan, to upgrade credit capacity and, of course, to increase the funds for education by about EUR 150 million. In conclusion, this is a budget aimed at overcoming the crisis, with the economy in operation and society standing up. Ladies and gentlemen, we must all get out of the tunnel, with a good deal of criticism, of course, but also with proposals that are realistic and practicable, with society upright and the economy alive. That is why I support the budget. Happy holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much for keeping time. I call on Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, a member of SYRIZA, to take the floor for seven minutes to Stepma. Then the Deputy Minister will take the floor, Mr. Tsakiris, as I have announced. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The word'minimal dictatorship' may be hard, but we have had a taste recently. And here I would like to remind you: it was, I think, October 2017, when Daphne Karwana Galizia was murdered in Malta. In some other countries, journalists are murdering them. In Turkey, for example, they are being imprisoned. In Greece they're just firing them. At the same time, when Mrs Akrita lost her position, because she was not 'considered to suggestions', we saw an old Member, Mr Psaryanos, hired in the Vice-President's office. That's as an introduction. I would like to remind you here and begin with this. The terrorism that we supported at that time is unbelievable. Thirteen MPs were in danger of losing their homes, they went to burn us, precarious streets, etc. The terrorism that was exercised at that time was unbelievable. However, we have won the elections, and we have won them with that and with that much more. An apology didn't hear when they turned a hundred and eighty degrees. We still saw the judges terrorized. It's very important. I was listening to Mr. Chiara yesterday. I came to weep with the best she ever did. We remember the race that had taken place for four years, some of the jury politicians never went to trial. Mrs Toulopakis gave ninety-five pages. No one reads them. At the six meetings of Mrs Xenis Demetriou, no one heard them. Mr. Tsiaras made a special piece of legislation and incorporated the prosecution of corruption in order to calm down some of the jury's prerogatives. However, I listened to him yesterday about the "good" work he has given to justice. I was almost ready to tear. I would like to come here to the subject we have: the budget. However, I will say again that they are some indicators which cannot be ignored. In fact, Paul Paulakis is here, who has "blocked" - and rightly so - is here yesterday in his speech. I want to repeat and say that when you have a hundred dead a day, when the intensive care units are on their limits and when winter comes you have to be more careful. I would like to refer to something that is of great importance here. I know a lot of people will get you wrong, but what can we do? That's the reality. The American University of John Hopkins - I can't imagine this being left - in a survey of him says: eleven deaths in Cuba per million people because of COVID. Six hundred forty-seven deaths in the United States. For those of you who have a question, I would like to remind you that Cuba, a neglected country, a poor country that has no computers, has nothing technology, with pencil and paper, has done what it had to do: tracing, tracking, isolation. One hundred and ten thousand Cubans were isolated. He had all and all of them thirty and eight dead throughout the pandemic, when we have a hundred and a hundred ten every day. That poor Cuba, some of you get allergy here when you hear that name. But I'm leaving Cuba. Going to Australia that's not Cuba. Going to New Zealand, going to Slovakia. You didn't understand from the outset that you had to run millions of tests. It was the big card. The Slovaks have understood and tested four million people. They understood it in Taiwan, they understood it in South Korea, they understood it in Japan. It's a couple of fifteen countries. What can we do? In a developed Europe, the economy is above health. Now they are beginning to understand what happened to them and actually making corrective moves. Germany first took measures. Because I hear several conversations, it's worth it here to remind you of an organization. It is a European agency and has nothing to do with SYRIZA. It is the famous ECDC which means European Center for Disease Prevention and Control. It is the Council of Europe. It has nothing to do with SYRIZA. So she's doing an investigation and she's got her results up to ten days ago. It examines three parameters. Mortality rate in the last five months from 1 July to almost the end of November. You tell me you're not talking about old times. Oh, no. And I do give credit. I don't have an empathy. The fact that in the first wave there were no cases I believe in you. But what did you do in nine months? Here, then, I tell you that mortality in Greece is still 1.33%. It's the worst, except for three countries in Europe. Watch what I'm telling you. Worst! You present recorded deaths of a thousand four hundred and thirty-nine while cases are only eighty thousand. You made the mistake not to quickly appreciate the power of the many tests. Tracing, tracking, isolation. Three words you never understood. As also, you did not understand what primary health would mean. This is the only way to dismantle public hospitals. I don't want to say any more. I can only tell you that Norway currently has 0.31%, Denmark has 0.28%. All the countries that once had many dead, Italy, Germany, have a mortality index less than us. The only countries with a worse indicator are Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. I don't have much time, and it's worth it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I don't want any more. You changed the Criminal Code to exclude the banks and to stop the self-determination for bankers' infidelity. You have given all the agencies an extension apart from the banks to exercise indictment. No bank has insulted. You didn't help anything. No public transport, no NSAs, no teachers, nothing. And what did you do? "You have shoved" with precarious loans to shipowners, parties businessmen, media. You passed the bankruptcy code. I have before me the maritime loans that are billions, which have actually made people whose bankers loaned them without any guarantee. We are talking about more than 30 billion euros and perhaps more. They are the official figures of the Bank of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u36	Close, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u37	I'm done. They've been published. And nobody dared to sue. The sound names on this list are from the Marinaki group, the Logothi group, Mr. Beniami.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u39	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u40	Oh, no. You're done. You're not finished. I'm sorry, but you have no more reason. You've been in eight and a half minutes. Let me manage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u41	Two judiciary associations, the Association of Judges of Prosecutors and the Association of Prosecutors are inviting the banks to do so. And we're waiting for the Ice Bay decision to see what's going to happen with that money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Papachristopoulos, unfortunately you misused time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u43	Did I abuse once talking to the million, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u44	No, you don't have the right to be an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u45	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u46	I would ask that the step be prepared and that I call on the Secretary of State for Development and Investment, Mr Tsakir, who has the floor for seven minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very quick. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget of 2021 is being discussed in plenary session of the Greek Parliament. It is a budget in the midst of a global crisis of health, economic, but more and more social, such a crisis that humanity has never seen since at least the Second World War. Uncertainty continues and will continue over the next few months throughout the European Union, which is of greater interest to us. 2020 will be closed with a major recession for all the Member States without exception. But in this debate and vote we are called upon to choose the best solution that will provide us with a budget with which we will overcome the economic crisis in 2021, quickly heal the wounds of the economy and stand up again, gaining the competitive advantage of an economy which is growing again rapidly. As the Minister of Finance said - and I copy his words precisely because they are very important - we need a budget based on the successful economic policies of the last year, which sets realistic and measurable targets, which promotes reforms that are distinguished from economic efficiency and social recompense, which is adapted to the requirements and needs created by each phase of the development of the health crisis. At the Ministry of Development and Investment and as far as my responsibilities are concerned, we have been able to create, in a minimum of time, financial liquidity instruments, using exclusively the resources of the NSRF and through the Greek Development Bank. The total support of the Greek economy over the last nine months from TEPIX and the Guarantee Fund has reached 5.4 billion euros. From the interest subsidy of existing business loans and the first reinforcement of the self-employed another EUR 1 billion went to the economy. From the non-refundable advance of the regions, which are also the resources of the NRP, 900 million euros have been allocated to date. Also, the repayable advance of the Ministry of Finance has been shaped to date at around 5.4 billion euros, as the Deputy Minister of Finance said before. Through these financial instruments alone, TPIX, the guarantee and repayable advance, total liquidity is expected to exceed EUR 12 billion to businesses. These tools will continue in 2021, which together with the other market and society support actions have now created a strong grid of support for all enterprises and workers. The Public Investment Programme has increased significantly in 2020 and will be fully implemented. From EUR 6 billion at the beginning of the year, it has been up to EUR 10 billion 420 million and at the moment when we are talking about its execution is at 94%. We'll get to 100%. The absorption of the NSRP, i.e. expenditure, which means money in the real economy, will close shortly below 60% of the year. As far as Union support is concerned and as has been mentioned in various instruments, we are now first as a country in the absorption of the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF and the second in the absorption of the European Social Fund, the ESF. In July 2019, I note that the absorption of the NRP was 27%. The 27% to 60% difference means in absolute figures 6 billion euros in the real economy in sixteen months. For 2021 we are working on the new NSRF, which together with the Recovery Fund and guided by the Greek economy development plan will mark the definitive turn of the Greek economy into a sustainable and competitive model, a model that can claim one of the first positions in both economic and social development within the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the budget, which, in my opinion, is the best combination of resources and actions that will be able to bring our economy back upwards again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister, not only because you were precise, but also because you gave time to fellow Members. Until the Step is prepared sanitary, I should like to call Mr. Maximos Charakopoulos from New Democracy. Then there is Mr. Socrates Vardakis from SYRIZA, followed by Mrs. Anna Euthymou from New Democracy. Mr. Harakopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget debate, which has been completed for two hundred years since the Greek Revolution, is taking place at a very difficult time. The pandemic to date has deprived three thousand six hundred twenty-five people of their lives, plunging their families into mourning, while thousands of others are suffering, with my special homeland Larissa at the center of the cyclone. The National Health System is at its limit and everyone is now aware of its irreplaceable value. In addition, the measures necessary to limit the spread of the virus have frozen economic activity. Thousands of businesses and hundreds of thousands of workers are experiencing a very difficult situation from the extension of the quarantine, and even during the Christmas celebrations, which is usually growing sharply. The psychology of all is adversely affected and there are already serious signs of society's fatigue. In these circumstances, as elected representatives of the citizens, we must go beyond the usual party controversy and remove the responsibility imposed by the moments, protect society from further spreading the pandemic, until the coronary vaccine - coming in the next few days - creates the appropriate rate of immunity, but also creates the conditions for the rapid recovery of the economy that will heal the wounds not only of the pandemic period but also of the long crisis of the last decade. This framework is about to shape the budget that we are discussing today. However, we regret to note once again that Acoustic Opposition proves to be below the circumstances, for not only isotopeically denies government proposals for the economy, but also uses the health crisis with micro-party criteria. And where in the first wave of the pandemic closed the eye at the parties in the squares, the second drops off the government that was not yet stricter. One in the nail and one in the petal, just to the grief of discontented citizens, by a dedicated opposition that does not say to abandon the well-known motto of demagogicism and populism, which he always condemns, but never suggests anything realistic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my particular satisfaction at the increase in defensive expenditure in the budget under discussion. From this point of view, just a year ago, I focused my speech on the need to bravely increase defence spending, the funds for the defence of the country. The previous period has made it clear to all of us that our country cannot rely on the backs of others. It has to be properly equipped to cancel any attempt to threaten its sovereign rights, even that of its own sovereignty. Because there must be no illusions about Ankara's intentions. This bitter vindication gives me the right to hope that last year's people who have been unfounded and impatiently quick to call me a soldier or a militarist are now aware that my proposals were merely realism, realism, which was once again confirmed by Europe's inability to act as it ought to be against Turkish reform. Unfortunately, countries such as Germany, Italy, Spain, above all their small - economic interests are deeply affected by the European vision, but also disappointment, because they are not taught by history. With regard to the general philosophy of the budget, they are undoubtedly governed by a development spirit based on the real facts, but also the commitments for which the citizens trusted New Democracy. It is a budget that has no new tax, but instead it has tax abolitions, such as the solidarity levy. It comes, after a number of decisions that were taken by households, such as the recent reduction in insurance contributions, the one which the alleged defender of workers, the weak, SYRIZA, did not vote. However, let me take the lead in the Pissaridis report on the reconstruction of the country's productive model to highlight the need for greater attention by the State in primary production. The pandemic crisis has shown, among other things, that monoculture tourism is very fragile, as unforeseen factors can blow everything away in the air. Agricultural production must take the place it deserves in the production structure. But that is why real cosmogenic measures will be needed, some of which are also mentioned in the Pissaridis report, such as incentives for the verticalisation of agricultural production and the business direction of cooperatives. As, Minister, energy costs are rocky for farmers, I hope that this budget will be the last to be spent on so-called 'farm oil', what the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government abolished overnight. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as the new budget, the European Union's ambitious recovery fund is being implemented, a new Marshall plan to deal with the consequences of the pandemic on the continent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. For our country, it means an influx of additional funds of almost 32 billion euros, of which 19.5 billion as direct grants added to almost 40 billion of the NRP over the period 2021-2027. In any case, 2021 is expected to be a year of station for Greece. We hope that it will also be the starting point for a substantial economic leap, leaving a difficult decade in the past with successive serious crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Please prepare for the Step in order to get Mr Socrates Vardakis, MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You have the floor, Mr Vardakis, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Let me ask two - three questions: If Tsipras and the convicted criminals Papa and Lagos were Prime Minister, if Tsipras were Prime Minister and we had a recession of 10.5% of the largest in Europe, 12% of the Greeks were paid 200 euros and 7% under 600 with the unemployment in a ballistic rise, if Tsipras had thirty two properties and three - four villas, million loans, if Tsipras was running around here and there to photograph without protective measures, if Tsipras was a Prime Minister and were dying COVID19 patients outside of METH, young people, if Tsipras was a Prime Minister and we had a hundred dead a day, really what would you and the non-discriminatory media? Think about what I said to you, because you have really enjoyed the political speech lately. Zero plus zero, equal to fourteen. I think you should remember that. That's the budget. A budget with a clear imprint of the government's obsessions, which believes that with the impoverishment of society, business and workers growth will come. A budget off-site and time, with figurative, ignorant forecasts. With a net imprint of the policies of recession, unemployment, poverty, and the impoverishment of society. You are dragging down the OAED's resources for allowances and employment programmes, really firing the benefits policy. Instead of looking after small businesses, you abandon them to their fate, to God’s mercy. From the repayable advance you exclude over half of the businesses and the rest of you put a debt nipple in the neck. Listen! Confiscate the non-refundable advance. Today, December 14th, hundreds of gaps in education. Thousands of non-educational children, no laptop and Internet. Shame on you, really! It gives the region and private individuals a donation to laptop schools and other means of communication. The hospitals are tight. Insecurity is felt by many workers, whom you once called heroes, and today they are absent for you, invisible. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have been the only government in the last thirty years to receive positive growth rates. We have forgotten, even temporarily, the term 'burned land'. Regulated debt and reinstate the lost dignity of the Greek worker after 2015, with regulated labour market, collective PPC contracts, APR, etc. You received an economy that had begun to give fruit to the Greek society, EUR 37 billion of money and the country outside the memorandum, a construction country. Now, Mr Georgiadis, can you tell us where the development you had suggested that the first half of your governance would have a rapid growth? He's probably locked up because of COVID -19 at the border. You are incapable of claiming European funds for other European countries. Mr. Mitsotakis, as a government you should be protecting yourself rather than strengthening fear. Mr. Mitsotakis, you invested in fear. You rule with fear. Fear of survival, the working jungle you establish, and even through pandemic. Health fear with hospitals without medical staff and ITH beds ghosts. Fear for the economy with business to put on a padlock. People's fear of the homes they will lose because of the bankruptcy code. Fear because the workers will lose after - listen! - after thirty - forty years, by law yours, compensation for dismissal. Fear because unemployment is exploding nightmares. Listen now - I'll testify for the Minutes! Fear because I heard Klaus Regling from the Commission talking about a EUR 2.5 billion budgetary bomb per year due to three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding pensions. Fear because the Greek people will pass black Christmas because of a reduced Christmas gift. Fear because low-popular strata, i.e. low-wage unemployed, were oppressed. I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. Fear because you kept nearly EUR 4 billion from the family income of Greek households. Fear because the long-term unemployed for the first time stay out of support measures. Fear because farmers, farmers, fishermen, beekeepers, i.e. the last pillar of development, are essentially outside the support measures. This is your budget, Mr Mitsotakis. By the way, Mr Brutsi, do not dare to bring to the Greek Parliament the bill you have in your drawers for n.1264 and the abolition of eight hours after a hundred years! It's something that no right-wing government dared. Today the Greek people, Mr Mitsotakis, pays the inertia and arrogance of your Government. You walked blindly with communication and not effective management of the pandemic, with criminal errors. Didn't we tell you to open tourism with health protocols? You got a command from the tour operators. They pulled your ear and opened. Do you remember, Mr. Mitsotakis, what you said to Santorini? 'We have opened and waited for you'. You probably meant "Opening and waiting for the coronary". The problem started by incoming polluted tourists in August, says the Aristotle University. I'll see you later. We didn't tell you to open schools with twenty - five students in the Chamber and without cleaners. We didn't tell you not to have done already planned recruitments to education. We didn't tell you not to perform any elementary tests. You even remember the EGE's inability to do the statutory check. We didn't tell you not to invoice and do not prescribe the tests. How many millions have you moved to the private centers since the stall of the Greek people, who were forced to control COVID -19? And you're talking about a social state and you're not ashamed. Didn't we tell you, Mr. Mitsotakis, to fill buses? But we told you to activate the immovable tourist buses after a hundred days of strike for the people of the tourist buses. Thousands of buses were in the yards and you had the world conspiring in the means of transport. Mr. Mitsotakis, you told Thessaloniki that you had no full information on the situation. "Two years are forecasts for our country after the dramatic increase in incidents of COVID -19. Trialing of patients is foreseen until the end of September", Aristotle University, August 2. I shall put this before you, Mr President, for the Minutes. Prime Minister, you played the life of the Greek people Kroner - letters. Now listen carefully, because the lies are over: on 9 November, 'New KRITI', journalist George Sachini, Mr President, and I shall submit it in the Minutes. On 16 March 2020, Prime Minister, arrived at an important and fully justified letter from nine leading scientists. In fact, some have played and still play a role in the committee of infectious diseases. They showed a one-way ride. In particular, they proposed that you deal with the upcoming and most dangerous pandemic wave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u52	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u53	I'm closing, Mr. President. Why, Mr. Mitsotakis, why, Mr. Kikilia, have you hid, buried the letter? You will answer for this to the Greek people. You criminalised the Greek people. And you finally prove yourself not only incompetent, but also dangerous. I'm closing, Mr. President. I want, Prime Minister, to assure you, and you and your government, that the Zaloggos' dance will be on your own. Of course, we will not allow you to take assemble a proud people, the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u54	I would ask that the Step be settled in order for the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Anna Euthymou, to speak for seven minutes and then the Member of the Change Movement, Mr Baran Bourhan, to speak. Here, Mrs. Evthymou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is of the utmost importance because it is shaped in a very difficult health and economic situation, with difficult multiplier effects for today, which have an impact on the near future, but which also have wide social implications. For the majority of the issues, my colleagues and ministers have been extensively mentioned. I have carefully studied the budget and I will concentrate on two specific issues. The first axis of my speech refers to labour and social issues, for which I draw a great deal of interest from my professional occupation as a worker. The aim of this budget is twofold in terms of the working part. Firstly, the retention of unemployment and, secondly, the development of sustainable employment prospects. With regard to the retention of unemployment, the Government has taken concrete action both for 2020 and for 2021. I shall refer specifically to two development actions. The first is to grant insurance contributions for the creation of 100 000 new jobs, and the second is to reduce by three percentage points the insurance contributions. It is an action that also has a development perspective, because it creates new jobs and combats undeclared work. Of course, you will allow me to point out here that the measure to reduce insurance contributions will pay better to the full extent of its development, provided that we have, as far as possible, the fewer job losses, as far as possible, as far as possible. As regards the development of sustainable employment prospects, this is reflected in the budget in the Public Investment Programme for the Ministry of Labour (page 91, Table 314). In fact, there is also one direction in supporting young people. I stress that it is necessary to give support to young people, to the people of my generation, to the people represented by all the young Members of my generation here, who have really suffered a ten-year Memorandum Crisis, and now this pandemic crisis is coming up to add and become another blockage to our most productive age. I know this very well and experientially, because I am the youngest MEP in my region and so I have a strong interaction with young people. In this context, therefore, financial support for priority business initiatives in the innovation sectors and start-ups are directed towards the advisory support of young people, the programme of multi-purpose first-time work experience. And all this is important to do with measurable results. As far as the social footprint of this budget is concerned, it is indeed an undeniable need to support vulnerable social groups and the lowest wages. This is also shown in investigations. The first research which I call for is recent in EUROSTAT, which shows precisely that income is reduced in the most vulnerable groups, which have the lowest income, and it is the ones most at risk of losing jobs. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I also have a second survey showing that, as far as social inequalities are concerned, the way this indicator is removed from economic prosperity. I have the design and all the research published in ECONOMIST. I'm tabling it for the Minutes, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Now, has this budget received this fact? Yes, he's seen it. It has received it for the benefit of a privileged nature, which is increased by EUR 600 million (page 67 of the budget, Table 3.6). And since I have heard Mrs Fotou saying: 'What is this level which increases the benefits?', I would therefore reply to her that as far as benefits of a preferential nature are concerned, it is on page 67 of the budget. In this context, it is important to do all we can. And I heard Mrs Adamopoulou - and I join her in - in supporting mothers and reintegration into the labour market. And this is provided for in this budget, with day care stations, with the establishment of a new institutional framework necessary for me to give women - mothers - I am a mother of two children and I have experienced this very strongly - to have paid time for employment. In fact, I am also presenting a report on the Minutes showing inequalities in work and in income between women and men. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Here I would like to make a reference to an issue which also has social implications. I am referring to outstanding pensions. Because of my professional involvement with work, it is reasonable to have received many claims for insured persons. I have been following this since the beginning of my term, and I have also raised it with the tool of parliamentary control. My seats are public. I will only mention the fact that, as shown on page 133 of the budget, there has been a significant increase in the new pension applications since the beginning of the year. I would add to this that this pandemic will also create a new wave of retirement, as the experts say, which will be added to the already cumulated ones, and which will have to be addressed. Indeed, I think it is of the utmost importance for the Prime Minister's personal expression and commitment to this issue, and I am very optimistic and sure that he will resolve it effectively. In fact, it is my belief that the use of technology by digitising all the necessary elements for their rapid processing will make a significant contribution to tackling this social problem. In fact, I have developed these things to Mr Pierracakis, who has admittedly demonstrated significant progress in promoting e-government. On the second axis of my position, it is the development dimension of the budget, this budget, which is one of the key tools of the government to promote its reforms to define a modern economic model in the context of the principles of our paralysis, adapted to the new data created by COVID and, of course, by exploiting the European Union's financial instruments. This is included in the budget, i.e. the creation of a modern economic model, which exploits the comparative advantages of our country and, in particular, in quality tourism, in increasing value added... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be very brief, Mr President. ... and promoting the export guidelines for agricultural products, combining the food advantages in our tourism, strengthening green growth and digital convergence in the recovery and support of small and medium-sized enterprises. I have publicly stated that it is very important to support small and medium-sized enterprises, not only because they contribute very much to our economy, but because they are the main employer. They give eight out of ten jobs. It is therefore necessary to support sectors of small and medium-sized enterprises, such as tourism, food, commerce, services, self-employed, scientists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u56	Finish it, please. It's your last sentence, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u57	The last, Mr President. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget is a policy of major importance in a difficult time. That is why the ministers, the Undersecretaries, the MPs and all the members of our party are required to cooperate and coordinate together in achieving a great effort that requires study, planning and implementation of our policies, so that we can address society in an efficient and efficient way. I am therefore voting in favour of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u58	Mr Burhan Barran, Member of the Change Movement, has the floor now. New Democracy MP Athanasios Davakis will follow and then Ms Sia Anagnostopoulou, MP SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr Baran, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the specific budget submitted by the Minister of Finance to Parliament contains unprecedented data on the country's macro-economic sizes. The forecast for the recession is 10.5%, while the recovery for 2021 is 4.8%. It is clear, therefore, that the current picture is frustrating, and the expectations of rapid recovery in 2021 now prove to be in vain. We, as a Change Movement, had predicted that the recession would reach a double digit. A few weeks after the draft, it was enough to overthrow your predictions from the initial 4.5% to 10.5%, as well as completely utopian was the forecast for 7.5% growth that led you to forced landing. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an honour to represent part of the citizens of Xanthi who have elected me. That is why I cannot comment on the reduced budget for the Decentralised Administration of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. In the context of the reductions made in the financing of decentralised administration from EUR 42 million in 2020, it will receive approximately EUR 700,000 less for 2021. You are well aware, Prime Minister, that the geostrategic position of Thrace makes it potentially an energy, commercial, productive and cultural hub of the Balkans, Europe and Eurasia. So, for your part, what are you doing? Instead of supporting this multi-faceted place, you are reducing funding and we, in order to develop this region with the many peculiarities, rely on cooperation with the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the university, which are familiar with the values of the region. The main features of our area are our geographical location with the cross-borderity and the connection of three continents and multiple maritime routes, the rich relief and the unique alteration of the sea and the mountain volume offered for multi-faceted primary, secondary and tertiary production, as well as the environmentally friendly energy production infrastructure, as well as the separate living material that is mainly the university and our multiculturality. In particular, the applications of specialized knowledge of the university and the major challenges of high technology are a priority for Thrace and the region as a whole. The skilled workers' hands on the particular development features of the region, I mean the development specialization schools under the auspices of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace with educational programs of the universities, could be the lever for the development of the region. In the summer of 2021, we are all waiting for EUR 32 billion to be disbursed from the Recovery Fund. Really, tell us. Of the total amount to be disbursed, what will be allocated to the most expensive land segment of the country? What projects, what reforms and what investments will you make? We'll be here waiting to see your actions. I would also like to say a few words about the multifaceted ESS that you have fought for. As you realised late, the ESS lifted all the weight of pandemic. Unfortunately, he is once again the poor relative in this budget. For example, I will report to you at the Xanthi Hospital, which is facing serious problems in its operation, due to cuts in state funding. I found out for myself all the shortcomings in equipment, but also in health - care personnel, who forcefully tries to cope with the adverse working conditions against the invisible enemy. Prime Minister, hospital workers are not awkward. They are saving our lives and they have borne a burden that humanity has been dealing with for too many years. So let the government tell us how it solves the chronic health problems in its policy. In particular now, as a psychiatrist, I want to point out something very important. Once again, the funding of mental health policies is moving very low. The need to finance the mental health sectors is immediate, since the catastrophic impact of the coronary on the mental health of the citizens is apparent, when the needs are increasing due to the situation. Unfortunately, we did not see you beating your head on the problem on this major issue either. I just want you to know that isolation, loss of income, uncertainty and fear of the future bring new mental illnesses or worsen existing ones. Do you intend, even at the last moment, to do the self-evident thing? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the citizens expect you to make areas for the improvement and progress of this place. It is clear that the krone pandemic has forced many companies to allow their staff to work from home and at the same time gave them the opportunity to test themselves and familiarize themselves with new and more efficient technologies, which has shown that remote work is a possible operating model, with a successful outcome in these difficult times. A stable productivity rate was thus observed and an opportunity to reduce their operating costs. But, in the long term, in the post-Koronian era, it is obvious that there will be an adverse impact on the market and the lives of all of us, smaller costs in shops, focusing, in the areas of culture, in the retail trade and so on. Given that employers in the above activities employ a large number of employees, it is now certain that there will be a significant impact on their employment in these sectors, leading in the future to the creation of surplus personnel and job losses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute. I shall conclude, Mr President. Do you want me to go further and talk about robotics and artificial intelligence? Have you really calculated all this on your agenda, the impact on the workplace? So we call on you - to conclude - on the basis of the proposals we have put forward as a Change Movement - to have a political will to leave the country from the solid stones that have been entangled. Finally humiliate the Greek family, the Greek citizen who is experiencing unprecedented situations, psychologically collapsed, seeking a real hope for tomorrow. What we need - and we demand - is a national plan to support our country and get out of the crisis in a direct and substantial way. Thank you very much and wish good holidays. Thank you, Mr President, for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u60	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u61	During an earlier speech, the newly elected president of America Joe Biden said: "Don't tell me what you think is important. Show me your budget and I will understand what you evaluate as important." Indeed, where it chooses, ladies and gentlemen, a government to spend money and what money, what amounts it chooses to spend, is the best indication of its policies and ideological priorities. The first priority, therefore, of this government is the return to the middle-class of economic freedom that has been deprived of overtaxation and the other policies of the unforgettable period of 2015-2019. HNVIA and the taxation of natural persons were reduced, the tax on every child increased, strengthening the institution of the family. The insurance contributions were reduced, the company tax was reduced to 24%, the newly-born companies tax was reduced, providing support to one of the most dynamic sectors in the Greek economy. A second key priority is the strengthening of our Armed Forces, especially in this dire climate which has been going on for several months. In the years of the previous government you cannot imagine what we have heard in this area. I will just say one thing as chairman of the Committee on Military Programmes: in the seventeen months of the New Democracy Government forty-eight programmes have passed, when in four years the SYRIZA and ANEL government had passed fifty-four. At the moment, the Rafah aircraft acquisition programme - the eighteen aircraft - the upgrading of fresh NGOs, the torpedo program of our submarines '214', the programme of Romeo helicopters, the programme of the 'national rifle' and the 'national vehicle' which is on a very good road, the F-16 and C-130, as well as the C-27 transport aircraft - the contract of upgrading helicopters all marks a new era in the field of our national defence, as well as the absolute comparative advantage that the country has, the men and women of the Armed Forces, who must now receive special attention from the Greek state. In addition to strengthening the country's deterrent strength, the government has taken serious measures - due to the fact of the pandemic - to strengthen the health protection of the primary health of the Greek region. In my place, Laconia, the Ministry of Health has placed medical, nursing and administrative personnel. The great challenge - I believe - of the Government, which we support with our vote, is at the moment reconstruction, reconstructing - if you like - the recasting of the map of primary health. Things happen, especially in health centres, which you need to see, creating a favourable perspective for the immediate blocking sector, which is the primary health in the Greek region. The main priority, too, is the support of the primary sector, a sector which, as Mr Charakopoulos quite rightly said before, has been severely affected by the pandemic and shows, however, the comparative advantage that it has in relation to services such as tourism. It needs to be looked at further. All that has been done is specific and makes us feel well. However, we need to escape from tangles which exist in the ELGA system, for example, an archaic organism that needs to be changed, but also from others that make up the situation in the primary sector. The New Democracy, as a large folk party, has never ignored social justice and support for the weak, which it basically represents. Incentives were given to address subnatality, the OPEKA was strengthened to support vulnerable social groups, granted by advance payments and extended the heating allowance and supported the long-term unemployed in a job-creating programme. The huge issue that many colleagues have mentioned in this Chamber from all the wings, which is the awarding of pensions, particularly to us in the Greek region of the OGA pensions - which we all know the pensioner of the OGA does not receive a temporary pension, with what that means for his life - needs to be looked at. It is something that we have received from you because of the Katrugalos Act and the various restructurings that Mr Petropoulos has done in the field of ECA and the other funds that he has abolished. We are called upon, ladies and gentlemen, this year to draw up a policy of global uncertainty, an uncertainty that has been highlighted by the pandemic issue, which, in our view, does not want to support the government further. However, at any rate, at the moment, we must unite in something that is, as the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, said, a secret mourning of Greek society, of the Greek people. We have to admit. As we have looked at the first pandemic wave, we are looking at the second, despite the difficulties that have arisen because of summer. The budget reinforces the priorities I have mentioned. These are priorities which we all see in the two hundred years - which we will celebrate next year - of our national existence must be a key policy. In conclusion, I would like to refer to a number of key points in my region, which are - if you like - consistent requests and I think that the government and its representative ministers should look at them in particular. Seeing the Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Digalakis, I am thinking of what has been happening for two and a half years in Laconia over the implementation of the Gavroglou Law and the transfer of Sparta Nursing School to Tripoli. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. We have said a lot of this sacred step, but unfortunately something is going on at the moment, which creates great questions. What's that? As many of you may know, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is setting up a new hospital in Sparta by 2025. The invocation of the teachers of the School of Nursing two years ago was that the existing Sparta Hospital did not provide appropriate clinical training for students in nursing. Now - and I directly ask the State Secretary or someone to answer me logically - the "Stavros Niarchor" Foundation comes in and calls for synergy with the Department of Nursing at the University of Peloponnese and accepts a negative answer. And I wonder why, when the main argument put forward by Sparta in order to transfer nursery to Tripoli was clinical education. This is not what you want - a personal struggle by a Member of the Greek region for a local issue. It is an issue that affects common sense and I call on the Ministry of Education's political leadership, as I have done with Mrs Keramea, to take a stand. Also, on road issues, as Minister Karamanlis said yesterday, special emphasis must be placed on Laconia, such as the Sparta-Gythium road, which is being studied by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the bypass of the settlements of Skala and Vlachotis, a huge issue that must finally go ahead, in the management of the water problem that exists in the Molaean plain, but also in the issues relating to the irrigation of Trinasus and Kelefina. An important intervention must be made in the caves of Diros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u62	Close, Mr. Davaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. Also, at Sparta's student home and other issues, such as Sparta's museum, which has been on the right track, such as the more general cultural program of the Ministry of Culture, which, after many years, shows tangible results for Laconia and many other things, for which all of us - regardless of ideologies and ideologies - are fighting. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with this: the Minister of National Defence yesterday said: 'at least you of the opposition - all of the opposition - support and vote for the national defence budget'. It will be a message of unity and unity of the Greek people, which we represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u64	Please prepare the Step in order for SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, to speak for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u65	Nine minutes the previous speaker spoke!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u66	You're wrong, it's been noted here how much it is. It was eight minutes and thirty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u67	Time-consuming, I photographed them with my cell phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u68	Now, since I closed it in eight by mistake, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u69	You're doing good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u70	No, I'm not doing well, I'm alerting everyone, and I'm glad you're pointing it out to me, so I'm going to highlight it with more emphasis, as I'm going to stress it to you, right? It's good to look at it all, Mr. Alexiadis. Don't be one. I make the remarks from here and there, and warn everyone. I can't just turn off the microphone, it doesn't suit me. I have this gun, but I don't apply it. Here, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes, and we do not have any comments from Mr Alexiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. We are at the end of a very difficult year in which we are counting victims of the coronary pandemic, we are in a very great health crisis and in a deep economic crisis with a very future ahead of it. Could things have happened differently? They could have had it not been for the New Democracy government. The Government of the New Republic has failed miserably not because of mistakes, failures, omissions or the unforeseen nature of the pandemic. That would be perfectly understandable in such a period and not just. She failed because she couldn't change her program at all. I hear MPs and ministers these days saying all pride that 'in spite of pandemic, we are continuing our programme'. It cannot be a government when it turns the ship of history, because it makes a pandemic, not to turn the ship, not to see society. Why, though, was New Democracy? Incompetent? Oh, no. It's a great idea. And I would not even call it idealism, but from a right-wing perspective, which always sees society with a limited lens. She doesn't see the whole society and that's why she's staying in her plan. For this limited society, pandemic has not had huge consequences. Why, while we are in a pandemic, does he constantly ask for consensus and behaves with incredible arrogantness, with enthusiasm and hours - that is, all the time, I would say, in a gross way to the former government of SYRIZA? Why is he doing this? He wants to end with this parenthesis, because it cannot be said that some non-legal, uninvited visitors came to Maximos and changed the perspective that a government has to see and do differently. This troubles the SYRIZA Government, and this is what is trying to do in the middle of a pandemic, asking on the other hand for consensus on a programme of its own, which leads to the biggest social issue, what started until 2014 in the economic crisis. The New Democracy considered what was given to the public health system to be halved. He didn't consider thrown money - that's the program - the money to the private. He considered money to be spent on education, considered the money to the public education system to be thrown away and left it unarmed, as well as health, while he did not see any money thrown out to legislate at the time of the pandemic in favour of private schools. He considered the forward support of society and small and medium-sized enterprises to be money thrown. He used the middle class, as he used too much to become a government. He used all this, got poor and sent to unemployment a lot of people, because he didn't want to use money ahead, because he thinks it's a waste of money. We could go on and say a lot about it. But what even worse does New Democracy do? How will this program look to be unique and what SYRIZA had was populist or was it to fly? It's populism to talk about community support, and it's excellence to throw money on private or channels. Two were the big weapons, the fall in the information, which we have seen with Elena Akrita, so that there is no citizen thinking, and on the other hand, the targeting of public space, demonstrations or any meeting with health protocols, as well as the targeting of young people. Because young people must walk around in the 'big walk' and not open up their own 'walks', as a youth must always do in a democratic society. Mr. Digalakis, you're here. Do you agree with the humiliation of universities, universities and students and police domination at universities? You need to get a seat, you owe it to your history as a university. But where the deep sense of ownership, arrogantness and - let me speak - not the lack of empathy, but the existence of social and political anaesthesia, is cultural heritage. Last night I heard the Minister of Culture. I was ashamed of her. As SYRIZA and personally as a sector leader of culture I diligently avoided putting the Acropolis into the "slash" of micro-party confrontation. She didn't care at all. He came to this step and said unconscious lies and used the Acropolis. Instead of saying nothing and humility toward the largest and most emblematic monument of the world heritage and asking for an apologies to this situation, to the cement and to the flood, the Minister came here and put them with SYRIZA. He knows why he's messing with SYRIZA. She was the life-long secretary at the Ministry of Culture prior to the SYRIZA government. And the non-legal residents - tenants came and changed the "maya". Things have changed and this situation is not working. It came, therefore, and without shame, 'emptied' and their own partners. He cleared Mr. Corres for whom he otherwise cuts. And he "emptied" him for the simple reason that the flood study should have been carried out by the NSA, where Mr. Korres was chief and until December 2014 was the same political leader. So Mr. Corres. And since the "Mudu-Turkish" didn't do anything, why didn't she do something right afterwards? Why did the Acropolis cement, this disgrace? I didn't say that. I avoided saying it like that. He threw the cement just to take pictures of the Prime Minister there, giving the Acropolis to a partner. I'll see you around the Acropolis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But where the whole concept of property seems to be the export of antiquities. You know what was said in this House, why does the Greek people have to listen to them? There's a lot of finds in museums, so what should we do? 'Business asUSal'! What do they say? What the colonists used to say once. They found out and said: "What barbarians should do with these? They cannot use them, they do not know their value, let us take them." Let us all wake up to what is happening, because culture is the printing of what is going on throughout society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u72	Complete, Mrs. Readstopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, two things for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u74	No, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u75	Only two minutes, Mr President, and I shall conclude. The budget of 2021 for the Ministry shall be insufficient, shall be less than 2019. This money you're planning to support artists...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u76	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u77	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, I can't give you any more time. Mr Alexiadis will protest!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u78	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Before you gave eight minutes and thirty-five seconds and now you can't?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u79	No, no, no, no, no. Finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u80	Just one word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u81	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u82	What do you want, my colleague? I am very sorry, but all my colleagues must speak. That's something we have to respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u83	The money given for culture is 10 million euros less than the Pecha list. What is planned for 2021 is only EUR 2.5 million more for this whole disaster. In addition, you forecast 80% increase in expenditure for the political offices for 2021 compared to the 2019 budget. You're judging what the program is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u84	Photo by now, Mr Alexiadis, if possible. Since I want to be transparent during my current presidency, I would like to mention the length of speech by a number of MPs: Mr Schussakis seven minutes and ten seconds, Mrs Agathopoulos - I do not know if he is here - eight minutes and twenty seconds - Mr Constantinidis six minutes and thirty seconds, Mrs Gara - I do not know if she is here - eight minutes and fifteen seconds, Mr Antoniadis seven minutes and seven seconds, Mr Papachristopoulos eight minutes and fifty-five seconds, Mr Charakopoulos seven minutes and thirty-five minutes, Mr Vardakis seven minutes and fifty-five seconds, Mrs Euthy eight minutes and ten seconds, Mr Bourhan eight minutes and five seconds, Mr David eight minutes and thirty-five seconds. For Mrs. Anagnastopoulou. You saw it. No, well, nothing else, but... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't complain, Mrs. Ignastopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u85	I'm not complaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u86	Oh, no. Others protest. You have lawyers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u87	We are in solidarity with SYRIZA, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u88	The Minister has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u89	I'm just gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, you referred to the subject of academic freedoms at universities. I wanted to ask you this: do you agree with the image of the Dean of the University of Athens that he has been hanged by the sign of foreign universities inside his office?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u90	Why are you asking us, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u91	Is this a Greek university image?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u92	Why are you asking us? Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u93	I'll tell you right away why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u94	Excuse me, but are you going to let the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u95	I'll tell you why I'm asking. I ask why, as a dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete, when outsiders had camped outside my office, I went to the then Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, asked for his assistance and refused it. But because today the debate is on the budget, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, and you said that the government does not support public education, I will tell you about my area of competence, the universities. The budget is increased by 5%. Extraordinary funding of EUR 16 million is now being provided to universities. Fifty-fifty-fifty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. But most importantly, it's something else. You served as Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Education with responsibility for universities. When we took over the Ministry of Education, no one could be sure how many students have our universities, how many teachers have our universities and yet you made budget allocations. How did you do it? You have made them "top past", which your dear colleague likes. You have made them by arbitrary decisions of the Minister, without the objective elements being taken into account. The budget allocated to universities in 2021 and in the years to come is allocated on the basis of objective indicators, so that the money made available to our universities is placed on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u98	The rest of the parliamentary control. Mrs Kefaliannis will be given the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u99	I want to talk, because the Minister mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u100	The rest of the parliamentary control. The Minister took the floor and explained a few things. Here, Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u101	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u102	Don't interrupt. Respect the process. Make parliamentary control. Today we are talking about the budget. Here you go, Mrs. Kefaliannis, the reason comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year is my 15th budget speech. Most people have been talking about the harsh decade of the crisis, but this year we are talking about a really difficult, complex budget of special conditions designed within an unprecedented health crisis affecting the planet and the country for nearly a year. We are talking about a fierce pandemic which results in a historical economic crisis which gives rise to the urgent need to maintain social cohesion, to protect the weak and vulnerable groups, but also to keep the hope of a better day alive. 2020 has changed global stability violently. It has caused a chain of consequences for human activities, labour relations, citizens' income, the educational process. He radically overthrowed any prior design. Greek society is being hard tested by the results of the pandemic. There is fear, insecurity, conditions that are unprecedented and pressing, which are injuring social cohesion. The National Health System gives heroic battles, reaching or even surpassing its limits. The Greek family is surrounded and adapted to new conditions in the educational process, social and human relations. The Greek economy is again affected by a severe recession. But he stands up, offering an important safety net, a valuable breath to keep the hope of a better next day alive. In 2020, EUR 24 billion was allocated to support measures for the Greek society and another EUR 7.5 billion will be made available for 2021, because the 2021 budget is still, as I said, specific conditions, but also major uncertainties. It continues its last year's economic policies aimed at keeping society up in this unprecedented recession. It invests in European funding resources that were secured in July 2020 and will begin to be channelled to the Greek economy in 2021. It designs concrete reforms to change the country's productive model, green growth, modernisation of state structures, increasing employment, elimination of undeclared work, digital transition, with our additional powerful weapon to Greece's solvency abroad, upgrading the Greek economy, our credibility in international markets. The long-lived recovery planned for 2021 has a "bridge" of all the measures taken so far by the Government, namely the reform of the income tax on natural persons, the reduction of HPAI, the income tax on legal persons, insurance contributions. This strategy of reducing tax and insurance burdens and encouraging the creation of new jobs also continues in 2021 with the reduction in the insurance contributions of employees in the private sector. At the same time, there are measures of EUR 3 billion as a special reserve for dealing with the financial consequences of the pandemic. This is the answer to the objections of the Reconciliation to reduce health expenditure for 2021, because the costs of dealing with the pandemic are exceptional and unstable and the path we have before us is still long. The political commitment to support the ESS and all those affected must be unnecessarily unnecessarily, because the great lesson of pandemic is the need for a modern public health system, for an effective welfare system for all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at last year's budget speeches, we will easily understand that in a few months' time everything has changed. But what remains stable is our plan, what brought New Democracy to power. It is a project with clear economic objectives and specific social policies for a modern state, flexible and essential, which serves the citizen in terms of democracy and transparency, for an effective economic policy with more social justice. Not only does the great and multifaceted crisis that we are experiencing cancel them, but on the contrary it makes them even more urgent. It is now that we need as ever a more effective ESS, better public education, substantial support for its culture and people who have been so hurt by the pandemic. Here you will allow me, because I have heard before Mrs Sis Anagnostopoulos, to say that we can only remind you of SYRIZA's completely ineffective policy in culture, such as the chaos in collective management through the collapse in substantially the collective management and collection of copyright and to recommend greater attention and self-awareness, because SYRIZA and culture have failed. I return to my position to say that now we need more social policies for vulnerable groups, increased labour market participation in underemployed groups such as women and young people, alleviating social exclusion to strengthen social cohesion. The reduction of social inequalities needs to be at the heart of an overall strategy for sustainable and fair growth. In this direction, it is important that the social benefits for 2021 are increased by EUR 600 million. But there's still a road ahead of us. At the moment, in the midst of a crisis, women's employment is almost twice as high as men in the world. If we do not take immediate measures, there will be serious consequences for economic growth and for gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen, after a decade of economic crisis, our country is called upon to face this great trial, with the least possible social and economic consequences. It is again called upon to overcome a multi-faceted crisis that starts with the pandemic and its consequences and ends up with our national issues. Let's not blind ourselves. In 2021 it will still be a difficult year, in which, above all, the strengths and abilities of all of us, the government will be tested to implement a budget of need and hope, of counter-population to feel the history of moments, the burden and the responsibility of its role, of all citizens to endure with maturity and to wait for the best days soon to come. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The Government of New Democracy on the front line of battle, ignoring the conflicts and divisions, and in this great crisis it will once again stand up to the circumstances, as is appropriate in its history. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u104	The floor will now be taken by my colleague from SYRIZA Mr.Tryph of Alexiadis, then it is Mr. Kalafatis, then Mrs. Jack, Mr. Stylis and Mr. Psychoyos, and the tenth cycle is closed. Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Anyone watching me on television or asking us "why are you going to the House?", I tell him that we are going to the budget debate. Unfortunately, however, with the time-consuming responsibilities of the political system, what we are doing today is not a budget debate. In my opinion, it is a depository of hypocrisy and supposedly seriousness, because in a country where we have a hundred dead a day and where we have unprecedented conditions, even if we agree to the two hundred ninety, the three hundred MPs here, we cannot change a single amount from one ministry to another. It is a time-consuming problem, which I stress must be resolved. But let us come to the budget and come to my concern about the financial staff, my concern, not for health reasons - I see them as well - but my concern about their political expression. Because I am attending both the Committee on Economic Affairs and the House in their speeches, four times we have discovered my colleagues and I have made the same speeches, the same arguments, the same things. Repeat is the mother of learning, but she is also a sister of boredom! You don't convince anyone anymore by saying the same thing and the same. I can take this as the absence of arguments. Of course, however, there is one question: What is going on? Why is that so? I don't understand. The printer broke down and had the previous speech and they say the same thing? And I don't understand why you're doing this. When you do not respond to the issues that opposition raises here, to questions, to clarifications, to political arguments, and you, from weakness - that is probably - you cannot answer. So I will ask again one of the next speakers who come out here and take over SYRIZA that it was from the flood in the Acropolis to what was dust that day in Parnitha, this: Who brought the country to the disaster in 2010? SYRIZA? Who imposed barbaric Memorandum Policies from 2010-2014? Who said in January 2015 that 'we will not have money for salaries and pensions in a moment', knowing that we have elections? Who received a reserve of EUR 37 billion in 2019 in the elections, and did not deliver a half? I remember from last year in the House - I read the exact words to keep him from being blamed - on the 17-12-2019 by Mr Sculakis, who said: 'This is the biggest gave' - for the EUR 37 billion he received - 'for the greatest failure of economic policy'. You killed yourself politically and you still haven't understood. It has not yet been found one of you to wonder why it has "washed" the world into taxes. What did you want with the 37 billion euro pillow? Are you still saying that? Are you still supporting them? Will you go out and ask for an apology? Are you going to go out and say if that's the case or if you've regretted? Of course, from fans, interlocutors, like Mr Tzameri and Mrs Xafa, we do not expect them to do to us, to SYRIZA, lessons on the issue of public debt, as we have heard from the Stepma. I will not insist too much on these, not because of time, but because I think that the speech by Achtzioglu, as well as the joint statement by Tsakalotou - Ahtsoglou, with the eight questions - lies of the financial staff are answering these issues. I will come to the favourite issues, the tax, the favourite in the sense of the Constitution, as to the fact that we all have to be involved in tax burdens according to our powers. In the new budget you say so many times and you are right, that you do not have any new taxes. It's not like that. Of course, what goes through, into change, and you don't say it many times - we will say it too many times for the citizen to understand - is that in the new year, it is anticipated that we will have EUR 3.6 billion - I say it again, EUR 3.6 billion, an ENPI and something more, namely - tax revenue. If anyone reads your budget or your speeches, that - says - will come from growth. But what growth? Because we are constantly listening to the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, productive businesses, everyone and not development, but we have a disaster ahead of us last year. Will this come from various tax arrangements that you have made, for example, since the abolition of the solidarity levy, where large-scale private hospitals, large-scale pharmaceutical companies, large-scale insurance companies will not have an increase in tax burden, but will they also in some cases have a very large tax burden? One that takes EUR 5,500 a month will have a monthly benefit of about EUR 300. One who gets 18 000 euros - there are also such executives - will have about 1,500 euros, 1,439 euros monthly. So I ask you: If you have such a great increase in tax revenue, if it is time to give 1 euro - we are not saying that you will give 100 euros, why do you have to take it, what we have said - in the medical, nursing staff of public hospitals to teachers, nurses, teachers, teachers, military, police officers, porters, to all those who are on the front line of battle for the coronary and for those who are being cut off and say the various issues? It's an idea, Minister, since you're here. In order to increase tax revenues for more than EUR 3.5 billion, I would suggest that you move directly into controls, first of all, in the banking system, because we see that where businesses find it difficult some politicians get very easy loans. We should also know which banks are these, which relatives, who are the ones giving so much loans. What you need to check, because it is the responsibility of the tax services, is whether repayment of loans, if loan instalments, i.e., is in tax declarations and is presumption. Because we understand that, when you have a problem, you get a loan - supposedly a loan - to solve your problem. But when you defile this loan, will it ever be controlled, especially for politicians who have knowledge like Alexiadis, whether it is a presumption of repayment of credit obligations, especially for those who have a lot of money or not? And because I hear about information from neighbours, I would like to ask a question: for witnesses in the public interest, who here and at European level are defending their function and their contribution to increasing tax revenues, in the past year you have attacked a whole and got caught with the goat on the back when you went to reduce legal protection and we denounced you. Now you come and say things about what information they bring. Information is brought to many places by neighbors on all these issues. I close, however, because I want to respect time and I do not want to give any alibi - not the President but more generally - for criticism, with just one word on the nationalities. I listened with great disappointment yesterday to the Member of the government party saying publicly, by Parliament, that sanctions for Turkey are not an end in itself. What's an end in my mind, understand? Where's the red line? When the country's sovereign rights are being violated? When the "ORUC REIS" makes walks out of Tinos and those who have a country house there swell it up? When we have problems in Famagusta, in Agia Sophia? Where's the red line for you? For you who, without any shame, complained of patriotism and patriotism issues, about you calling "daughter, Gerun", when we had the problems in Europe, about you who said you believed Erdogan more than the Greek Prime Minister. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u106	The next speaker is the secretary of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Stavros Kalafatis, because my friend Typho has been a bit stung by me now, I have to say that I am fifty-six years on my side, whether as an EPE or as a New Democracy, and neither I nor the overwhelming majority of my colleagues have anything to do with Mr Jamer and Mrs Xafa. Mr. Jameris has his own way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u107	Well done, Mr President, you're doing well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Kalafatis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the budget, on our economic road map, on the steps and goals of our country in the time that comes, we must know where we are and where we want to go. We must count on what time we have come to meet in our way, challenges, adversities, opportunities. And this is much more true today, when the whole world is moving into the pit of pandemic. However - and it is sad for the country - some pretend they don't understand. Some people are happy with the difficulties and expect that we do not succeed. Some people are trying to convince the world that it's the government's fault for the pandemic and the global recession. Some return to "anti" and "anti" practices. And all this, in hours that are needed of national effort, joining forces, unity and common struggles, in hours when the country faces exogenous challenges, crucial to our course, not only in the next period, but also in the years ahead. We are first of all faced with multiple challenges of the neighbour, which no one knows exactly where to get. The only thing is that there is a Turkish state against us, and not just government, claiming, and expansionist policy, and a sore leadership, which seems to be going without brakes. On the contrary, it requires wisdom and coolness, with the certainty that we have the political leadership, diplomacy and the armed forces needed by times. We have both the power, the decision and the determination to do everything necessary to protect our sovereignty and our sovereign rights, in the air, in the earth and in our seas. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the same time confronted, like the whole world, with the most serious health crisis in the past 100 years, with our citizens and cities being tested, such as Thessaloniki, for paying and paying a heavy price. We thank our doctors, nurses, administrations and staff of our hospitals, who at risk for their own lives give a shocking struggle and save our fellow citizens' lives. We also thank police officers, civil protection officials and all those who contribute to the joint effort towards the intimate enemy. To those who rush back to criticise, just one word: We do not claim infallibility, but we do not need Christ prophets. We admire their ability to prophesy the past, but proposals for the dawn day never heard. We know we still have difficult days ahead of us, but the deepest of the river we've been through. The first vaccines come along with the new year and there is an unprecedented amount of preparation to avoid losing one day. We must now involve everyone in order to convince the most skeptical of safety, effectiveness and the need for vaccination. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis will set an example first. I'm doing the same for Thessaloniki. Because only when vaccination is completed in the majority of the population will we get rid of the dangers and limitations that are so costly to us. Ladies and gentlemen, we are confronted with the worst yearly global recession since the end of World War II. There is a dramatic decline in GDP. There are companies that have suspended their operation and have remained without revenue. There are thousands of workers who were unable to work one day in the summer and even more who did little work. However, no one can deny the government's actions to the extent possible to support those most affected, businesses, free traders, workers, unemployed. EUR 24 billion has already been allocated for 2020 and an additional EUR 7.5 billion has been earmarked for 2021. We all know we're gonna have a difficult start in the new year. It is equally certain, however, that, together with the end of the pandemic, we will also have the beginning of a new development process. The economy will be liberated and as a compressed spring it will blow. Greece will be a champion in global recovery and the losers of 2020 will be the winners of 2021. At the end of 2021 the "Cassanders" will rub their eyes. The government is facing the challenges and at the same time continues reforms that improve the investment environment and the attractiveness of our country. It will contribute to the new development potential to the entry of foreign investors, which has already started with comprehensive examples of the investments of MICROSOT, the work of VOLKSWAGEN in Astypalea and the expansion of PFIZER in Thessaloniki. The dynamic return of tourism will contribute, as we have given tests and won the impressions. It will help even further the tax reductions that have already been made, such as the reduction in income tax, the tax on distributed profits, the advance payment of tax, HISPIA, and the suspension of VAT on new buildings and investments in the green economy. In addition, new reductions, the reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions from 1 year onwards, the abolition of the solidarity levy for private economic incomes, the cover for insurance contributions for new recruitments under the 100 thousand new jobs programme. An important role in the development of European resources that will start to flow under the Recovery Fund and in 2021 will exceed EUR 5.5 billion. Development will strengthen the economic liquidity programmes, which will continue in 2021, such as the repayable advance, TPIX II and the Guarantee Fund. Our strength along this path will be the credibility and trust enjoyed by our country, which is reflected both in the upgrading of its credit rating and, above all, in the historically low interest rates of Greek bonds. Ladies and gentlemen, a government has never faced so many, so critical, so complex, exogenous challenges and it has never been so clean, behind the global storm, the dawn of a better day. That is why Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our government and our parliamentary group are working on this and I therefore ask you to say yes to the 2021 budget, yes to the development with social sensitivity, yes to Greece that we want and can build.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u110	My colleague has the floor from SYRIZA, Mr. Theodora Jack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are in the uncomfortable position to defend a budget which has been drafted and implemented by extra-parliamentary centres, which have delivered it to your state-of-the-art Prime Minister, and he in turn, as if he were playing chess game, sacrificed you and your authority, whether as officers or as ordinary soldiers. And he sacrificed you, because he does so himself, in the year and a half that he is Prime Minister, with common sense and the public on the law. This budget is, of course, submitted at a time when society has done its account for the first part of your governance, and perhaps this is the first time in the post-population that the figures, the budget numbers are conflicting so strongly with reality. Minister for Finance, even you who have lied so much, have never thought you would dare budget an increase in tax revenue in a country which is falling, in a country where one in two small and medium-sized enterprises and one in two catering shops will never be opened again after Lockdown. In a country where households daily cut thousands of public benefits, that is, electricity, water and telephone. Minister for Labour, in fact you are lying consciously because you know when and if we get out of Lockdown unemployment will approach 30% in a country that no longer has class unemployment, but we have a horizontal and exclusive loss of access to work. For workers, due to your tragic catastrophic manipulations in the retail trade, in the field of small and medium-sized services and processing and in the case of thousands of free professionals, employers and self-employed, because of your devastating policy that has been practically entangled in inactivity. Mr. Secretary of Health, intently lie. Because, yes, you are well-paid as a protector for patients, but in this budget you are the consortium of expenditure because you are cutting more than EUR 600 million in public health expenditure, and you do not see in the budget any intake of medical and nursing staff while the third wave of the pandemic is ringing the door of our country. You are together with the Prime Minister on the size of this second wave of pandemic that has cost thousands of fellow citizens our lives. Mr. Development Ministers, since it is common secret that your ministry has two ministers, lie consciously. And you come with the budget to tell us that in 2021 we will have an investment explosion in an economy that has already been running at a rate of underinvestment and underdevelopment since autumn 2019 and in a society that we are currently running at a medium-term recession rate of more than 10%. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end here the invitation of the ministers - associates of Mr Mitsotakis' staff, because behind everything and responsible for everything Mr Mitsotakis himself is Mr Mitsotakis who uses you as puppets in his imaginary successful administration's television show. But I have to warn you that sooner, sooner than you think, your protectors will fall. And then you'll answer to the people. A people who will have become embedded in a wide social front for your overthrowing and its discharge from the most anti-social government that the place has ever known. At the moment that we are talking more than a million workers, scientists, free professionals, self-employed people find that you have not even signed the decisions to support them and their elementary support in the middle of a pandemic. I must, of course, know that you jointly upgraded the level of deception of the productive classes. In the first wave of the pandemic, you said a hundred and you gave fifty. In this second wave of pandemic, you say a hundred and give zero. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is a real novel. It is a tragic text with leading citizens who are struggling for their survival, citizens conspiring daily in subordinated health units, desperate for themselves and their relatives, citizens who feel universally unprotected by the consequences of the neoliberal cynovirus that has affected our country since July 7, 2019. Tell us, Minister, where did the money go? You have given a little more than EUR 6 billion and half of this is loan. And you note that in the funds you hold 37 billion euros, that is, what the government of Alexis Tsipras gave you. Minister, what do you claim with this novel? We suggest that you suspend the holidays of public benefits and did what you do not listen to us. We suggested that you finance the entire medical and nursing staff of the country that has left, as you did not hire and do not understand anything. We suggested that you horizontally strengthen winter houses with a symbolic allowance so that every house can obtain the necessary and forged indifferently. In order not to be far away we have proposed targeted measures within the limits of stagnation of state funds and you have not even discussed them. Therefore, for all these reasons, I blame you not only for cynicism, but also for pre-determined degradation and poorness of the entire Greek society, but of course for the narrow circle of great interests. You live in a "Matrix". You're acting like an elite that's indifferent to the people. But do you seriously believe that, when you are able in the next six months to develop social cohesion as a whole by handing over the ruins of society and the economy to the hyenas and funds of international speculative capital, society will remain a spectator of its end? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you understand the crucial point in our economy after ten years of deinvestment. Look at our country's export profile and you'll understand the difficult phase in which we've come. Only for the period January - October 2020 we have a reduction in exports by 11.3%. And what is your answer to this vital challenge facing our economy? The budget you're tabling provides for nothing absolute. While the 12 most competitive products include primary products, such as peaches and nectarines, horticulture, cotton, feta, wine, oil, the 2021 budget does not provide for a single euro for these sectors that are really affected by the pandemic. Do you realize the consequences of such a choice on our country's exports? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you say - and rightly so - that the answer to the structural problems of the economy is a new development plan for our country and you commissioned it to universities under the Nobel Prize Professor Pissaridis. You also welcome the fact that you have found all 32 billion euros from the European Reconstruction Fund to support it. However, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to study in depth the draft submitted to conclude that this is one of the same. It is a report of ideas where few good ideas are not new and new ideas are not just bad, they are disastrous. Most importantly, however, you are firmly committed to operational objectives, measurable results and a sufficient plan to implement these proposals. It is suffering, in other words, from the usual lack of an effective administrative implementation mechanism that distinguishes all the reform operations in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, for our part, the need and a holistic development plan that fosters the extroversion of the economy has been thoroughly tabled, based on high productivity areas. We need a growth model based on healthy and innovative entrepreneurship and fair distribution of losses and burdens. We as a government tomorrow are ready not only to bring it into, but also to guarantee its socially fair execution. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, in conclusion, you are bringing in a budget of suffering written by the hands of cynicals. You are simply the sad and helpless defenders of a policy that leads society to extinction. At the moment, when we are dealing with unprinted paper, above the country there are threats of an existential nature both to national issues and to issues of health, education, trade, agricultural and industrial production and to the entire banking system. It goes without saying that I will vote against, ladies and gentlemen, and I am sure that the Members of the other parties in the opposition will do so, because we are not and neither do we want to become collaborative in these sufferings that you are planning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u112	Come and make the Step, please. Mr. Stylus is in the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs. I'm getting past him. Ms Maria Konnaka will now come to Stepma from the Communist Party of Greece. I'm putting Mr. Psychoyon in Mr. Styly's place. We will be closing down with Mr Psychoyo so that you will not be two speakers from the same party. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. From the state budget figures one finds with figures that for the people there is a more dangerous pandemic that has been plagued for many years. It is the system that operates at the core of the profit for which the expanded people's needs are constantly sacrificed, which is what prevents the achievements of science, the glooming technological development to return to those who create them, to be oriented towards their liberation from the coercion and not to be dragged to the thresholds of the guaranteed incomes and benefits that you have without shame joined the Constitution as an option for workers in the popular strata, while billions of euros are directed to strengthening business groups. This is not the fate of the workers, the bio-family farmers, the self-employed and the scientists. Young workers have no choice but to stay as the generation that will live worse than the previous one. We don't only have a choice to keep up with misery. We have both the choice and the power to get rid of the weights that prevent our needs from matching to the level of modern capabilities. Do we really need more proof of the barbarity of the system you are defending from the 2021 budget, reduced by EUR 570 million in health expenditure in the middle of a pandemic, when thousands of people have lost their lives and many more are suffering, when 80% of regular surgery has already been deferred for the next year, when treatment of so many other diseases has entered ice again? But is public health underfunding really a phenomenon? No, why all of you who today throw crocodile tears, New Democracy, PASOK - KINAL and SYRIZA not only strangled together and continued the public health system, opening a splendid field for the extremism of the private sector, but for years our minds have been battling with a fairy tale of harmonious public-private coexistence, so that you can see today, on the assumption, the speculation that was based on the health of the people. This happens when health turns from a social good into expensive merchandise for those alone who have to pay it. I was surprised to hear a government MEP say yesterday about how much health structures on the islands were based as another sign of respect - he said - on the multitude of islands. I would sacrifice a little bit of the time of my speech to list stories about samples taken molecular tests that travelled to the Aegean Sea for a week by accident at the health center of the island or for doctors and instruments that covered holes from island to island, if these were not episodes from the permanent work, the permanent tragedy played by time-to-year governmental responsibilities in the health structures of the islands, if it was not normal for Lesvos to lose human lives, because it remains an inappropriate dream of the hemodynamic part of the hospital in Lemnos to be missing permanently basic medical specialities and so many other serious deficiencies in a number of islands that cost the life of the people, not because science is impossible, but because your policy does not allow it. Does the budget shape a different reality in terms of popular incomes? Undeniable proof of the unfair, classic nature of the budget is an increase of EUR 3.5 billion in tax revenue, of which EUR 2.5 billion are the anti-French direct taxes. In other words, the account from the broken ones and this crisis is being rewritten for the people. At the same time, they maintain the scandalous tax exemptions, including the large real estate of shipping and offshore companies that would pay off EUR 3.6 billion annually, an exception that is maintained intact from the far 2002, a tax exemption of all time and government. On the other hand, it is not even given euros by the suspensions of tax obligations granted to self-employed and bio-regulatory farmers, upping the bar of debts and the arrangements for not so distant 2021. What can even those who self-employed have managed to get the much advertised repayable advance? The EUR 1 000 for those affected and EUR 2 000 for those who closed with a state decision, which in any case half have to return, is really a drop in the ocean, even for the current needs of rents, electricity, loans and debts that do not stop running. While fire-fighting measures do not dismiss the burdens and economic impasses for thousands of small professionals, refuse to take effective measures to relieve them, such as the reintroduction of the tax-free limit to 12,000 euros, the definitive abolition of the trade fee, and the deletion of some of their debts to taxes and banks. Did the lion's share not go to the processing industries or to the fish farm monopoly, as you say? While any tax relief applies only to the main-professional farmers, i.e. excluding a large proportion of the poorer areas. It is characteristic that for the inhabitants of the islands, many of whom survived directly or indirectly around the tourist activity and are literally in desperation, deny even this minimum facility for bringing back to all the islands of the reduced VAT rates. You only maintain it as an unacceptable compensation for the islands that you have converted into permanent prisons of refugees and immigrants. And there, however, is your role common to crime, no matter how hard you strive for what the most complete version of your European solidarity is, the mud and the mud and the mud at the Moria Cemetery, or the mud and the neo-European standard of misery of Kara Tepe? A solution to the misery created in the islands cannot, of course, be given to permanent and inhumane caging in the new closed prisons in the new concentration camps that the government is once again trying to impose, nor, of course, to throw recognized refugees on the streets of Athens. We have already tabled a question, in detail, about the problems facing refugees, asylum seekers and economic migrants living on the ground within and outside the various structures. We think that a solution can be found by transferring all the enclaved refugees to human hospitality structures in the hinterland, but above all by direct provision of documents to quickly go to the countries of their actual destination, with opposition, namely, to the conditions that give rise to caging, such as SYRIZA, with the same warmth as New Democracy, applies, the same cutting logic of the new Migration and Asylum Pact. Both this and the whole barbaric policy that sacrifices our rights and our lives only with the stagnation of the organized, determined people can stop. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr George Psychogios from SYRIZA has the floor. Before entering the fourteenth cycle, the Minister of Health will take the floor, Mr. Kikilias. Then there is the fourteenth cycle and I say the first six: Mr. Anastasiades, Mr. Mousalas, Mr. Cyanaakis, Mr. Panas, Mrs. Dounia and Mr. Drasakis. Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we have before us an ideological, provocative and certainly not a budget in a pandemic. And I will prove that later on on the basis of what is happening in other countries. It is linked to the feeling you have about the reality that exists out there, but also your courtesy in a few powerful and divulges, taking advantage of judgment as an opportunity. The members of the government, with their first Prime Minister, who walks to Parnitha, suffer from a lack of consciousness of the drama experienced by the citizens and the world that shakes the teeth - families, children, older people, workers, small and medium-sized people - and leads the country to a lasting crisis of social cohesion with a rapid increase in locks, redundancies and social inequalities. SYRIZA and his MPs are on the front line and show their material and moral support to the people affected. Recently we went to Corinth Hospital and to health structures for people operating there. However, we also support people through other actions in detention centres, prisons that you have abandoned, as well as structures of solidarity, in abundant families, local communities and all of this. These are foreign to you and you can't understand them. You barely deceive them more. It is, however, a model of development that is behind it, and it is obviously what went bankrupt the country and is heading back through the forecasts of the Pissaridis report to do the same. Its only hope is to change it, to develop equitablely with a strong and effective social state, to invest in labour and labour rights, to support small and medium-sized enterprises and technology and to innovation. Some parts of the budget show the situation: 11.7% fall in the third quarter of 2020, which brings the country to the last position of Europe, 10.5% in total - one of the highest in Europe - for the next year, when we said you should take generous steps ahead of it. You also say that you have taken economic and social support measures amounting to EUR 24 billion this year, but in fact EUR 6.7 billion has been spent, of which EUR 3.1 billion is credited, when you took a EUR 37 billion pillow from the sacrifices of the Greek people and you do not take advantage of it. Of course, SYRIZA is coming to make his proposals, because SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen, is not the opposition you were. A lot has been heard in this Chamber. You were the ones who had a mutilation in Matti, Mandra, a extreme right-wing populism in the Prespes and the refugee. You also said the Soviet invention, and now you say they will give us a solution. You called the social dividend crumbs and abolished it. We are therefore saying that we are not receiving a grant for small and medium-sized enterprises, not a loan where four out of five are excluded. In Germany 70% have been given since the 2019 turnover to open up, subsidisation of work with 100% wages. If you're wondering where this is going, it's happening in France, in the Czech Republic. Sweden gave 96%, Ireland gave 90%. In the 'SURE' programme, Greece received EUR 2.7 billion when Portugal takes EUR 6 billion with the same population. Also, emergency income for households who have been degraded, measures of personal protection at the workplace, where we have had hundreds of cases. A grant rather than a reduction in rent for firms affected and a reintroduction of collective labour agreements for teleworking. But that's not what the channels say. They're asking you easy questions, they're mocking you. However, the Greek people will hear it from here, which is suffering, targeting, craving, smuggling with the crumbs you give for support measures. It even pays for the tests, while at the same time it passes and is being taken over for the exercise of its democratic rights, while fully respecting the measures. Other budgets, which are not projected, provide for public investments of even EUR 240 billion, such as in Spain, in order to overcome this crisis. Also, increased taxation on large companies, increased taxation on large assets, increased taxation on large incomes, and here citizens are asked to pay EUR 3.6 billion and an increase of 8.1% in 2021. One wonders where they'll find them. Over EUR 3 billion in Spain's corresponding budget for strengthening the public health system. In the country, with a huge number of dead every day, less than EUR 572 million for health, when the SYRIZA government had increased in mid-memorandums to 5.1% - which is not enough, but it had been done - expenditure on health care for the whole population. Of course, a guarantee of the right to housing, with an increase of 370% in the Spanish budget, is included in construction and public housing. In fact, a recent arrangement closes every window for auctions. What's going on here? Acquisition code and everyone loses their homes and incomes. I am going to the refugee - immigration - and I say that this budget incorporates the direct assignments of the million-dollar services, which we have seen in the previous period, Mr Mitaraki and we have denounced, with an increase in expenditure on purchases of goods and services through million-dollar contracts. You have already fired hundreds of programme workers and you have contractors inside the structures. We have called for all these scandalous conventions to come to the House. There is also an increase for the 2 million euro ministerial offices, when SYRIZA had 880,000 euros for their needs. I guess you guys do more work. We see, then, that in every way we must defend the dignity of all those in the country, and of refugees - migrants and local societies, and not in this cynical way - when you blamed us - that budget funds should be squandered and that European money should not be used. The report of the Committee of the Council of Europe that has recently seen the light of publicity makes us all ashamed, because it speaks of a conscious political choice and strategy that impoverishes refugees and immigrants, cultivates social automation with local communities, abolishes basic rights in asylum, provides for and records beaten even European tourists, such as this incident in Ceramic, returning to the sea, detention of up to thirty-six months and everything else one can imagine, a 2012-2014 model that tarnished and condemned the country, with structures such as those in Kara Tepes that drowned in mud or Malakasa or in the Key of Serres with millions of euros and with few works and impoverished everyone there, with recognised refugees on the road through pandemic and with a demonstration of power to these people and not in Europe to take the responsibility it deserves. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that through this budget and all the rights, individual and social, which always exist in a budget, it seems unfortunately despite the opposite of you that there is a prevalence of a particular school of thought, of the neoliberal, that of Chicago, where it sees as a merchandise almost everything, which sees inequality as legality and which we say that in and outside this House it is our duty, together with our social alliances, to overturn these and radical proposals, but which are entirely applicable to defending the social majority and ensuring social justice and human emancipation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u116	As soon as the Stepma is prepared, the reason will be taken by the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilias, for ten minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's debate on the state budget is taking place within the power of the world's greatest health crisis in the past hundred years. If one looks at what we were discussing here a year ago on the 2020 budget, in this Chamber, namely before a pandemic, one will understand in the clearest way that in the end without health there is no economy. This long-term test of the coronary has cost human lives, it has hit thousands of Greek families hard, but it seems that we can see the beginning of its end, as we all hope. The global scientific community, as well as the research community, in a titanium, admittedly, has now safely produced effective vaccines. The countdown has begun. As you all know, Greece participates in the joint procurement of European Union vaccines for the Member States. In this context, our national vaccination plan for Greek citizens is always developing, in accordance with international health conditions, the international health protocols on the safety of citizens, under the guidance of scientists and the National Committee for Vaccines. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a simple vaccination procedure. Vaccination for COVID -19 will be an unprecedented health exercise, with unprecedented difficulties in implementing it. As we have already seen in the countries that have started the process, it is a complex, difficult and very demanding task that has never been done. It requires extremely detailed planning, hundreds of individual parameters that need to be predicted, very accurately in its operational execution, but above all, in support of and collapsing all the institutional factors which, in one way or another, are involved. The Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis is constantly informed and participates in important meetings, while the Ministry of Health together with the Ministry of Digital Policy and the Ministry of Civil Protection with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection we have coordinated and cooperate closely on a daily basis. Tens of executives and collaborators are working on fire planning a step forward this huge business. As Minister of Health I commit and assure the House, but also the Greek citizens, that we will have full information with transparency and directity, that the entire operational plan is governed by the principles of effective but also fully transparent procedure, that at all stages of this national effort, for whatever problems they are encountered, and even individually, there will be immediate information and immediate response, that in a joint effort, with a national figure ahead, I firmly believe that we will take our lives back. Ladies and gentlemen, I have carefully followed all these days your positions on health issues, on the problems of the ERC. I could, as I have done many times, respond to all this point and tell you what we have received, where we are, how matters are going in health. But I won't choose that way. It is not, in my view, the moment for such controversy today. Now it is time to fight, it is time that, while respecting the losses of our fellow humans and the efforts of the whole health community to face a deadly and invisible enemy, we must unite and we must win the final battle of this war. And in this battle, no one is spared. We will systematically inform Parliament and society, as we have done all this time and I personally with the colleagues of all the parties who are representatives in the health sector. We will highlight any problems or failures that may exist in an unprecedented - as I have explained - for the entire world's vaccination campaign. We will be ready to give immediate solutions to what emerges. In this unprecedented struggle, all parties have their own role. And I am sure that all colleagues will feel the extent of responsibility and do their duty. I think we're all gonna win this war together, because we can't lose. And then we can return to any differences and any controversy. Now, however, I invite you all to join the national battle so that we can all be winners at the end. Just for the record I will briefly mention in the middle of COVID our attempt to increase the ICMs - they have reached the thousands of three hundred, ladies and gentlemen, and continue to add others -, to eliminate the waiting list at the ICMs, which was a chronic problem and a wound to post-multiple, the worst and most embarrassing ruptured ruptured in Post-Multipulation. Right now, we don't have a waiting list at the ICU, even though we have a coronary pandemic. I remind you that in other years - and I don't mean just previous governance - we have been looking forward for thirty-five to fifty-to-five of our people for a IF bed, because of the flu virus or other systemic diseases. I would like to tell you that, in the midst of a crisis, we have created more than four thousand six hundred single beds of COVID in seven sanitary regions, we have hired seven thousand health professionals, four thousand nurses, three hundred intensifiers, including those provided by the AACC for permanent recruitment. We even fought private doctors, bringing them to the ESS to help and support. We are the first country that brought rapid test antigens with specifications from the World Health Organization and used them at entrance gates, witnessed areas, hotels, refugee camps, etc. We secured the first part of the pandemic, and now, of course, - while they were missing from all over the world in an unprecedented battle for each country to have it - means of personal protection. The World Health Organization congratulated the five hundred mobile groups, serving the entire Greek society with thousands of actions and controls. These mobile groups will play an important role in helping and invading vulnerable groups and people who cannot, for example, in our nursing homes, but others in this huge battle for vaccination. We put a hundred and sixty health centers for walkers and patients with light illnesses and mainly COVID, so they can go on a date and receive medical services. Especially in Attica, 50% of the patients who tested COVID did it through our health centers, decompressing the hospitals. On the drug side, we have already reduced 7% to three thousand drugs without any increase last year, the same will be true this year, saving EUR 180 million, the EUR 50 million by reducing them from the Greek taxpayer to the drug. We've eliminated the suffering of tumour patients in the EOPY tails, cystic fibrosis patients. We also have the reform for the anti-smoking law, a law on public health. Programming of recruitments to intensive treatment units in a unique way, advice and guidance only for the scientific community. Organisational restructuring of the EAFRD, full rebranding of the EAFRD and institutional modernisation. Health protection measures for refugees, asylum seekers, vaccinations, particularly minors, in these populations, as well as in Roma from the EGE and much more. I won't expand, I'll stop here. I will say that the budget has been strengthened for the year that comes, and there is assurance from the lips of the Minister of Finance himself about what is needed in order to address the emergency needs of COVID and what comes up with the Ministry of Health. I would like to close, ladies and gentlemen, in the same way as I started my speech. I find it very critical at times. We have not escaped the danger. You see that the National Health System is under enormous pressure. The National Health System, on the other hand, proved to be withstanding the huge pressure of the coronary when other much richer health systems, much richer and advanced countries show that they are bent. The way in which the countries of the European north with huge potential, over-perceived IF, or the acceptance of difficulties in countries that followed other strategies, such as Sweden, are able to trust our scientists and the way in which they have guided us and gave us the possibility of scientific advice, which is a reserve - I think - for the National Health System and for the country. In conclusion, I would like to ask all of you once again to do our duty, to do so at national level, to do so in all the parties, the Co-Population of one and the Overseas, to do so with national unity, to help everyone so that this very difficult equation and the huge health project of vaccination can be achieved so that each and every colleague here can and also the Greek citizen can take his life back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u118	Precisely fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u120	What do you want, Mr. Ragossi?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like the two - three minutes that the Rules of Procedure give me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u122	The Rules of Procedure do not give this right. With tolerance in the budget, the time of the parliamentary representatives is specific. You have the floor for two minutes if you want to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kikilia, you have attempted to accept him on one condition: that you would state directly, clearly, officially and publicly that you disagree with Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, when he said that "we knew that he would come back." - Means the coronary - "...but somewhere I think we all rested from the success of the first wave." Do you disagree with this statement by the Prime Minister, Mr. Kikilia? If you disagree, then we should listen to everything you said. If you do not disagree, then everything you have said, I am very sorry, have no contact with power and reality. Because Mr Mitsotakis himself has already said, Mr Kikilis, that the reason why the country, society and living in this size of tragedy, with the quarantine to prolong, with thousands of businesses and tens of thousands of workers in despair, is due, beyond the coronary, to the fact that you as government in the critical summer hours. So, Mr Kikilia, your responsibility is irresponsible and we do not charge it, Mr Mitsotakis publicly confessed to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u124	Mr Ragosi, you have asked your question. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, seconds and I'll be done. And secondly, because you said things, I just want to say two words about the vaccines. You know we're all perfectly positive with vaccination. Humanity has no more weapon against this enemy. But we hope, Mr Kikilia, that we do not get to the point and for this critical battle that is before us to find a government that is also facing the process of vaccination, as it has faced all our society's efforts to defend the pandemic, namely the'scole of age', with the masks of giants shared in schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Ragossi, I'll cut you off. That's been said a hundred times! Mr. Kikilia, you will answer because Mr. Kegeroglu also wants two minutes to speak. The Minister will answer and continue on the list. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, yesterday I had the opportunity to make a similar speech by Mr Panayotopoulos to say that this year we will vote to increase defence expenditure by more than EUR 2 billion, unlike the 2020 budget last year, which we voted against the reduction in the budget you voted with SYRIZA. This year, the top issue is health, and so that you do not come, just as in the defensive expenditure, since you have changed the budget, the question is as follows: In your position you have appeared more than sure that more money will be needed. You also appeared certain - and we have no doubt about that - that the Ministry of Finance will give this money. What is the political feasibility, what is the technical difficulty of the money that you are sure will need - and we are sure they will need - not to be reflected in this year's budget? Not only as an increase, but essentially as a reduction! That is not what we understand and we want an explanation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Villardo, you are not a parliamentary representative. Only the parliamentary representatives are given the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u131	You, Mrs Bakadima, are you a parliamentary representative for today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u132	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u133	Here, you have the floor for two minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u134	I'm going to need much less, Mr. President. Thank you. We could have been opposition, but I don't want to make any opposition. This is an extremely serious health issue. We're all criticizing, and we're going to keep doing it. We have agreed from the outset as a MERA25 with vaccination and on this part will be the two - three questions I would like to ask you, Minister. First of all, I would like you to tell us when we will have a better picture of the way in which they work, how they stand up and how the vaccination centres, when the citizens and we will be able to know the next steps and whether there is a plan for subsequent use of vaccination centres. Our proposal, for example, was for primary care centres to become vaccination centres. That's the questions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u135	On this subject, Mrs Bakadima - of course, the Minister will answer what he wants - firstly, he has informed the parties at the first meeting he held and, secondly, he has said so a hundred times. I will not waste time at the expense of colleagues to explain the whole plan of vaccination in the budget, Mr. Kikilis. Ask a timely question, come and answer you as to the details. I won't waste any time now, 15-20 minutes, which is three colleagues speaking. Here, Minister, you have the floor for five minutes to answer all three colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. I won't need that much time. I thank everyone for the questions - positioning, and it is an inalienable right of Officerial Response and of the Hellenic Responsibility to ask questions and to exercise parliamentary control. There is no doubt about that. That is why throughout the pandemic, even though there has been a very hard and laborious effort from the Ministry of Health, we are here - I and all the partners - whenever necessary, in order to keep us informed. In fact, Mr President, we informed the parties last week, as we will do tomorrow in the planned information, which we have, together with the President of the National Authority for Vaccines, Mrs Theodoridou and the Secretary-General at first instance, that the primary health centres will be mainly the vaccination centres of the country. I've already mentioned them. Ladies and gentlemen, be careful. From the Prime Minister of the country to the last Minister, Secretary General, State Secretary, Governor or worker in the National Health System, to the Civil Protection or to the Digital Protection or to all the relevant Ministries, it has not been one day since this enormous pandemic which we do not have with a sense of responsibility, with an anguish and concern over the very important problems that we, our fellow European citizens, and the whole world, have. We are conscious of the duty, reluctant to do with any personal costs, because we realise that higher than all of us is the value of human life. Macran! With this tone and this style and this sense of responsibility I addressed to you today in the debate on the budget, accepting that there is political controversy, with the information we have submitted over these months, with the questions and questions you have asked, with things that we agree with and with others to which we disagree. There is no doubt at all, Mr Colleague, that if and if necessary - I use the words of the Minister of Finance - whatever is necessary, it will be given to health. EUR 4,26 billion has been registered for 2021, 3,85 billion in 2018. The regular health code has been increased. Whatever emergency was needed, it was given. After all, all these recruitments have been made and everything that is needed for the Ministry of Health is adequately covered. I have the assurance of the Ministry of Finance and the Government that it will support the Ministry of Health and the National Health System and therefore the country. Mr President, I would like to close once again with this: I understand that it is, if you like, appealing many times and the absolute commitment that society and the media have, obviously on the top of the issue at the moment, the issue of pandemic and that of public health, to say a word more and more. Perhaps, as you have done today, you are exercising your criticism, you want to translate in an alpha way or to interpret the Prime Minister. I've already answered that for you. However, I would like to ask everyone very much in the effort of the national vaccination campaign, which I believe is the beginning of partial return to normality and which concerns us all and goes beyond our parties, that we all be very careful and converging in a more modest and consensual speech, so that our fellow citizens understand the value of being vaccinated, that, historically over the centuries, vaccination has supported and helped to eliminate significant risks for humans, huge pandemics and so that we can inform all our fellow citizens. Vaccination from our Constitution is not mandatory. However, the need to convince everyone about the beneficial way in which it can lead to a return, to start a partial normality and gradually, after a few months, to regaining our lives. I am staying on this because I think - and I say this with all the power of my soul - that this is the highest task a parliamentarian can have at this time and I would ask you very much to extend and help all of you in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u137	Are mistakes made, omissions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u138	Let's move on. Let's go to the fourth circle of speakers. There has been a mutual change between Mr Kyranakis and Mr Anastasiades. So, in turn, it is Mr. Kyanakis, Mr. Mousalas, Mr. Anastasiades, Mr. Panas, Mr. Dounia and Mr. Drasakis. Somewhere between 13.30' and 14.00' will be spoken by Mrs. Aleka Papariga. Here, Mr. Kyranakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what really is a state's budget? It is the state's agreement with citizens, the citizens' agreement with the state, that the money that the former contributes will be spent by the second to serve the needs they are unable to meet on their own. It is the agreement that the taxes that people are paying hard will be spent to benefit them so that they can make their lives better. The budget is, in fact, a paper, which shows that what the governments spend, does not belong to either the ministers, the parties or the politicians. They belong only to the people who bring them in every year. And it reads this paper backwards. I hear colleagues from the Opposition, all these days, saying easily 'give more there, give more elsewhere, you do not give enough money in this area'. The same, of course, is heard many times by all colleagues from some social and professional groups. "The government must give more to our industry" is the slogan we hear most often than anything else in this country. However, no one thinks that in order for the government to give more to its social group, it must take more than some or, worse still, it must cut money from another social group, which was obviously not asked. This culture in our country must sometime end. And it can end if we together build a new system of taxation that will create confidence. I would therefore like to present to the House today and to the Government's financial staff a proposal for the next budgets, obviously not for this year. My proposal is simple: a large proportion of the State's revenue should be based on purely compensation, that is, we should reduce or remove some of the existing taxes and they should be replaced by a public health tax, a security tax, an infrastructure tax, a national defence tax. So if, for example, 5% of the revenue is based on a education tax, then a government can also spend 5% of the budget in our schools and in our universities, because that will have been paid by Greek citizens and that will be awaited by us. And if in an area such as national defence, the government wants to increase expenditure to make a claim against hostile actions, then that should correspond to revenue from the corresponding tax. And I do not believe that there will be a Greek who will be glad to give more money if he knows that they will be given to support the Armed Forces in such a case where national security is threatened or who will not agree to give more money, for example, on health tax, if he knows that the country needs to hire more doctors or nurses or if he thinks that their salaries should be increased, because they should be paid from somewhere. Or will the taxpayer not ask the taxpayer to give less money to services which will now be made electronically and cost much less than in the previous years? The citizens will pay for what they need themselves, not for what the state imposes on them. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to make an optimistic thought that we will one day come to this Chamber and discuss a budget, with proposals from all the parties and the Members, who will not only demand that money be given, but will propose and show where we will find the money, where we will find the resources. I would also like the social groups, the students, the professionals, the pensioners every time they demand - rightly so many times - more money for their own social group to have an opinion on where to find the money. I would like every citizen to be able to understand that the state budget operates in the same way as in his home, so that there are costs there must be revenue. At a time when all this may sound like utopian, the reason why I put forward this proposal for such a compensation system is because I find with regret all these years that I have been out of this Chamber - and now within - that few people have the slightest idea, the slightest idea of how much the services offered to them by the state cost. In a private transaction this may be easier. It's easier. You have a sense of what you're paying for. For example, if you have 10,000 euros, you can buy a used car five years or decades, you can't buy a new Lamborghini. Or, for example, if you have 500 euros available for rent a month, you can rent a small apartment in Nea Smyrna, not a villa in Sounio, random example. But there is no sense in public services. We hear about free benefits without having the slightest feeling of how much they cost and where they are paid. There is no concept of 'free health'. Someone pays taxes so there can be public hospitals and health centers. There is no concept of 'free education'. Someone pays taxes to have schools and universities for every child and every young man. There is nothing free of charge in a country that taxes, and we have a duty to provide services to the citizens corresponding to those they pay. So that is my proposal, and obviously I do not think that the whole budget can work that way. In any event, a State has not only tax revenue and cannot predict all its costs. There are exceptional situations, natural phenomena, earthquakes, flooding and obviously exceptional expenditures corresponding to them, so that there is no fellow citizen in a position of weakness. But we can all agree in this Chamber with the citizens who have sent us in Parliament on five basic things. The political system must explain clearly and transparently, showing that every euro that comes from Greek taxpayers spends it with respect for their own needs, that the Greeks know what they pay, so that they can assess it. Only in this way will we be able to regain their trust. And let us not have any illusion that there is a normal person out there watching a parliamentary debate on the budget and it can get a clear picture of where his money went this year or where they will go next year in the way we hold the debate here every year. Of course I have no illusion that this can change in one day. I would, however, call on the financial staff, Mr Pylakakakis, who is here, to consider this proposal on the budget 2022 and until then, with confidence in the government's ability to re-establish the country in a development orbit, I am voting in favour of the budget for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u140	Mr Mouszalas and Mr Anastasiades will follow, Mrs Papapeiga will speak and then the other three I have spoken. Mr. Muzalas?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u141	Has he changed with someone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u142	No, the list I have here has entered Mrs Pulou's post on paper. Okay, I'm not erasing him, just let him know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u143	Can I speak for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u144	Okay, it's not typically possible, but now, Mr. Drasakis - you old people are - come to Mr. Musala's position, but if Mr. Musalas comes, he will enter your position, he will not enter among others, will he? Here, Mr. Drasakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing one of the most critical - I think - budgets in recent years. This is because we are living in a peculiar, complex, multi-dimensional crisis, but also because, in particular, we are faced with a dual denial of the government, both in the health sector and in the economic sector. And we do not say that with pleasure or pleasure, but, unfortunately, the optimistic scenarios have proved to be completely unfounded. New data and new needs which are not addressed by the budget are therefore created. Many of the speakers have said, and the Minister for Health has recognised it indirectly, saying that he has a promise that there will be additional aid if necessary. I'll come back to this. Firstly, we have the health system in a marginal state, which needs immediate and lasting support. Even though the vaccine is a source of hope, we must bear in mind - and the experts say - that the next year - unfortunately - in particular the first half of today's data still looks like a dark tunnel full of uncertainties and questions. Secondly, the recession turns out to be more profound. We expected that, at least us. More importantly, the recession is also prolonging in 2021. So there is an increased uncertainty as to when recovery will come and a certainty that it will not be possible, as the government estimated. Thirdly, there is the reduction in wages, redundancies, the risk of massive failures of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, by some - naïvely - appears to be progress and an opportunity. All of this, therefore, and many more, compose an image not only of economic but of social crisis, while at the same time increasing the gap from the rest of Europe. The government answers and speaks of a strong recovery. Of course, some time there will be a recovery. But how will this be sustainable if incomes and employment are not increased? Prime Minister Mitsotakis said days ago that once the pandemic is over, we will have an explosion in consumption, because the world will spend on saving it. But where do we live? How many Greek women and how many Greeks have saving as a source to live? Sustainable recovery with wage cuts, redundancies and massive bankruptcy cannot be achieved. And it is alarming, as we read, that large employers' organisations are calling for wage cuts to be made, even 20%. If the government allows such developments, then I could say that it opens up a new austerity tunnel and not a path of sustainable and sustainable recovery. The Government shows as a panacea the resources of the Recovery and Resilience Fund. However, even if these resources are invading within 2021 - and we hope to invade - they will not be able to turn into income in this time. In this respect, therefore, the fact that the budget expects about two units of GDP growth from the fund is something that at present appears to be a total waste. Of course these resources are important if they are properly exploited. But, here too, the government is moving without social and political dialogue, with a rational distribution of money and not with a coherent plan of sustainable and fair growth. The prolongation of the recession and the restrictive measures therefore create new data and will require new additional support measures. However, such measures do not exist in the budget. This budget should not, in my opinion, come for a vote in Parliament. It should be redesigned on the basis of the new data. Of course, there are technical difficulties and to some extent institutional difficulties. If, therefore, the Ministry of Finance is voted on, it will soon have to bring in a specific supplementary budget covering needs not covered by this budget. Only then can Mr Kikilias and especially the Greek society be quiet about the fact that we will really avoid the worst, because that's where we are. As far as the recovery plan is concerned, the minimum possible is to place these resources, as well as the resources of the other funds, under the supervision of a permanent, cross-party, of course, a committee of Parliament. Only in this way could there be fundamental transparency, dialogue and consultation both between the political forces and with the actors in society, for the obvious reason among others - because that is obvious - that decisions on these projects and any actions financed go beyond the life cycle of a government. Therefore, there needs to be or should, in any case, be consents to all that judge the future of the country and not just a juncture. Ladies and gentlemen, society is aware of the new facts, as is apparent from public opinion surveys. Discontent grows and is displayed in various ways and the political climate changes. That is why the government or some of its centres are resorting to mud attacks against the former Prime Minister of the country and the SYRIZA party. The relationship between cause and cause is obvious. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] After all, everywhere in Europe, but also throughout the world, this multi-dimensional crisis has called into question attitudes and policies that have prevailed over the last forty years and which have been maintained by the New Democracy Government, as in the Pissaridis report, despite the objections of some Members. I've known Mr. Kaklamani's positions from the past. However, this diffuse challenge must not allow far-right and populist deadlocks to be diverted or devoured. They must be turned into a new political project, a progressive radical plan for the future, because the future is not in the privatisation of the public health system, it is not in the least state, it is not in authoritarianism and in the reduction of democracy. The future lies in the support of the public health system and its integration in particular, I would say, for our country, because it is incomplete and other public goods, in the strengthening of the social state, in strengthening and extending democracy. These trends, after all, are internationally growing, these tendencies mark the progressive way out of the crisis, and these tendencies are already major in Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u146	Mr Savvas Anastasiades has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs Papapeigas. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the ordinary budget for 2021 in the plenary of this House, which was presented in an excellent way by our rapporteur, Mr Papadimitriou, and continues to be analysed by the ministers and colleagues, is under very difficult, unpredictable and unstable circumstances, as the great economic crisis that is plagued by the whole world, including our country, is testing our strengths. Of course, the result of this crisis is the world’s greatest recession after World War II. The budget has two very undetermined factors, more importantly with the end of the pandemic, which in turn depends on how rapid and effective vaccination will be. That is why the content of the regular budget that we are debating is clearly more unfavourable than the clipboard budget that we prepared about two months ago in the committees. The adjustment of the budget is mainly due to two reasons: firstly, the imposition of new restrictive measures to deal with the second and most aggressive wave of the pandemic that caused a budget forecast to be revised downwards and, secondly, the need to take additional measures to protect households, businesses and workers who in turn have made the financial effect worse. Apart from addressing the economic consequences of the economic crisis, however, the government has successfully managed all this year in the face of challenges, such as the attack we have had on Evros, immigration and natural disasters, while Turkey's lasting challenges require the strengthening of the deterrent power of our country, which is provided for in this budget and must find us united in the face of Turkey's arbitraryness. This environment and these unprecedented conditions that we live in must lead us and be a pillar of how we conduct ourselves, how we place ourselves and how we criticise the budget that we are discussing today, the budget of 2021. Because it is well known and commonly accepted - I think - the successful way in which the government faced the first wave of pandemic in the first half of 2020. The second wave of the pandemic is also facing the other challenges that our country continues to face. Those who today, as Christ’s prophets, come and blame the government for the rapid opening of tourism, are the same ones who were calling for the opening of borders last March. The 2021 budget shall include twice as many measures to support the incomes of workers and businesses as provided for in the earlier budget. Some of the measures include a reduction of the insurance contribution by three percentage points for private sector employees, the activation of the new tax scale for freelance professionals, the 'flood' of the Solidarity Contribution, the 'GEYRA' programme concerning the first home subsidy for borrowers affected by the pandemic, the support for financially vulnerable citizens and the unemployed, the strengthening of the resilience of the health system, the provision of capital for small and large enterprises with new rounds of returnable advance, and an increase in expenditure, as I said, on strengthening the national defence, is also important. I want to believe that in this Chamber there is no one who disagrees with this. With its policy and strategy, the government facilitates the recovery envisaged after the end of the pandemic, because despite the problems of the health crisis, the government is faithfully implementing its programme and is continuing its reform work which, along with other interventions in support of the real economy, creates conditions for rapid development. An important role in the implementation of the 2021 budget and in the course of the economy will also be played by the European resources of the Development Fund which will begin to enter our country from next year. These resources, together with the European budget, which were adopted at the recent Council meeting, are considered crucial for our country and, above all, for the other countries affected by the pandemic. It is also of particular importance that the confidence shown by the markets in the Greek economy, which is reflected in bond interest rates, but also in the continuation of the relaxation of budgetary rules and in 2021 by the European Union. In conclusion, the Government's commitment to implementing reforms, the use of European funds, together with investment-friendly policy, will create a dynamic recovery in the morning of the pandemic. They will limit unemployment and allow the government to implement even more aggressive development policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the entire parliamentary group and the government continue to put our expectations very high. With prudent, studied and targeted policy, with no extremes and without relaxing, we continue to implement our programme and we expect that we will overcome the problems created by pandemic. Since the 2020 deep recession, we have been targeting growth in 2021 and we hope to achieve it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u148	Good. The floor will take, as I have already announced, Mrs. Pappigiga for ten minutes. Mr Panas and Mrs Dounia will be followed and we close the first half of the fourteenth cycle. Then the Deputy Minister will speak, Mr. Kumucakos. Here you go, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u149	The budget brought about by the New Democracy is entirely consistent, in our view, with the programme, its policy and its anti-grassroots objectives. Now, if it falls out in predicting certain growth rates or the depth of the recession, as the other anti-population parties have accused it, that in terms of life, everyday life and the prospect of the people for the coming years is of secondary importance. If you want, even a very philosophical budget - which has never existed, of course, nor can there be in this House - it may fall out to certain predictions. Besides, it also expresses forecast trends. Indeed, the work of the New Democracy is not easy. It has to manage EUR 72 billion. This, of course, goes shortly after her formal term of office, because we do not know what will happen in the next elections. Part of these EUR 72 billion, of course, is a loan and is increasing the debt. A place, anyway, is given to the European Union every year by the funds formed by sweat and blood, literally, all the peoples of Europe and the Greeks, who go there. These EUR 72 billion are falling into a territory where there will be a real great massacre between monopolistic groups in the same sector or between different branches, despite the fact that the European Union has given the signal that the majority of EUR 72 billion must fall. There's gonna be a literally massacre! And there will also be questioning governments and oppositions, which have nothing to do with what 72 billion euros mean for the life of the working class, the poor people. After all, all parties praised the Recovery Fund. They applauded the EUR 72 billion available for Greece to overcome the recession, the so-called recession due solely - allegedly - to the coronary. They applauded and are now criticising. If they know they're predetermined! When the European Union decided to relax the financial indicators, it did not leave supervision nor said 'Do what you want. Share them to the peoples and solve the problems of the people's strata or 'Do the alpha or beta'. These are predetermined. The European Union has taken a step backwards, a manoeuvre in relation to budgetary rigour, due to the needs of the European Union and the separate states of capital, in addition to the competitions that exist with China, Russia, the United States, etc. He had to take a step back to it, so relax. This relaxation of the indicators will be paid by the people of Europe. For me, it has indeed caused me - to say so - a pleasant surprise to Mr Drasakis' speech. It was SYRIZA's positions, without the make-up of philosophical, charitable and anti-right slogans. The man said: 'Lords, we must do a cross-party committee to manage the EUR 72 billion'. Is it possible for you to imagine becoming an intergroup committee and be the JRC in it? I don't know if it's gonna happen, and I don't think it's gonna happen. We have a radical, vertical difference with the New Democracy. We do not accuse her of either incompetence or a lack of a holistic perception and something that we heard from the Opposition here in Step. Our opposition is clear from the point of view that we are fighting the capitalist system, from the point of view of being unsurpassed and there is no peaceful coexistence between capital and work, between monopolies and poor populaces in the middle strata. We are not generally talking about the middle-class, because it has a huge stratification and part of it can only exist in coexistence, even with some contradictions, with monopolies. Of course, under no circumstances do we ignore the association of powers. We know very well that the overthrow of civil power and the socialisation of the means of production are not on the agenda today. However, we say in the working class: "You are the sole producer of wealth. The capitalist, the capitalist, is a feather of wealth. And yes, you can also within the framework of the negative association of forces, with your vulgar counterattack, with the rise of class struggle in the social alliance, restrict worse measures, claim not those crumbs that give you as manoeuvre to incorporate you and get used to you in a state of government charity, but claim more." Because, after all, when you fight, you can't set limits. For example, we have brought three amendments to the House. They had nothing to do with labour power. They were three amendments to improve life, to relieve workers, pensioners, the unemployed and to reject them. But there is this issue here. The crisis, as you all say, is a tragedy, but it's an opportunity. But you're all hiding it in this House. Yes, we say that this is an opportunity for capital, to move on to new changes, reforms, modernisations. It is necessary for the capitalist economy to cope with its own contradictions. On the other hand, yes, it is an opportunity for the people to draw political conclusions. Over ten years, from 2009 to 2019, we heard that the crisis was due to inability and corruption of governments. The PASOK, which broke into its hands, loaded it to the Karamanlis government because it says it smashed the debts, etc. The New Democracy then loaded them in PASOK - it went a little further - to support the problems, which the state widened, which made the state's PASOK, etc. PASOK did some state-of-the-art arrangements, as Constantine Karamanlis did after 1974. SYRIZA Full Ethics of the origin of the crisis and reducing it to ideological doctrine. If that doesn't mean you to defend the capitalist system, what is it? Explain to your members, to the world that follows you because the economic capitalist crisis comes after leaps to profitability, even increasing popular consumption, although in popular consumption there are classic different incomes, but there is certainly an increase and a certain relative improvement in the living level of the people. Why is the crisis coming? Suddenly the profits and capital were depleted? No, they don't get into production, because the capitalist system itself is giving birth to the crisis. I can't do an analysis of this. Therefore, the crisis is not a question of competence or inability, morality or dishonesty, without meaning that it is not a full-fledged civil system of hatred and dishonestness, etc. Honestness does not give rise to the crisis. Second matter. This recession that we are going through today, which the Greek economy, the Greek society, passes, is an exclusive result of the coronary? Since 2017, if I remember correctly - perhaps even before - the Communist Party of Greece said that, yes, we will be entering a development path, because the crisis is sweet. It's not the SYRIZA's mathematician who closed the crisis cycle. But we predicted anaemic recovery of the upcoming crisis cycle. Of course, the coronary - it is true - accelerated it and the coronary - is true - plunged it. You are now talking about health crisis and the pluss and other things are about the health system. This does not mean that there should be no proposals, no claims, a struggle for the National Health System, as it is said, which coexists with the majority private business sector. He's a majority. I tell you that even if Greece is full of state hospitals, the private sector will be the bosula. So, yes, you disagree with each other. You know what this reminds me of? It's a normal, if you like, disagreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In order to manage the interests of capital, there are several recipes. It reminds me that if you collect five chefs, they might give you different recipes on how to make a rabbit stew. But, hare stew, you'll eat either with the recipe of one chef or the other. These are your differences. Finally, there is one thing that the people need to see and will see better when they realize that this is the producer of wealth and that it cannot be reconciled with the status of class exploitation, the ownership of the means of production and wealth by capitalists. What does "poverty" mean today? I remember her because, as you know, I'm before the 1950s, how poverty was in the 1950s. People were on the streets, starving. In the 1960s less. Another concept of poverty in the 1950s, another 1960s, another 1970s. Today, poverty is only the extreme that exists and is expanding. Today, poverty does not seem. You may have smartphone and you may be hungry and you may not have to pay your rent. You're poor when your house is flooded and your house is destroyed. You're poor when the environment is speculative. Poverty today has many aspects, too many aspects. Of course she's classified. It's not the same thing to be homeless and you have to take the social skate, with someone who can put even legumes in his soup and eat five times a week. But poverty is widening and, therefore, - to finish - it is easy for New Democracy and SYRIZA and KINAL to manage poverty. The New Democracy says that wages increased by reducing insurance contributions and the figures it provides are from EUR 4 to EUR 15 per month. Really? Is that missing the income? Three-digit number, four-digit lacks to be the standard of living today, not good, but to be tolerated, based on the modern needs, the requirements and the supply of workers. Or the coupons SYRIZA gave to supermarkets to get extreme poverty? Very easily you can handle it. We have confidence in the working people's movement, even when it's in retreat. Because, today, all those factors are inaugurated for his counter-response. If there is no counter-attack, the EUR 72 billion, even at an upward rate of growth, will be the large tombstone, temporary tombstone. The people have to understand the following thing: Whatever they hear, they will pay it twice as much as three times. The pandemic was a proof. Unfortunately, she's not the only one or she won't be the only one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u150	Until the Step is ready, I should like to inform you that my colleague will be given the floor from the Change Movement, Mr Apostolos Panas, and then Mrs Dunya, as the Minister, Mr Koumoutsaskos, said. Here, Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's debate on the budget finds us in a completely different situation from the previous years, with anguish about the development of the health crisis. The development of the pandemic has highlighted the sloppiness - particularly in the second wave - of the government to deal with it, especially in the north of Greece. How is it possible to compromise with a hundred dead a day? Yes, well - because I hear it - the vaccine is a positive outcome, but it cannot be the only strategic solution to follow. The immunosuppressed, allergic, and some other categories of people who already have health issues and should not do the vaccine, what will become of them? It is therefore necessary to combine the vaccine with the enhancement of health structures by relevant personnel, with mass tests per region, with protection measures and new medications that will be approved in the next period. In other words, we will have to create an arsenal of victory in the coming months and only in this way will we achieve final immunity. And because he was before the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilias, should we proceed, in cooperation with the Greek pharmaceutical companies, which are, in all respects, worthwhile in producing monoclonal antibodies, with the brave assistance of the state? Continuing, the budget of 2021 includes unprecedented macroeconomic figures, and it is certain that the recession will be even deeper than what the Minister of Finance claims. At the same time, you are constantly projecting the Recovery Fund, which we have often supported from this Step. But even today there are generalities and ambiguities about the design, implementation and effectiveness of many of the things you say. I am sure, therefore, that further financial support will be needed for the workers and businesses affected, because your vaccination plan is very ambitious and will not yield so quickly, at least in the first quarter of the new year. Furthermore, you should not overlook the fact that, before the pandemic, financial performance was not expected, with the development power being absent and then. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is not economically viable, nor is it fair. Therefore, despite the alleged reformist suffrage, indirect taxes appear to be growing for 2021 as well. Even what was provided for in the 'Refund of advances 4 and 5' programme, for individual enterprises and farmers, was minimal in the light of the problem created. Furthermore, the country, in the wake of the pandemic, will have 200%, and, furthermore, debt as a percentage of GDP. And I wonder how the next generations will survive, which will be charged with unthinkable borrowing? There is an uncertainty even for the heavy industry in our country, which is the tourism sector, which accepted an incalculable damage in 2020, bearing in mind that the relevant revenues were reduced by about 80%, and it does not seem to be able to recover with such ease as you anticipate. In this respect, now, with the agricultural sector, my area of responsibility, the data available for the budget 2021 show a minimal development dimension. The rural world is expected and in 2021 will be faced with tax burdens and farmers will again be asked to pay the tax advance. Once again, there is no provision for the refund of the oil tax, and recently a new charge has been added to oil, which deprives valuable resources of the few available farmers. As far as the development dimension is concerned, the budget in the national part of the Public Investment Programme does not provide for serious funding, while the funding for livestock and fisheries is zero. At the same time, the use of rural development programmes and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund programme is also problematic. Therefore, in addition to the lack of coherent planning, the funding of all actions is entirely based on European funds. With regard to the Halkidiki Regional Unit, where I am elected, the recent health crisis has shown inadequacies and structural weaknesses. Halkidiki is located essentially in Lockdown since August 6, with the tourist season practically lost. Workers, catering professionals, owners of small and large tourist establishments are facing serious economic problems, while at the same time uncertainty there is also whether it can be a smooth next tourist season. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] This, together with other parameters, such as the spatial planning bill, creates additional problems in the tourism sector. Halkidiki, also last year, was faced with disasters, floods and fires, without the appropriate deterrent infrastructure, but not even the management of them. Furthermore, for example, anti-military works are expected in Olympiad. At the same time, in the infrastructural sector, there is no development on serious issues. A characteristic is the port of Uranoupolis, while with regard to the Habria dam, which we have defended from this Step and so awaited, it leaves out of water most of Halkidiki and especially the region of Kassandra, which has the greatest need. The rural population needs support at the level of infrastructure. And there is the Triglia dam, which is ponding at the end of another programming period. Finally, the table olive, to which I have referred as well from this Step and there is the commitment of Minister Vorides to the state aid of producers, must be at the centre and promoted as one of the top national added-value products for the country. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of 2021 is not in a position to predict, nor to support, the necessary development assistance that the country needs. At the same time, the state's operating costs are increased, while critical sectors are underfunded, creating dangerous conditions. For all these reasons, I will not vote for the budget proposed, of course, covering the overall reasoning developed by the Change Movement by our special speakers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Dunia has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u153	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budget shows in the most obvious way the direct link between the budgets of a state and the emergency situations that this is being called upon to deal with. It is a realistic budget. At the same time, however, it is a budget of reformist, socially rewarding and developmental. As we all know, the Greek state was called upon to deal with the greatest post-war crisis within 2020. The COVID pandemic -19 had serious consequences for our economy, as well as for the global economy. The economic planning of the year has necessarily been adapted to the unprecedented circumstances we have faced, in order to defend public health and social justice, of goods which are clearly beyond the development and achievement of our budgetary objectives. The Ministry of Finance, faced with unprecedented circumstances, tried in every way to alleviate the adverse effects of pandemic on citizens, businesses and the Greek economy. And he did this to a large extent. It has implemented a series of measures to support the economy immediately. These interventions are divided into sixty two categories of measures, totalling more than EUR 31 million. In particular, support measures this year amounted to nearly EUR 24 million, while in 2021 they accounted for around EUR 7.5 million. At the same time, he carried out additional emergency interventions, such as expenditure on the management of migratory flows and strengthening the national defence, which, logically, burdened his budgets as well as his subsequent years. In addition, the compensation and infrastructure projects for disaster recovery caused by the floods in Evia, the Mediterranean cyclone ‘Janus’ and the Samos earthquake, together with the payment of retroactive amounts to pensioners, further increased the cost of 2020. Thus, we should not be surprised that global financial interventions to boost the economy and address the above-mentioned crises in 2020 have had a significant impact on our country's growth rates. Is all this pleasant? Definitely not for either of us. It was, however, more than necessary for the protection of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget of 2021 is a fact that it was drawn up in a period of uncertainty, due to a number of uncertain factors, such as the determination of the exact duration of the pandemic. This does not mean, however, that it has not anticipated the support of households and businesses that will be affected in the first period of 2021 by the effects of the pandemic and the increase of EUR 600 million by the benefits of vulnerable social groups. This is because, both before and during the health crisis, we are planning and implementing policies that support employment and the available income of citizens, with particular care for the weakest financially, such as the long-term unemployed, the low wages and the workers in businesses that have been closed down by government order. In other words, it is a budget of social law, and this is largely due to the support measures that we have taken at the beginning of the pandemic. At the same time it is a budget with a positive figure. The growth of the Greek economy in 2021 is estimated at 4.8%. We think it's a possible target. In this respect they advocate the trust that our country now enjoys internationally and the resulting reduction in the cost of borrowing Greece at historically low levels. The European funds that we have secured will begin to flow under the Recovery Fund. In particular, in 2021, it is foreseen that the resources the country will draw from the funds of the fund will exceed EUR 5,5 billion. The Ministry of Finance is, in fact, working on a coherent national strategic development plan for the best possible use of these resources. An important role in achieving growth is still playing the acceleration of reforms that are expected to contribute to attracting new investments. These reforms aim to achieve sustainable growth, create many jobs and strengthen social cohesion. I would like to point out here that even in the extremely unfavourable circumstances of 2020, the Government has implemented a series of reforms, including comprehensive investment projects such as the Hellenic Republic, the launching of competitive procedures for the use of regional ports, the submission of the national development framework for the treatment of high private debt, the implementation of the HERAKLIS programme to reduce red loans, the activation of the GEYRA programme to grant first home loans to borrowers affected by the pandemic and others. Also, in this direction are the permanent tax reductions already implemented by the government, such as the reduction of income tax on natural persons, the reduction of HPAI, the total exemption for the inhabitants of small remote islands from HPAI, the suspension of VAT on new buildings, the reduction or zeroing of the advance tax and others. Charge suspensions on different categories of goods and services affected by the pandemic until April 2021. The payment of special-purpose allowances to employees or enterprises on temporary suspension of work or taking part in the programme ‘COMPANY WORK’. The payroll of temporary health personnel recruited in 2020, as well as the staff recruited to meet the needs of the public transport. The reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions since the first day of 2021, the suspension of the solidarity contribution for incomes from private economic activity and the cover of insurance contributions for the recruitment of long-term unemployed persons under a programme to create 100 thousand new jobs. The Equity Facility to be continued in 2021, such as the repayable advance, the Entrepreneurship Fund II and the Guarantee Fund. The liquidity of the Greek economy from these programmes is expected to exceed EUR 12 billion this year, not least in terms of value. Of course, the fact that, as in 2020, there will not be an additional tax on households and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021, in addition to the undeniable priority of tackling the health crisis, the main thing is to strengthen the Armed Forces, support for vulnerable social groups, support for health with additional costs of infrastructure equipment and recruitment to the National Health System, support for education through recruitment of permanent teachers, more efficient treatment of migratory flows and more. Expected recovery of the economy into a growth orbit in 2021 implies a positive development of key economic realities. Unemployment is thus projected to fall by one percentage point. Investments are expected to increase by around 23% next year. Inflation will move in a positive context. Tax revenue will increase significantly, reaching around EUR 48 billion, after the sharp decline this year. Finally, state budget expenditure will fall slightly. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 state budget is a budget that bears witness to seriousness, responsibility, morality, social needs and problems, the quick reflexes and, of course, the budgetary flexibility that the government sees. The positive direction towards which the new budget moves is already recognised by society, our partners, investors, rating agencies and markets. It is certainly not accidental to upgrade our country's credit rating capacity by the rating house 'MODYS'. On the other hand, it is due to the recovery of our credibility and the serious governmental work carried out even under such unfavourable circumstances. I am sure that with the solid foundations we have already set and the coherent policies that we are going to pursue, the course of the Greek economy will be only upwards and that we will be able to achieve our ultimate goal of sustainable and socially just development. Thank you very much. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, my colleague. Now the Deputy Minister for Immigration and Asylum, Mr Kumucascus, has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Christmas and New Year's Days will be very different this year, a fact without a precedent. Families and friends will not meet and there will be people who will alone give the battle with the virus that has invaded our life and everyday life. Our thoughts are to them and to their families. At the same time, the market will operate in terms and ways that are unprecedented, as above and above all our care is to protect public health and human life. Expecting the vaccine, reliable and tested, we are at the most critical moment of the hard battle, individual and collective, with the pandemic, which as everywhere in the world testifies our strengths. The strengths of society, the strengths of the state mechanism, the National Health System, the economy, the strengths of the citizens who are today suffocating and at the same time struggling for tomorrow, what is to be done. They seek a assurance of confidence and look forward to an opportunity of hope. So, at this no previous difficult time, in the storm, we are talking here, and we are being called upon to decide on the state budget for next year, namely, the economic and political compass that will lead us through today's storm in the recovery of the economy and the uprooting of society, which, as always happens in critical and difficult hours, has its eyes on its political leadership. Citizens are watching and counting us. They are well aware of the great difficulties, understand and recognize the efforts, even some mistakes made at the time of the great battle. However, what they do not forgive is for them to see us below the gravity of moments, trapped in a sterile, outdated micro-party political confrontation, to fight for the small, rather than join forces for the big ones. The big ones at this juncture are not just about dealing with pandemic and its effects on the economy. They concern the treatment of Turkey's geopolitical 'bulimia' and the great problem of managing the migratory challenge. Four crises have been confronted by this government in a few months: its health and economic dimension, geopolitics and immigration. He has dealt with all four with absolute competence, effectively. I hear the epidermal and mistrustful criticism of Antipopulation, and I wonder if it is conscious of the scale of the difficulties and the effort required, if it hears the aid coming from the vast majority of the citizens who say 'happily that these difficult times do not govern the previous, the others', that is, you, the Anti-Population. The citizens' confidence in your policy is in Nadir, but you are insisting on a political micro-group. Refusal to everything. An opposition to the opposition. So, of course, you do not win, nor do you contribute to the national effort. Fortunately, then, you are not ruling. The government’s budget within the storm of the time emits seriousness, gives confidence, allows hope. It is serious because, while moving on to the necessary expenditure to support the economy and society, workers, free traders, businesses, public health, national defence and immigration policy, it does not give rise to waste of resources. The budget is spent and is not wasted unnecessarily. The budget also gives citizens certain certainty, as despite extremely difficult conditions, especially in the last pandemic wave, it is moving on with a firm package of EUR 7.5 billion in support, with guarantees, with compensation, with tax relief, protecting employees, businesses, farmers, borrowers, unemployed. Surely citizens also enjoy the fact that Greece enjoys the trust of partners, creditors and markets, as confirmed by its participation in the decisions on extraordinary European funds, i.e. the recovery of savings and the historically low interest rates of Greek bonds. Finally, the budget justifies hope. Despite the juncture, not only maintains, but strengthens the government's reform and development agenda, with the Pissaridis report roadmap. We have already submitted the draft national recovery plan to the European Commission and in the first quarter we will finalise it. Also, in 2021, the first two instalments of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism will be invaded. The absorption of the European funds of the recovery plan of around EUR 32 billion, but also the new ESRB, is expected to contribute to the development of the Gross National Product. With this data and taking into account the unfavourable pandemic scenario, we expect recovery to reach 4.8%. In difficult times, therefore, prospects justify realistic optimism. Against them, however, you oppose an irreversible continual refusal. Your persistent shallow criticism sounds like a bewilderment by the citizens. I'm sorry to say that your motive is not the contribution to the great effort. The way you speak, instead of contributing, often looks like you most often with attempted sabotage. And that's not all you do in the economy. You do it in other, very sensitive fronts of national effort. In immigration, unfortunately, you are rushing unreasonably and dangerously to adopt every charge that goes against the country for the way it controls, protects and guards its borders. Finally understand that the spectacular reduction of migration flows and illegal arrivals on our territory is a victory for our port and police and defeat of circuits, defeat of poachers, but also for those who support them hidden in darkness. They have lost tens of millions of euros, because they can no longer exploit and trade desperate people. So they react their circuits and supporters, react rabies in every way and every means and you hear charges against Greece. Let's get something clearer, then. Greece protects its borders by respecting human life and international law. We have neither violated this fine line nor violated it. And to end here, and the 'fringements' of some in Brussels, which applauded us in March as Europe's 'wielding' and now blame us for the same reason. However, positive steps in immigration have not only been taken to reduce illegal flows. We also had to increase relocations, departures from Greece to other European countries. Despite the obstacles and delays in the pandemic, we are effectively implementing a complete relocation programme from Greece to Europe, whether this concerns unaccompanied minors, children with severe illnesses, or the members of their families, whether it concerns recognised refugees or just asylum seekers. A total of three thousand people left Greece for seventeen countries in Europe and we intend to achieve the target of another six thousand, for whom Member States have committed themselves. Another positive development which states the effectiveness of our policy is the worthwhile results of the asylum service, which has taken advantage of the legal framework that we have introduced at the beginning of the year and now produces eighty thousand first and second-degree decisions, which makes it the second most productive asylum service in Europe after the German one. Finally, with alliances, initiatives and clear positions, we have strengthened the country's position in the ongoing difficult negotiations on the new European immigration and asylum policy. Our fundamental position is a fair distribution of the burden of immigration, a balance of obligations that we have as a first-line country with practical solidarity from our partners in the form of substantial, practical policies, particularly relocations. Madam President, before I close, you will also allow me to speak briefly on our major foreign policy issue, on Greek-Turkish relations and on Europe's attitude to Turkey. Our partners and allies must clearly see the new situation of things that Turkey wants to shape in the Aegean Sea and in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. Expansion of her presence and her influence is called. The doctrine of the "Blue Country" is not a motto, it is not a rhetorical rise. It's a conscious strategic pursuit. It's the expression of neo-homomanism. It is the eastern issue in the 21st century, that is, Turkey's attempt to recover and expand its presence and influence in areas that it considers to be former Ottoman territories, from Syria to Libya, from Cyprus and the Aegean to Azerbaijan and Armenia. President Erdogan does not want - and he does not want - to change the arrangements of the Losan Treaty, so he will continue to violate international law and give rise to tension in the region. So Europe must first engage in this policy of aggressive expansion of Turkey and, after achieving it, then move on to a positive agenda for cooperation with Turkey, but which, however, has made itself responsible for its actions, with a positive agenda that has strong heresy with strict conditions, prerequisites and conditions. For its part Greece will implement the policy announced by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is not enough for a break in intensity with a drop in tone for a few days and a return to extremes shortly afterwards. It is not enough for the set-aside of the 'ORUC REIS'. So we're not asking for a break in tension. We call for a period of recession, so that we can enter into a dialogue that is not underscored by intelligence, with a clear objective of delimiting the maritime zones and obviously not the defence and ownership of the Greek islands. The success of our foreign policy is linked to our strong defence. I therefore welcome the increase in the defensive expenditure provided for in the budget, a budget that gives prospects, but first of all in the current circumstances, serves the safety of human life, public health, vulnerable citizens, every worker, domestic entrepreneurship, families and children, who serve the safety of the country. That is why I support and vote with all my power in the 2021 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u157	Mr Kumucako, you have made one of the most provocative and arbitrary positions that has dared your Minister of Government to come to this Parliament these days and do. You do this as a representative of a government that comes one day after this so bad for our national interests, a diplomatic defeat at the summit. You do this when your Prime Minister has confessed that at the time you had to fight against the coronary, you were reassuring and going cyclists to Parnitha. You did this when you are now prolonging the lockdown and thousands of businesses, tens of thousands of workers have led them to tragedy and despair. And you have the courage here to come with the retro slogan "happily that you do not govern" and to devote seven minutes of your speech to attack the Opposition and only two to talk about your own portfolio and your government's events. I close, Madam President, with a word: As long as you do not wake up and as long as you are in touch with social reality, so long as you do not understand, because you will say to us "happily you do not govern" and we will not answer you, but the Greek people will answer and what the Greek people will say to you, Mr Kumucako, is "unfortunately you are ruling".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u158	Mr Mylonis will now speak and then the Minister will answer the question as a whole. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I really expected you because you're a technocrat, to talk about your budget and portfolio. We did have questions to ask. But I never expected this triple, greedy black propaganda you did. You first made an incredible propaganda waiting for the vaccine reliable and tested. Just yesterday the Vice-President of the EHR said: "Even he is not tested if he answers all questions and we do not know how much a person can with this vaccine". EVY gives recorded deaths of three thousand three hundred eighty three, and ID's a thousand eight hundred and thirty - six, and we're talking about human lives. Secondly, there is the second better production of asylum services in Greece. Can you tell us, please, how many people have been judged not to be entitled to asylum from the hundreds of thousands you collected here in mainland Greece and from those who are still on the islands and are gone or where they have gone? That's a question. Unless everyone's entitled to asylum. Three thousand Somals waiting across and passing through all the time. The third: What's black propaganda that you developed, the theory in here about what Erdogan wants? Don't we know about the Blue Homeland? Did you come to Parliament to tell us about the 'Blue Home', about Erdogan's neo-manism and about the fact that it is constantly violating international law? Aren't we ashamed? Are you a government? The Prime Minister went to Brussels and returned empty-handed. I would remind you what SYRIZA did and what you were shouting at with the referendum on 'No' which was made 'Yes'. Turkey was subjected to sanctions? Are you kidding the Greek people? Fourthly, we want an answer, what the Greek Government will do with what Erdogan continues to do and ask. That's what we're interested in. Leave Europe alone. Europe is doing its job. Nobody's going to help Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Colleague, you had one minute and you did three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u161	One last thing: What happened with the two spies who were mistakenly released to newspapers and the media by the government and who, while confessing that they were spying against our country, the two Muslims are now free and went to the consulate? That's what you're telling us, not what you've been telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start with Mr. Ragosi. Mr Ragossi, the irritation, the tension and the extremity of what you have said betray your great irritation, the inability to support a policy limited to an unfounded, shallow criticism for micro-party reasons at all levels. You cannot reconcile the fact of a positive paradox that Greece has been living in the last few months. What is this positive paradox? Often, Mr Ragossi, the crises - and even such a scale - are destroying, affecting governments. So here is the positive paradox that I am telling you. The government, confronting four major-scale crises - pandemic, economic, immigration and national - remains so far from you that you can't even see our back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u164	Observations, how long have you seen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u165	Instead of familiarising yourself with this situation and wondering whether you should change the Roots, you come here, but above all outside this Chamber and do everything you can, not as I told you in my speech as a kind of contribution to the national effort, but as a constant attempt to destroy it, and that is why you will never again win any votes for a definitively lost credibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u166	Do you know how many people have said this, Mr. Kumucaco?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u167	So let's go on to what you said about the outcome of the summit. The result was absolutely what Greece was asking for? Oh, no. But what is the aim of the country's foreign policy? Does it "small" Turkey or lead it to a road that will allow a lasting recession and thus launch a non-substantiated dialogue with specific content? This is a question, not a pursuit, not a masturbation of Turkey. What I mentioned in analyzing the new Eastern issue of the 21st century, gentlemen of the Greek Solution, I did not do it as a lesson to the Greeks, but as a suggestion to the Europeans to understand and understand developments in the region and, indeed, to point out two stages of policy that should have, on the one hand, the resurgence of this without a measure of aggression and, on the other, the holding of Turkey near the West on terms and conditions. As far as the Greek attitude is concerned, you are well aware that for two months the Greek Armed Forces, the Navy and their whole, have been vigilant, vigilant, supporting national interests in conjunction with a dense diplomatic action by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That is the essence of the debate. As far as immigration is concerned, I have given you three evidence that our policy is positive. They were reduced, illegal flows were reduced to the country and relocations increased, despite the coronary and its impact on the implementation of this policy in the countries of Europe. We sent three thousand five hundred out, and our target is still six thousand, something unthinkable under the present circumstances. The asylum office is making decisions to know who is entitled to international protection and who is not. Because you asked me, I'm telling you that over 60% are the ones who are rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u168	Have they gone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u169	We've had this conversation a hundred times. I say to you: You find the policy that those who are rejected will put them in a carton and send them with "DHL" in Afghanistan. I'm telling you, this is happening with a very hard job, a flight, a hundred people - a hundred people, which requires a huge effort. So you are plundering by saying that it can be done from one day to the other mass repatriation of thousands of people. Who are you kidding?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u170	For sanctions that "bite" who spoke? Who announced sanctions to bite?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u171	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, let the Minister answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u173	And the last, gentlemen, of counter-population: no one has the intention of dynamising the necessary climate of understanding and national convergence in these difficult times for all. And yet not the government. If, therefore, you are looking for the source of tension and fights for small and not large jobs, you must look for them in your own bays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gikas has the floor now in New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget, which we are debating today, I believe that it will remain in parliamentary memory and history for two reasons, mainly: the first reason is because it is coming in the middle of a global health, economic and social crisis which, of course, has also affected our country. The second reason is that it comes at a time when our national issues have been at a particular turning point, which Turkey has been directly questioning national sovereign rights for many months and where the Armed Forces as a whole from March this year until today are almost constantly in a situation of immediate operational readiness. Both these issues in the 2021 budget are dealt with in a comprehensive and drastic way. I'm starting with the second one. The 2021 budget is investing in the country's defence and security. When the Step on this day of last year made the proposal to triple the Armed Forces' armaments expenditure, some on the opposition side looked at me strange. This budget quadruples the armaments expenditure of the Armed Forces. It is a sound, proper, necessary decision to modernise and upgrade our Armed Forces. I really listened with great interest last night to SYRIZA's national defense officer, whom I honor and respect, Mr Dritsa, saying that SYRIZA put back and priority in modernising and upgrading the armed systems of the Armed Forces. What back? What modernization is SYRIZA telling us? Even for the few equipment programmes that have been promoted, there are many questions about their proper priority. I will give you an example. Instead of modernising the average life of the MEPs, you preferred with the same money to modernise the decommissioned aircraft of maritime cooperation P-3B Orion. So I'm not sure it was a wise and right choice. So you say things that do not respond to reality. And that's not right when we talk about such important issues. I now come to the second part of the health, social and economic crisis. Indeed, the government was asked to deal primarily with the sanitary part over time. I think we have all seen the thousands of recruits of doctors, nurses, other ancillary staff - more than seven thousand - over double the number of intensive care units. In any case, over 800 million euros were added to the Ministry of Health budget. On the other hand, the government has extended a protection net to all those affected, whether they were workers or companies, or they were borrowers, real estate owners, throughout society. With sixty-two important interventions and 24 billion euros this year, it has covered, as far as possible, people, citizens, the businesses they need. Only in my constituency, in Corfu, from the liquidity instruments were allocated up to 1 December, over 150 million euros, which, of course, give a breath to the affected economy on the island. A total of over 11 billion euros went to the country for liquidity. And the 2021 budget has another EUR 7.5 billion to fight against the coronary and all the issues that arise. But the government has continued its reform work all this time. A body of critical bills were passed in the Greek Parliament, which will form the basis, the background on which the recovery of our economy and growth will be based the next day. All this, with the general acceptance of the international community and markets - I will say - is because only a few weeks ago, the health crisis was mediated and the MODY'S in Lockdown upgraded the country's creditworthiness. All this time we borrowed at extremely low interest rates, some of which Mr Tsakalotos, the best professor, was not even seen with the microscope seventeen months ago, probably with the binoculars. And, of course, important foreign houses have come this time, despite pandemic, and they invest in our country. This is a vote of confidence both with the Greek Government and with the prospects for the development of this country. As time passes, the 2021 budget is an important budget. It is one of the few budgets that does not increase taxes, and it is evenly reducing taxes, which is pro-investing and, if you will, embrace society because it calculates the uncertain factors, the specificities and needs of this period. And that's why he's flexible. And with its flexibility, efficiency, reformist and development perspective, it becomes a crucial and useful tool to overcome this crisis. For all these reasons, of course, we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that the 2021 budget, which we are debating and being voted on today, is at an extremely difficult time, the depth and intensity of which few waited for this time last year when we discussed the 2020 budget. This combination of health, economic and social crisis, which affects all regions in the world with greater or less tension, may not be historically innovative, but is certainly the most serious of post-war years. The above figures are certain that the government and its allies are trying to show them as decisive in order to justify the unfavourable situation in the country in the field of health, the economy, the labour market and everywhere. The data, especially in the field of health, are, of course, the other key point, where the government's account conflicts frontal with reality. We have heard the Minister of Health at the Step of the House just now - and we have heard him very carefully - trying to create an excellent picture and to perfect the situation today in the field of health. And of course we have heard him with an extremely consensual reason to call for the contribution and consensus, particularly the Officerial Representation, to the issues that he is facing as Minister of Health and more specifically to the draft of national vaccination. We should inform the Minister that consensus is not founded on declaratory levels, but rather on the realm and remind him of the responsible attitude which he had taken as a whole - I would say - the opposition, but crucially our own place, with suggestions, with remarks in the right direction, with constructive criticism, and which we, of course, have received the depreciation, lumping and many times the attacks of the Minister. Of course, we will also not forget the completely ideological approach of the government that is presenting itself, of course, in the budget of 2021, which we are debating today. How is the ESS and primary health care based? With adequate, permanent medical and nursing staff, as well as prescribing the tests, when this is not only a universal requirement for citizens, but also an unsolved health and scientific necessity. Let me make a reference to the issues which are reflected in the budget and which are related to shipping and island policy. The relevant budget of the Ministry for 2021 remains substantially at 2020 levels, with a small nominal increase of EUR 1.8 million. Important questions are therefore raised for the underfunding of two important policies, firstly, the subsidies for the barren lines, where the Ministry announced an increase of EUR 130 million on an annual basis. However, the appropriations from the co-financed section of the Public Investment Programme for the headquarters of the Port Authority amount to only EUR 71.8 million. So how is this deviation justified if it is not actually a fireworks thing? Secondly, the appropriations from the Public Investment Programme to the General Secretariat of the Aegean Islands and Islands Policy are only EUR 23.8 million, which will finance policies such as those concerning, for example, the waterless islands, cultural activities and transport equivalents. And especially for the latter, let me say that the needs are about three times the budget of this secretariat. This last element of dedication, if not the shrinking of a flagrant island policy that we have implemented, namely transport equivalent, reflects both the general approach of the Development Government and the more specific policies on the islands, i.e. the unexistent footprint of island policy and the budget of 2021. No special provision for supporting health structures in island Greece, with the additional difficulties known to us! Unfortunately, your vision of the islands, gentlemen of the government, seems to be exhausted in the construction of only giant closed centres for refugees and immigrants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. "shipwreck of shipwrecks", to remember Alexander Papadiamanti, the day-to-day account of the work of the government. ‘shipwreck’ means the budget of 2021 for the real needs of society. ‘shipwreck’ means the government's nonexistent island policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Angelos Tsigris, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u179	Madam President, allow me to begin my speech before I turn to the House and register in the Minutes this volume I received yesterday. I had the honour of representing the House in the martyrly Kalavry to be given to me, but I don't own it. It belongs to the House, so that the existing ones can be informed and the next ones can know that we must not forget. It is a page - page all the destruction, the whole Holocaust of December 13, 1943, which must remain deeply engraved in our memories, now that the last survivors and eyewitnesses are leaving. On the budget, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before deciding whether to vote on the budget, we have to ask ourselves as a country: Do we want to go forward or do we want to go back? Are we gonna resist pandemic and crisis or kneel down, bend like a society? Are we going to stand up to defend Greece and its citizens, or will we be caught by a collective, national depression? If we do not answer these questions - what do we really want? - Obviously, we will have questions if we have to vote on this budget, because this budget, despite the global budgetary conditions of crisis and collapse, is nationally beneficial and socially necessary. I will not tire of things and numbers that many colleagues have mentioned and, of course, much better than all of us, the finance ministers. I will stay on tax relief, because in 2020 Greeks have paid off some tax burdens over the last few decades. They are continuing and, indeed, they are expanding, we have said what these are. With this one would expect, because we will have a delay - obviously - in the incomes of the state, that we will also have a reduction in expenditure. Nevertheless, expenditure increases and not only increases, rising by EUR 10 billion. A brave sixty-two-group program is being prepared to stand up to society and the economy alive from the crisis, but also to protect the health of Greek citizens, of the order of 31.5 billion euros. EUR 7.5 billion, EUR 7 500 million, will be provided in 2021. At the same time, this year's budget fully helps patients, those affected, the unemployed, the freelance professionals, the people who take the crisis. But I would say, Minister, on this occasion that we should never be satisfied. We must make an effort in 2021 to support even more the citizens in need, the farmers, the retailer, the middle-professional and businessman, the free trader, the entire Greek society without discrimination and without a mark. No one should stay behind. However, since these have been mentioned, I would like to refer to the innovations in this budget that have not actually been heard very much in this House, because the 2021 budget is a really innovative budget for two reasons, because it is still a performance budget. What the government started last year in six Ministries piloted this year extends to thirteen areas of government action. What's the performance budget? The government - you know - doesn't move the finger, showing the responsibilities to each other. First of all, she counts her own performance. It sets targets by Ministry - in thirteenths this year - and looks at the end of the year if the targets were achieved, whether we went over the bar or underneath. We're all judging, you know. We in our party, this government judges all its members and, of course, their effectiveness over the benefit of Greek citizens. In the Ministry of Justice, for example, six programmes are being drawn up for the administration of justice, for the protection of human rights, for digital justice - I am sorry, I read them so that I do not forget one - for international judicial protection, for the protection of minors, for the effective design of the Ministry, with objectives that need to be achieved. But there is something even more important. The most important thing is that there is an incorporation of the environmental dimension now in the performance budget. How's the budget? For the first time, the environmental footprint of our budgetary policies is assessed for the protection of climate change. For example, in the Ministry of Civil Protection there is a programme - I mention issues that are much more familiar with me - the 'PYROSTECHIC SERVICES' programme, which is in charge of it, in 2021, the headquarters of the Firehouse, as it is of course. It aims to protect the life, the property of the citizens and the state, as well as the natural wealth of the country, mainly the forest wealth of Greece. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, from the EUR 500 million and something from the EUR 501 million - I end, Madam President, in half a minute - 90% goes to environmental actions, that is to say to save the forests. And what do we put as a measurement indicator? We place a measuring indicator of 10% reduction in forest disasters, of acres that are destroyed every year, each year reducing disasters by 10%. So we are creating an environmental footprint, environmental awareness and measuring our political credibility and action. Madam President, to be useful, I would say, Minister, that performance budget should also be discussed in this House. I would suggest twice a year, a middle of the year, to the relevant committees dealing with each ministry and at the same time, at the end - accountingly - of the year, so that before we come to the next budget debate the House can be informed, regardless of the ministry and whatever budgetary policy. This will make a great contribution to transparency, at the same time as to accountability and deepening of democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote on the budget, because it is a budget that is socially sensitive, timelyly, economically sound, budgetaryly balanced, legally innovative, institutionally reformative, but above all, nationally beneficial. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u180	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor from SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, can you speak a little more slowly, why do you sound forward? Thank you. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and the vote on the budget for 2021 is taking place in extremely special circumstances. The pandemic and its confrontation by the state, public health management, the crisis in the economy, the crisis in national issues will determine our country and citizens' lives not only in 2021, but also in the years to come. The government, following the positive response of the first wave of pandemic, to which probably dominated the 'first health and then the economy', effectively going against its ideology, reverted to insurmountable neoliberalism. She returned to what is her nature, DNA, which is to promote profit and privatization even of public goods, such as health, education, energy, water, the environment. That is why the second wave is facing it without any plan, no preparation, but'seeing and doing' and, of course, no time. Even if the second wave came a year later, I am sure it would be even worse, because you would have had time to degrade the National Health System even more. You would have had time to close hospitals, you would have gone to privatization of public health structures and, of course, you would have reduced health care staff even further. That is why you did not even implement the recruitments launched and budgeted by the SYRIZA government. That's why you didn't do a single ICU than the previous government handed you over, because you think it's money thrown away, as the Government's representative informed us. That is why you did not do the ICMs in time, even those who were financed by individuals or by the House itself. That's why even when the ESS crossed its limits, you instead of dictating private structures, chose to convert public hospitals to single-thematic hospitals for COVID by canceling surgery, regular external medical services, imports, treatments, etc. with huge repercussions on citizens' health, which will appear later. You even used the tests to serve this policy and, in the middle of a pandemic, this government has a lower health budget of 572 million euros, compared to last year in a country where the death rate per 100 000 population is now extremely high and people are being lost from lack of preparation, and they could have been saved. Now we're going to the economy. A 10.5% downward trend, that is twice as much as the one you had anticipated at the beginning of 2020. However, the most crucial is the impact of the recession on large social groups. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, pandemic can be a natural phenomenon, a natural disaster, but the magnitude of the recession, and much more the management you are managing, is not natural phenomena, as you are desperately trying to convince us from here with lies of the type 'The same is happening throughout Europe'. By lying, you confess to your inability to convince society of the correctness of your policy. For example, I mention the direct budgetary aid that is in our country at 1.1% of GDP, when in France and Portugal it was 2.4% and 2.5% respectively, while in strong economic countries, such as Germany, it was 10.1% of GDP. Let us also see the comparison of social policy with other governments. In particular, I would like to refer to the Spanish budget, where there the government is a government of cooperation between socialists and leftists. There, therefore, is an increase of over 150% to strengthen the public health system. Of course, they will apply a fairer tax system with an increase in taxation for very, very large incomes. What is this government doing? He's making a redistribution of wealth downwards. On the other hand, you, with the Banking Code, are leading to the disappearance of even the middle-class that voted for you, because he believed you would support it, while with a fast-track process, 81% of small and medium-sized enterprises and six hundred thousand households are going to go bankrupt. Also, there is a risk that two thousand jobs will be lost, as the Institute of GATT says. Even worse are things for private workers, where you have spent all the important work done by the SYRIZA Government to protect workers and regulate the labour market. For farmers in particular, aid from the budget is almost nonexistent. With regard to strengthening the agricultural income for the losses suffered by the pandemic, you have excluded farmers from the special scheme, who are generally small farmers and young farmers, but also for those who cannot demonstrate a reduction in their income in relation to 2020, due to the extreme weather patterns that had occurred in 2019. Furthermore, instead of returning the special oil tax, which the Prime Minister had committed to at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, we have an increase of 3 minutes per litre. However, for blue children, for the posters of the Ministry of Rural Development, the budget shows a 30% increase for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the countdown for the government has begun. Listen to the view of society, according to a very recent survey: 50% of Greeks believe that the state must have a more active and decisive role, while this percentage a year ago was at 37%. The pandemic has increased the world's conviction that the state must intervene more. The proportion of society that believes the country is going in the right direction has also been reduced by twenty points. From 67% he's been to 47%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need a few more seconds. So the diversification of society within ten months is scary and, of course, embraced with the pandemic, but mainly because of the management that this government has done. Your narrative is now humiliating. You know that your time ends and that is why you resort to "fake news" and "paid pistols" of Tsipras's homes, while, of course, you consider every other point of view, even when it is journalistic, as happened two, three days ago with a post by Ms. Helena Akrita in "NEA". It is clear that I am voting against this budget. I am voting against him because, while a huge social tragedy is evolving, the government in 2021 reduces health, education and social welfare expenditure and redistributes wealth in favour of your few 'friends'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, my colleague. For seven minutes, Mr Karaoglou, the Secretary of State for the Interior, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking from time to time, I would say that the 2021 budget is our 'embol' for the Greek economy, it is the'medicine' that will shield workers, employers, unemployed people, people with disabilities and all those who have been tested and are still tested for the very difficult months of the pandemic. In this context of generalised liquidity, the government's economic policy aims to overcome the health crisis. We are working with a plan and wiseness so that the next day will find both society and the economy standing, because only in this way will our country return to progress. The budget we presented for 2021 promotes reforms, meets the requirements and needs of the time, and is distinguished by its social recompense. We are told that no one will be left alone and helpless, and that we are doing so. We are committed to supporting small and medium-sized business, and we are doing so. We have been told that the health crisis will evolve into an opportunity and we are doing everything possible, so that the post-COVID era will be accompanied by high sustainable and smart growth, growth for many and not for the few, growth for those who know how to fight and dream better days. That is why I will describe the new year's budget as a budget for responsibility, discipline, consistency, recovery and upheaval. It's realistic, because he's steadfastly optimistic. It is a development budget, because it is an especially pro-investment budget. He's a reformist, because he's flexible. But, above all, it is dignified because it incorporates the consequences of the pandemic, without promiseing duoly and inexistently 'leaf trees'. In short, the 2021 budget is the roadmap that will lead us to the clearing of real growth. The policy we have implemented so far has been based on tax reductions, reductions in insurance contributions. The policy that we will continue to pursue will have as a basis effective economic practice, the improvement of tax administration, the development of an even more favourable investment environment, energy and digital upgrading, green growth and export promotion. It is our productivity plan that increases competitiveness. Excellently important for the economy of the country is the fact that the recovery planned for 2021 is facilitated by policies such as the reduction of income tax on natural persons, the reduction of HPAI, the suspension of VAT on new buildings and investments, the incentives for natural persons for investment funds in newly-born companies, the reduction - or even zero - of tax advances, the cover of insurance contributions for new recruitments, the clearing of tax liabilities, the reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions from 1st of the new year and the abolition of the Solidarity Contribution for Income from private economic activity. For those who blame us as social anals, using the known chips, I would remind you that in 2021, on the basis of the budget, grants for support to vulnerable social groups are increased by EUR 600 million. I would also remind you that during the pandemic, EUR 31.5 billion has been channelled or will be channelled into the real economy, of which EUR 24 billion is for 2020 and EUR 7.5 billion for 2021. A significant increase is also predicted in the revenues of the new budget, mainly due to the economic growth envisaged, but also to the increase in employment. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is at the point where a new era is marked. The dynamic recovery is an absolutely feasible objective thanks to the significant improvement we expect to see in investment growth. The climate changes daily for the better and all major investors already recognize that Greece is now a friendly place for domestic and international business. I bring you as an example a great investment made in my home country, in Thessaloniki, where the colossus "PFIZER" expands its presence in the city and strengthens its investment with the creation of the digital hub. Being in charge of the Thessaloniki CEO of "PFIZER" Albert Burla, Thessaloniki, ladies and gentlemen, entered the global research map. Consider that in the two research centres at first instance at least six hundred high-level scientists will be working, with the prospect that this figure will be doubled very soon. It is our golden opportunity for the generation of Brain Drain to become the generation of Brain Gain. It is a goal that can only be achieved by attracting similar investments that create stable, qualitative and well-paid jobs, which will give our young people the right to dream of their development within the country and which will keep them in their home place. In the decision ‘PFIZER’ to expand its investment in Thessaloniki, the fact that it remained satisfied with the development of its digital infrastructure in the city. At the same time, he discovered the ruthless talent that has our human potential. This has an immediate positive impact, since trusting and investing in our homeland colossians of this velvet is the best advertising for Greece and the best way of attracting other investment. To sum up, the effort and the struggle that we have before us must be lasting and the path towards the future wise and sustainable. The future is not only in 2021, but in the years to come and we must build them with care, patience and perseverance, with determination and boldness, with wisdom and realism. The difficult path of responsibility we've been taking since 7 July 2019 requires it. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Bukkokouros from New Democracy has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, following the 2009 fiscal crisis and its impact on the global economy, the crisis created by COVID -19, the koronovirus pandemic, is the second large station that gives its print to the global economy. Of course, the Greek economy comes into this battle with a disadvantage that we must highlight, because it is quite important. The previous crisis lasted much longer in Greece and made the Greek economy much more difficult and therefore the Greek society than the other European countries. We have been late to get out of the crisis on substance and in real sizes, and we have come, anyway, to see the issue, in this second critical battle, weakened. That's the one that shouldn't miss us. The second is that we cannot compare unparalleled things. We cannot compare normal times of economy, whatever problems and in the context of any crisis, in relation to the progress of the economy within the climate of the unfavourable developments that this global pandemic has brought. In no case could the Greek economy be an exception for the reasons I have just mentioned, but also for another number of reasons. What did the European Union and the Greek Government do in this context in the face of this pandemic? The governments of the States of the Union reacted in coordination with financial dynamism. One could say that there have been delays, consultations and negotiations, which have only been concluded in the past few days, but the essence is that the amount, namely the 'pistol', weighs EUR 750 billion. What does Greece get from this total amount? It takes 19.3% as non-refundable aid and 12.5 billion euros, which will come from favourable lending. We're talking about 31.8 billion euros. In other words, 32 million euros wholesalely come to complete the'military warehouse' in front of the economic war we will have, anyway, after the end of the pandemic. Of course, we are all trying and wishing for all of us to get out of this pandemic as soon as possible, because the longer we get out of the pandemic's consequences, we will have the same phenomena and the same consequences as the slowness that we experienced when we got out of the previous financial crisis. Consequently, the objective is the rapid exit. That is why the restrictions remain in this second pandemic wave. A critic can no doubt do in every direction and especially in the government that governs the place. But one tactic that in the first wave everything was perfect and in the second wave nothing works properly, I do not know how convincing it can be because, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the management will be seen at the end of the pandemic and in total. Then we will see what Greece has done, what other countries have done, and what results the government's policy has brought to Greece, and what results we have had in other countries. I think that then we will have a fair comparison. However, in the context which I have described, the need budget that we are voting on today, but also the reinvigoration of hope, I would say, has some very positive elements. No new charges shall be included in the budget. Not only, but as many reductions have been introduced to date, either tax or insurance, and the planned reductions from a society and from professional ranks that had been overtaxed in previous years are not being suspended. For example, I mention 3% reduction in insurance contributions that are breathtaking for businesses and small, but visible, reduction in workers' wages. The second thing one could say is the temporary reduction in the private-sector Solidarity Contribution, which we all hope will lead to the permanent abolition of the Solidarity Contribution. The amount is EUR 767 million. The third thing one can say and note is that all these measures, if you like, are strengthening, together with the measure of overdepreciation - which is also a measure of substantial relief - business and the investment environment. We will not see that, of course, now, at the top of the pandemic, but we will see it immediately afterwards. Tax revenues are budgeted at 47.8%, of course reduced as compared to 2020 and compared to 2019. However, the budget will be charged by 10 billion in relation to the budgeted expenditure and by 11.2 billion euros in relation to the budgeted expenditure in 2019. Where are this money going, a total of almost 32 billion euros? Transfers and grants EUR 32 billion and EUR 13.5 million in employee payments. Because the state has come to bear the burdens, because the first law on the explosion of this pandemic that this government has voted for was the ban on redundancies, because today the workers are getting a serious aid from the Greek Government. There are also branches that might have been strengthened further, but of course, it is a struggle taken in the context of the pandemic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be a minute, Madam President. At present, we are borrowing cheaply, because international markets trust us. You saw the evaluation of MODY'S. The European institutions trust the merits of the Greek economy and the very course of the Greek economy. We have come to talk about interest rates ten years, which are currently negotiating at 0.7%. Consider having the interest rates that the country enjoyed two years ago, what could we borrow and what the long-term consequences on the economy would be. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that immediately after the pandemic, the strengthening of pro-investment policy, which is a project for the government, the further reduction of the burdens of workers and businesses, the creation of new jobs, the added value of the Pissaridis report in the Greek economy and to the extent that this will be applied, together with the continuation of confidence in the strategic sectors of the economy, are those conditions which will lead us to a definitive exit from the crisis and this exit we owe to the new generation of Greece. I would urge you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Comrade, thank you. Mrs Vaguea has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start out of text, with a comment on the last words of the colleague who spoke before. You told us that we were lending at unprecedented low interest rates. You have to say at some point that we owe SYRIZA, in any case, for leaving this famous pillow, which, at some point, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Scully - I may be wrong - said in a speech that we did so to be credible. That's why we raised that money. I don't know if I'm wrong, but that's what happened at some point, say that. It was not necessary to create the coronary to understand depreciation and devaluation towards culture. This diagnosis, unfortunately, is lasting. I have been in the common, in the public life of the country, about forty-five years in the area of culture, that is, since 1975, when we created the Thessaic Theatre in Larissa and thus marked cultural decentralisation. During these years I have met and met most of the Ministers for Culture. I can assure you that most of them, with the exception of very few exceptions, were inferior to the circumstances. They were people who had nothing to do with culture, who entered this position to pave the parties' internal balance. Whoever we didn't have in which ministry to put him, we put him in the Ministry of Culture. The same has always been true of budgets. Otherwise, in the speeches here, in the House, culture is our flagship and other great and terrible words! I would like in this budget, in 2021, a priority for health and social welfare expenditure first, then for education and then for culture. I know I'm in danger of being accused of not taking the money for equipment as a priority. Yes, I do not think so, because it is money that is being given after a terrible blackmail for our national sovereignty, for the sovereignty of our country, involving us in endless equipment, in endless armaments, dictated by them - within introductory terms by our word - 'allies'. "If you have such friends, what do you want them with the enemies?" our people say. So dictated by allies, according to the kind of martial industry of everyone. In simple terms, in order to understand us and the people who are listening to us, we are told: We are not going to impose sanctions on Turkey, we are not going to stop its provocative policy in the Aegean unless you buy all the used planes we have and some freshmen from what we have from us. This proved to be a step forward at the last summit of the European Union. Full failure of the Greek Government and Prime Minister personally, national humiliation. Meanwhile, with the 2021 budget, in the middle of a pandemic, health expenditure is provokingly being reduced. And only for this criminal activity must you, gentlemen of the government, apologise not to us, but to the relatives of these people who have lost their lives in horrendous conditions, plunged hand in hospital corridors and probably some of them have done better if they were hospitalized in better conditions. We ask you: What have you done all these nine months since the pandemic began and with surely the second wave that was coming? Did you do anything more than admire yourself? What have you done to strengthen the public health system and, of course, the two public hospitals in my country, Larissa? Did you do anything other than rest on your laurels and live moments of misery? The reality is tough and he tells you you didn't do anything at all. That is why you must apologise not to me and to us, but to the wife of the forty-year-old mother-in-law Nektarios Halvatzis, who lost the battle with the coronary and who, according to the President of the Larissa Medical Association Mr. Konstantinos Giannakopoulou - his words are - "the health sector is currently measuring significant losses, while at the same time increasing the responsibility of the State for strengthening it at all levels, recruitment of permanent staff, materials, modern equipment, organisation, PVC, real estate upgrade etc.". How's all this going to happen? By reducing the health budget? To apologise, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to the agony of his relatives twenty - four - year - old, who, as the professor of Pneumonology and the Director of the Pneumonological Clinic of the University of Thessaly, has unfortunately had to be intubated. We kept him enclosed in a simple clinic, because the closest ITH that was free was in Iannina. Larissa was in Jannah, that's where that man should go. Think of the anguish of his own people. And then you tell us there were too many of the ITH beds and they're too much. Of course, as Mr Gerapitris said, “What do we need the ICUs? After all, most patients die in them." What to die in an ICU, what to die in the hallway of a public hospital, so does it. That's your logic, that's the logic of your neoliberal head for the National Health System. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, I shall end, Madam President. So this budget of 2021, which you brought us to the House, is the mirror of your philosophy. It is the 'death of the merchant', the death of the man asking for assistance from the National Health System, the death of workers with unpaid overtime. We are giving you this budget. In closing, I would like to wish everyone a good holiday and a good new year, but in order to do so, we need vigilance and struggle from all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Castanides now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a budget whose data and all forecasts will be revised. And that's because the season itself bears high loads of uncertainty. For the same reason, at least three times, the government's 2020 forecasts have been revised. For this reason, let me tell you that I will not deal technically with a budget that will be subject to new revisions, but I will try to introduce to our debate for the first time, for the first time, a number of issues that have begun to be debated in Europe and, curiously, they are not discussed at all within the country, in the domestic public debate, and they should be one of the key issues to which public debate and political parties should be addressed. What are the forecasts for the government, in line with what is stated in the draft budget for 2020? The recession will move at minus 10.5%, private consumption will be limited by 7.6% and gross fixed capital formation will be reduced by 14.6%. The deficit, at nominal prices, for 2020 will amount to less than EUR 16.5 billion and the debt as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product will move to around 209%. I would remind you that we have found ourselves in the need to use the international support mechanism when public debt was delivered at the end of 2009 to an amount of 128% of GDP. How did we get to these negative performances? We arrived when last March, rightly in March, the European institutions decided to activate the clause of escape from the strict financial rules which the Stability and Growth Pact, the German inspiration, has established for many years. A margin of relative fiscal slackness had to be given to the countries - members of the euro area and, more generally, the European Union - in order to address the increased health needs of the states, in the midst of a crisis, and also to address the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. So we have reached these negative budgetary figures, which, on the basis of government's assumption, appear in the rapporteur's report on the budget under discussion. Despite budgetary slackness and the possibility of increased government spending, the government has not succeeded - if I have time I will give one or two examples - despite the valuable effort being made by the government's information mechanisms to show the exact opposite. But my gut's not on it. My emphasis is on the challenges that come, on the storms that we are facing, and, I repeat, they are not being discussed, curiously how, in the internal public debate. The escape clause applies, with a new decision of the European institutions, until the end of 2021. Will we come back from the beginning of 2022 to the well-known strict rules of budgetary stability, as provided for in the Stability and Growth Pact? This is a position which is supported by several countries of the European Union, the leader of Germany. But if we go back to the same economic governance rules, to the same rules of strict budgetary discipline, even if they improve because the government's budgetary data for 2021, what I described to you, the country will be facing the catastrophic risk, given, I repeat, budgetary stability and discipline, to pursue the same policies that have been pursued over the past decade as rescue policies. It will have exceptional difficulties in improving its budgetary size and in attempting economic recovery. That is why the European Financial Council, which is independent, but which is the official consultant of the European Commission, claims in its annual report that we cannot go back to the financial stability rules that we have known so far. It claims that the rules on economic governance must be changed in the euro area, otherwise neither the public debt nor the recovery - as a whole - can be served in the euro area and in the European Union. And in order to strengthen its arguments the European Financial Council notes that already the average public debt of the euro area countries has exceeded 100% of the gross domestic product corresponding to the euro area. So the question arises: how will we return, how will this public debt be served, how will there be an economic recovery? The European Financial Council therefore proposes a number of measures - I must say to you - centralist or post-Keyinian inspiration, while it is not a progressive instrument at all, but rather a conservative instrument, and it claims that policies such as a permanent financial fund, follow-up to the Recovery Fund, whose term of office will end, as you know, at the end of 2026, and also proposes providing strong incentives to implement programmes of brave public investment. Watch out, you brave public investment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Madam President. He's not talking about private investment, he's talking about public investment. In this debate countries such as ours, which is already from a ten-year dreadful fiscal crisis, had to be the headlines for 2020, and the domestic elite policy had to be armed with national positions to discuss proposals similar to the European Financial Council's proposals, to have a specific negotiating strategy. Instead, we are talking about micro-policy on a personal level. Our duty, the Change Movement, of the Central Left is to point to the fundamentals. And to point out one more thing: Two global crises, the 2007-2008 financial crisis and the health crisis that we are now experiencing have shown the limits of neoliberal ideas with this annoying obsession on the self-regulation markets, which of course have not been able to do anything about the one or the other crisis. They have all appealed to the strong and effective state that should intervene in order to provide a solution to the economic deadlock in which the planet has been or has been in the past. And that makes social and democratic ideas more timely, ladies and gentlemen, because public investment policies, policies to strengthen an effective state, policies to strengthen the welfare state cannot, in history and in historical memory, implement conservative governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u192	Please, for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u193	I intervene because the speech by Mr Kastanidis was not the usual speech of the Opposition. He expressed genuine concerns about what is going to happen in the future and it is a useful opportunity to have a creative dialogue here. When to come back and where to come back, we don't know it yet. It is a function of power correlations in Europe's political systems, which because it operates on the basis of compromise and unanimity in too many things, particularly in terms of changes in conditions, if there is no acute crisis change very difficult. We have lived through a 'Hamilton stigma' in my view, that is to say, a moment of federation with the Recovery Fund, but it will not be easy to make progress the next day to make this federation permanent. As far as public investment is concerned, Mr Kastanides, you need to know - and you know it - that Greece has, as far as private investment is concerned, a huge disinvestment since 2011. We need to be very careful because investments, public or private, pay back when they move in balance, that is, there is a sufficient share of public investment and a sufficient share of private investment. In the Recovery Fund this will be our aim, to have a balance between public and private investment, so that both of us can return. When we leave the policy of measure taught us by our ancients, we lose. That is what I wanted to say and thank you for the opportunity you gave me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u195	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u196	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Minister, for feeling the need to say a few words, I believe, for the public debate. You will allow me to make one comment. By accepting the fact that, as a means for the recovery of the euro area, strong public investment is certainly proposed and we should not underestimate the need for private investment. But there are moments that are not equitable. For example, a man who belongs to the area of liberal or neoliberal ideology, Fukuyama, as far as his book on the establishment of the powerful states is concerned - you will know, I am sure you will have read it - defends that at certain border points, as happened in several Far East countries - it includes Japan there - a framework of incentives is needed, what the European Financial Council says, to strengthen and implement brave public investment programmes. Hence the idea of the financial fund as a permanent mechanism, but essentially the federalization of the European Union. What is important, therefore, is to rethink ideas on which we need to prepare ourselves internally. I'm afraid that's not happening. There are very few issues on the public agenda. I call on the whole of the political world to be ready with a specific and structured national strategy, because that is what we will find in front of us. The debate on which rules will go in 2022 and then it will be a debate that will take place before the end of the pandemic. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus, has asked for the floor. Colleague, just a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u199	I want a minute, on the occasion of Mr. Skulakis' answer. Mr Mitsotakis, you are obviously aware that some time ago you have actually led to the collapse of this entire account of artificial euphoria which Mr Mitsotakis himself first and best, but also the ministers of the financial staff emanate all this time and much more within the budget session. In fact, you have rightly left the possibility of going to a memorandum on three occasions since the beginning of 2022. To speak with just Greek. Since that is your opinion, you did well to speak honestly. And the question in this case, Mr Skourletis, is how you prepare the country, how you prepare the international alliances, how you respond to what Mr Skourletis said yesterday - and avoid answering - how you stand against Italy's proposal, so that we can go from now to the creation of correlations in a direction that will not lead us again to a great defeat like the one we lived in Greek. Because if we take literally what you said today and see the total move made by the government, you take us back to a great vaterlo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u200	Minister, you have the floor for a minute to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u201	You're right, but I can't leave it unanswered. If you were careful about what I said yesterday, you would hear that I said that SYRIZA proposed that we spend four to five times over the average of the budget expenditure that the other European countries have done, despite the fact that we are the country with the greatest debt, but that is with some good time in the future. As far as what happens after 2022 is concerned, the country has guaranteed a very large amount, if you read MODY'S today, which is ready to upgrade us on condition that it is properly spent. Therefore, those who are really interested in how the budgets will go - they have no party motives for them - anticipate a better course of the country. Its "MODY'S" work is trying to do it. And they have no particular reason to predict whether we will go better or worse. So, be sure that if we continue, as this government continues, we will not have such developments, but we need wisdom and soundness - I say it again - to get to the end of this pandemic smoothly. It's not easy at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u203	No, Mr. Comrade. The list should continue. Mr Koutsoubas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, by fulfilling a political, constitutional and parliamentary obligation, presents today and analyses before Parliament, but also Greek society, the government policy that will pursue and follow for next year, presenting priorities and prioritising their problems and solutions. The budget, which we are discussing every year at this time, is a leading political act and a parliamentary procedure and clearly has an ideological political orientation. It captures the government's collective effort with social and economic initiatives to address the problems caused by the crisis, but also confirms our political will to prepare the country in the post-COVID era. In the course of the past, an eight months from taking over the country's governance, an eight-month creation and reforms, we have implemented our election commitments and, most importantly, we have gained credibility abroad and trust internally. The immediate past we have lived and lived leads us to the following conclusions, which must be directed towards the next political moves that fully meet the needs and wishes of the Greek society: security, the armoring of the country abroad and within, the instability of the feeling of security for Greek citizens, strengthening the social state and planning, interventions for the development of the country, with better use of resources and more effective governance. That's the government's bet, and that's what he needs to focus on. The problems that have arisen at national and health level have been resolved wisely, and we need to continue in the future to reduce the negative effects of the crisis. I would point out that the government, in compliance with its election commitments, had made immediate, timely, early implementation with necessary legislative intervention at all levels. The March crisis, of course, brought about changes in the designs and objectives for the response of emergencies. The Government has taken measures to protect Greek society in terms of health care, but also at economic and social level, through interventions to protect businesses and workers. It did not follow the logic that the opposition had originally adopted, the'money there' and the logic of 'given it all'. We did, did a prudent management and proved to be salvages after the crisis continues today. I would like to point out the basic elements of the budget that I think the Greek should keep beyond the controversy and designations given. It is legitimate that the opposition should criticise, want to control and criticise - it exercises a fundamental right - but the government is not listening to them, such as 'hazardous, who will lead the country to bankruptcy', and so I think no one is listening to them, which is not monitored by the Greek society. I will focus on two elements that I have heard from the main ministers presenting, unfolding the government's programme for next year. Firstly, no tax in the new year, no reduction in pensions and, of course, constant social assistance in the public classes. Return of dues, contributions payments, support measures, such as those announced in due course by the Minister of Finance and assigning, in relation to the repayable advance in each county, what has taken each county and what has benefited. Who are they giving us the answer as to whether the government is following the right policy in this area? The economy rating agencies, our partners, investors, the market and finally, the Greek society, which continues to trust New Democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have done a great deal. However, we still have a great deal to do for Greek society and important steps still to be taken in many areas. In the four years that we have been through until we have overcome the crisis, we will continue to support businesses and workers as far as possible, with strategic planning. The government has an obligation and responsibility to society, to the Greeks who continue to trust it, to proceed quickly and decisively by adopting and hierarchizing needs of the economy and the province. And here I am doing a parentheses. We had discussed the whole of the previous period with the relevant ministers and the Prime Minister and the relevant Minister for Rural Development agreed that a rural overall planning should be carried out in Greece, with infrastructure. And in this design should not be left outside the Kopaida, which includes two counties, Boeotia and Phthiotida. Ladies and gentlemen, I recently see, in this entire parliamentary term, a political nervousness on your part, hypocrisy and populism, obscene acts and an underlying anti-parliamentary behaviour. The lack of political arguments to compare the work of the government leads you to political mistakes and slips. Unfortunately, for you, society is not following you and that brings you this political irritation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward without ideals. We don't have any more political time. We need a new political culture. People'sism and hypocrisy have no place in the political system. They are the ones that delay reforms, progress, resolution of problems. Let's focus on the big ones. That is what society, the new generation, needs to deliver the country's governance free of these diseases of the political system. This budget, in hierarchy of the problems of Greek society, wants to have a good function of the state, gives solutions and I think it should be trusted by the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chryssohoidis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 was not a normal year. First Evros, after the pandemic, the burning of Moria, the second wave of pandemic, all of this in seven to eight months. The Greek police were found on the Flevaris border, they went out on the streets in March and they're still there today, they're on the streets. I give you two numbers: one million three hundred and eighty-two thousand checks, people controlled, and ninety-seven thousand vehicles were checked in November throughout Greece, more than 10% of the population and almost 20% of the vehicles. The numbers of the police work are huge and the effort of the police is huge. But crisis is not an alibi to the police, even if it is a pandemic. The emergency is not a pretext for us, for the Ministry of Civil Protection, because from his mission it is the Ministry of Crisis Management. That is why the Police, the Fire Corps, most recently the ultimate addition of civil protection, must be the operational pillars of crisis management. Today, here in Parliament, in the top process, in government accounting, we are taking stock of the work, of our actions for 2020. We planned last December in here and announced it without a pandemic. In our account today, we told you that we implemented all 100%, with pandemic, despite the pandemic. I am tabling the document on the subject of my speech, which I tabled at the time, and all related to the 2020 programming project, work on work, action. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I summarise the report: The police have been present all over the public space, every city, every neighborhood. Abatas of all kinds disappeared. It is performed normally, regardless of pandemic, the plan of mild policing by pedestrians and on-board patrols. Cities are scanned, drug coils are dissolved, trade violations, crime, thefts and so on. Police are responding to a request for transparency in the limitation of arbitrary incidents, control and accountability mechanisms. Police work is published, disciplinary law has changed. The Citizens' Counselor now has responsibilities and staff in order to carry out his duties in disciplinary proceedings in cases of police violence against police officers. The cameras at the operational units already started to work. Police specialize and organize: from sporting violence to violence against minors, domestic violence. All departments and addresses have been staffed, acquired instruments and possibilities for prevention and planning. The police are armed. The working conditions of the staff are considerably upgraded. Cars, engines, bulletproof vests, thermal cameras, drones, communications. Here, in this Chamber, the right of assembly, assembly, and law is applied. And as far as we have been able to see from the short time, but also the extraordinary measures due to pandemic, the law works, the law applies and applies. Borders in Evros are guarded. The fence's already built, and in a few months it'll be ready. Political protection has ceased to be an empty letter. Finally, we have acquired a national system of protection, with functions, interfaces, rules of involvement, which makes us a good system for dealing with crises and disasters in the 21st century. And finally, we finally have detention stores. The recent law also covered the vast administrative gap in their management. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have implemented what we have planned. The objectives, however, remain. We are preparing for the vaccination period and for the period without pandemic. It is not clear either that the time of the transition or changes in behaviour is not clear. But whatever happens, the police need radical areas, because the demand for security is widened and transformed. It is now a universal and multidimensional request. We are putting the burden on prevention, because only the organisation - crime prevention can lead to what we call resilience. So more security, less violence, finally better living conditions. Prevention is organised in four axes. The first line, it's about what the police want. Three fundamental texts are produced so that they can be publicly binding on the pillars of police action. In a few weeks' time, the new operational doctrine for the management of meetings will be published. The country's White Paper on internal security will be followed by a public version of the anti-crime policy. Finally, the process of producing the new doctrine for the country's internal security will be completed by June 2021, i.e. the basic text of the Greek State on the security of society and of citizens. Secondly, it concerns education, administration and staff. A triple plan is under way. Education will change by law in the first quarter. It will be followed by the reorganisation of the structure of the police headquarters, i.e. the executive structure of the police top. And finally, as a result comes the change in the management of people, the staff of the Greek Police. Thirdly, it concerns communication, cooperation and transparency which leads to prevention, because legality is given legality and produces cooperation. As a consequence, the police will acquire extroverts, publicity and forms of accountability. This is why 2021 plans to study and change the symbols, methods and procedures for police communication. Fourthly, it concerns operational philosophy. Development and specialization in the softest policing is the future of the city's protection. After the group "WHO" comes the group for universities which are due to begin shortly before the second half of 2021. And if pandemic allows us, it follows the radical development of methods of cooperation with the municipalities, which is of course going very well, but it is very pilot. I am tabling the relevant documents with a timetable and, in many cases, an indicative cost. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have acquired a detention shop management system, which is now in prison. With the organisation of the General Secretariat, we now have the possibility of active staffing. Apart from the transfer of Korydalos, another band is scheduled, but also changes in the existing ones. In the last quarter of 2021 the Penitentiary Code will be changed. There they will, in fact, change all our penitentiary system needs. That is where social work will take place. We are ambitious by the potential of technology to increase opportunities and alternative ways of reintegration, which, unfortunately, is limited to a single and very anachronistic system - good, but anachronistic - which is rural prisons. The same applies to staff training structures. Our strategic goal remains for prisoners to be deprived of their freedom and nothing else. I am tabling the aims of the anti-criminal policy which I described very clearly for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Political Protection is the guardian of collective human life and property. It's becoming more and more important, more necessary, because it was neglected and anachronistic. I do not want to go into the debate again on issues that have been discussed many times here and outside, about natural disasters in our country. The reorganisation includes legislative initiatives, operational reconstructions and modernisations with top-level initiative and priority at the moment the spread of civil protection in the region. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 our lives will be changed again. We hope the pandemic nightmare will end as soon as possible. We hope, but at the same time we're getting ready, because it's going to be a new era in a short time. We're trying to learn from what's going on and take advantage of what's changing, because I'm saying it again, it's going to be a new era. The design I presented to you in the police, in prisons, in Civil Protection, aspires to have a very heavy institutional footprint. Because democracy has to last. In order to withstand the sense of security that is now threatened sanitaryly to strengthen and ensure. The authoritarianism is caradic in the inability of democracy to ensure protection and security. So I urge you all to leave the shadows of the outdated dilemmas, the discomforts of the slogans they do not have tomorrow. Here will not be the "Cololon and Exarchia", i.e. the microcosm of our prolonged post-cultural space, but humanity as a whole in new geopolitical connections, opportunities and competition. A pandemic changed the memos in Europe. Are we going to stay here to mention them, or are we going to make use of them, and take our share in the new era? This is the dilemma today, i.e. the line that divides it in front of the back. Our job at the Ministry of Civil Protection is to take part in the change, ensuring the protection and protection of citizens' safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u209	Is that going to happen all the time, Mr President? It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u210	Wait a minute. I see the programme that has been drawn up. Mr. Spirtzis will now speak, then Mrs. Bakoyannis. They will speak four Members and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u212	Please! What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u213	Parliamentary representatives cannot speak every time ministers speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u214	Please. Why are you interrupting and interfering now? There are parliamentary representatives who can say whether they have a point of order, etc. This doesn't have to be all right now. The schedule's fine. Your colleagues in the last few days kept working hours as a rule and we are on a very good path. Tomorrow there'll be comfort and maybe we'll get it over with faster. Please. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor. Mrs. Bakoyannis will be followed, and then there's Mr. Gokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I did not mean to start with my speech on the budget, but by listening to the ministers of government, unfortunately, we all find that they are far too far away from reality. I have heard Mr Kumucako earlier who told us that the government's aim is not to flogg Turkey. Don't flogg her any more. Don't bite her so much! Do not isolate Turkey so much. For God's sake! Of course, I have heard Mr. Dogskys who, when he hears the word 'public', creeps out. Mr Kastanides said about the Public Investment Programme, about the approvals and that he helped the country overcome the crisis and got up to answer. But that's not dogmatism from this side of the hill! It is the way the capitals of capitalism, America, Europe, all have historically faced the crises. For God's sake! I heard the Citizen's Minister a few minutes ago, and I want to say a few things, because I'm a partner. Minister, the Civil Protection Act, passed by you, has been suspended since March. Not applicable. Why are you telling us this here? Also, some questions come in. Wasn't Evros guarded before New Democracy? What are you talking about? I would like to say a few things about the way - and the Minister for Finance is not here, too, a pity that is not Mr Skakakis to explain to us - that you understand a few things. And I won't plunder. I do not want to say what the whole Greek society says in its discussions about what we are doing with Mr Papapas and the extreme right in our country, as you have committed yourself. But I want to ask. For many years the Ministry of Finance has forced all ministries to have a structure in the financial services. Here we have a ministry within the Ministry with Mrs Nicholas with the previous law. We're asking why. You can answer us, too, and the Treasury will answer us. We want to thank you for that, because the general secretariat responsible for penal policy must go to the Ministry of Justice and go very soon. With what you've done, it'll go a lot easier. But why do you have a ministry inside the ministry? Why is there no authorizing officer of the Ministry, a technical service, a staff address, an economic service, a digital policy service? Why? Is Mrs. Nicholas another vilae? I would say that in my position, not only for Mrs Nicholas, but also in general. You're too good at direct assignments. For Mrs Nicholas and the General Secretariat, they have been debated a lot, they are not the only ones because we are talking about civil protection. So I present to you, L.4753/2020-, 18 November 2020 - to see how the New Democracy treats natural disasters. Title ‘Appropriate measures for the implementation of this Regulation...’. [[At this point the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And the Ministry of Infrastructure comes from the complete circumvention of European public procurement legislation. The complete circumvention! One to go and file a complaint - one to go! - The country's gonna pay for it. The following day, Minister Karamanlis came out, following a decision by the Committee on Large Projects, and said 150 million will be spent on the damage of 'Janu'. How are you gonna do that? With a direct assignment? In this context? No physical object, no studies, no quantities, nothing? What are you going to do with the discounts? We are at your disposal, despite the fact that, Minister, we have a different belief about how you are dealing with the penitentiary system - this has emerged in the previous draft law - but also modern issues, such as violence from wherever it comes. We have a completely different attitude on this issue. One of the ways and can be addressed is education in police schools. And there we are at your disposal to bring in with our proposals, not just six months ago, as you anticipated, with what you have announced with the bill, so that there really is a normal academic superiority of these schools and not for the sight. We're afraid of what you said you'd bring, the changes to the Penitentiary Code, the changes that you've planned in the previous draft law. We're scared! Why do you not listen to neither society nor those who are concerned, nor, unfortunately, the bodies, namely the Citizens' Counselor, the lawyers, the international union on human rights? Nothing! We are afraid of this, as the Greek people are afraid together - and today you are so proud of it, and I did not expect the New Democracy to be proud of it - because you have limited the right to assemble. That's an occupation. I don't want to comment on it. Let New Democracy think about it on its own. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have not yet said anything about the budget, Mr President. What can we do? Now I would like to say a few things about the budget for the Ministry of Civil Protection, as much more I would like to say about the pandemic, etc., but I do not have time for my position on the positions of the Ministers. So, like all the ministries, the cost of payroll was increased. 2019 was EUR 2,721,000, this year is EUR 8,044,000. Final state, otherwise. Secondly, I mentioned you for the authorising officers. It is tragic that this is happening and we are waiting for a response from the Ministry of Finance. The third thing we would like to see, Minister, is a clarification: while EUR 7 million has been increased the ordinary budget of the General Secretary of Criminal Policy, and the regular budget of the General Secretariat for Public Order has been reduced by EUR 75 million, you have reduced the benefits of the workers by EUR 25,981,000. I ask what that means to police officers, to workers at the General Secretariat of Public Orders. Because if it is what we heard before the Minister of Health, which confirmed that it is a fake, virtual, provocative and anti-developmental budget and that, for health at least, more money will be needed - the Minister himself said so, Mr Kikilias - that proves that you are moving back into his logic of'seeing and doing', making fun of Parliament with the budget you have tabled, but above all the world, trading hope in everything! All of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u216	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u217	To conclude, Mr President, although I have not said my position at all. I will testify to it in the Minutes, but what is being heard in this House is terrible. In closing, you are talking about returning to normality, when you know that our world will never be the same after the pandemic, and when you know that everything that you change today either concerns the health crisis, the economy and the accumulation of branches in a few, either the social state and the industrial relations, either the individual rights or the democratic rights and doctrine of your "law and order", is not a return to normality - nor your normality! - but it's on the return of a wild, barbaric, inhumane society of great inequality. We are not going to serve this either at institutional or at development level, in the development model you want to promote. We believe in changing the country's development model, in having a productive structure. I appreciate and hope - if you wish - that your particular failure - to date, unfortunately - to the health crisis, which is also irreparable, is not followed by your failure, which will be irreparable to both the economy and national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u218	Please, Mr Colleague, you've been in ten minutes. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u219	You're right, Mr. President. And I wish that in 2021 it will be the year that will be reassured and uneasy for the Greek people to overthrow your policy and not to be incompetent and reassured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u220	Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for the budget debate to be the most important debate of the year in question every year, the debate that marks expectations and efforts which our country will have to do with the new year. We are leaving behind a very difficult year and the word 'hard' may not be enough to describe it, a year of global and regional crises, in which our country, like all other countries, has been tested very hard. However, by making the balance sheet, ladies and gentlemen, and by hand to the heart, we have to agree that Greece has endured. Faced with these difficult - sometimes impossible - conditions have emerged thanks to the government's policy of allowing our country to stand up and stand up in the health sector. With criticism, with great difficulty, the health system has endured. With a very large struggle the economy, with huge problems, has been kept up with huge issues today that it is facing. However, jobs that would be lost have been kept and there is a hope that businesses will come out of this great crisis at least fundamentally - if not all of them, but most - and they will be able to get into 2021 engraved, but at least they can claim a better tomorrow. Within this global economic depression Greece has managed to attract investment, an extremely difficult issue. You know very well that there are few investments made during the pandemic or that have even been announced in any European country. The government's 2020 reform targets were not only abandoned, but instead evaluated against the new unexpected data, were hierarchised and implemented. The Greek Parliament - and I would like to say this, and I think we should all be proud - in relation to other parliaments during the pandemic, has remained open, it has worked, even lame, as we have been doing all this time. But it worked. And so, a lot of legislation went through for the environment, green development, digital state, health, spatial planning, investment, so that we can lay solid foundations for tomorrow. The next day, ladies and gentlemen, he's here. Will it be easy? No, ladies and gentlemen, it will be very difficult. I don't know why you counterpopulation are urging about the difficulties we're having. You're wrong, because these difficulties are going to go together. There is no country in the world, ladies and gentlemen - and some of you have a continuous opportunity to keep up to date with the international press - not to deal with all these issues that we are discussing today and not to be afraid of how the economies will come out of this recession. But they will come to an end, and Greece will succeed. The next day is here, of course, because of the vaccine. Greece belongs to the privileged countries, to those countries where its people, every Greek and every Greek woman will be able to be vaccinated - God first! - until summer with this vaccine. We all aim to persuade them to be vaccinated as soon as possible, because we have been able, because we are a European country, because the economy has allowed us to be able to inoculate the whole of the people. But here, we also have a great challenge in front of us as the Hellenic Republic. The Hellenic Republic, the country that invented democracy, must lead these vaccines internationally to go to the third world too, to those countries which do not have the opportunity of the Greek economy and the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the pressure on pharmaceutical companies, large pharmaceutical companies, from the whole of Europe's political world must be absolute. We can pay. Those who can't get the patent for those vaccines. We have a duty to do it and we have to as Greece to stand up. The right to life is not only a right to the rich peoples. It is also a right for the poor and for them, especially the third world, which we are talking about today in our so-called 'cultural' countries. Finally, 2021 is indeed a national time for the relaunching of Greece and the budget is realistic and you know it. Can he be absolute? No, it's not, ladies and gentlemen. There will be adjustments. You, Mr. Chakaloto, know it better than anyone else. There'll be emergency, there'll be difficulties. Is the money coming for everything? No, they won't. But that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, we should be hierarchy, keep loose ends both in 2022 and in 2023, so that we can meet all the needs we have to meet. There is a great breath of EUR 72 billion - a great breath! - and hugely the challenge ahead of us to manage them properly, so that we cannot lose 1 euro and have a multiplier effect for the Greek economy. Finally, Mr President, let me turn to foreign policy issues in two words. I have heard before the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman speak of the tragedy, the despair that exists following the latest conclusions of the European Council. Ladies and gentlemen, denial of reality is always the worst foreign policy adviser. Others too are, but particularly in foreign policy, it is deadly. You are talking as if you did not know what European reality is. From parties that have never exercised power it is a little - very reasonable. But by parties that exercised power? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Didn't you know, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on with the veto threat? It is a threat, because in the end a'sycholic sheet' was taken by Hungary and Poland. But was there a threat until the last day for that money? Did you not know what is happening with 'BREXIT', which, even today, is at risk for the English and us Europeans to pay for the populist policy and the narrow-minded policy of a decision many years ago to get the English out of the European Union? Didn't you know what that means to energy? And finally, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly is it that we are pursuing in our relations with Turkey? I feel right now that I have to be very clear and very honest, because 2021 comes in and we all have a responsibility. What exactly do we pursue in our relationship with Turkey? Can we, ladies and gentlemen, change geography? Do we have the possibility of becoming Luxembourg? I have been saying all my life that I would not want anything more than to be Minister for Foreign Affairs in Luxembourg, to deal with the people of this world. With passion I would do it, so long as my people didn't suffer. But we're not. We are in Greece and geography is very specific. We are in one of the most difficult and flammable areas of the world. So what are we looking for? And since I have been seeing it all along recently - and I feel the need to tell the National Representation - a whole dictatorial ring which in one way or another is trying to argue that Greece either because Turkey has changed or because Turkey is Islamic - as if we have learned now - either because Turkey is a review - and this is what we have learned now - or because Mr Erdogan wants all of this - as if we have learned now - he wants to lead the country into the non-violent dialogue with Turkey, that is to say, does not allow exploratory contacts. I would therefore like to say clearly, ladies and gentlemen, to all those who, indirectly or directly, support this policy, that they should be prepared to come out and tell the Greek people what the next step would be from this. Very nice, very nice and selfish, perhaps for personal reasons each analyst, who allows himself to think of this kind, do his job well and display an increased sensitivity, which is always rewarded by the Greek people. But that is not a responsibility. We must start here and say clearly where we want to go. My view, therefore, is clearly that which Constantine Karamanlis had expressed from this very point of view Edrano a long time ago, that is, that Greece is being chosen with its neighbours, is being chosen in all circumstances, and the easy ones - which we unfortunately do not have - and the difficult ones. You're talking to the neighbors. Speaking doesn't mean changing your position does not mean surrendering, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that you speak in practice proves that you, that is, we believe in the power of our arguments. Well, Greece believes in the power of its arguments. Greece has the International Law on its side, Greece has, at the moment when we are talking about most alliances historically, Greece will come, whenever it comes, to the discussion of exploratory contacts on the continental shelf and maritime zones with confidence and confidence and will say - not as I say to you, because today I can say it more comfortable - in Turkey "Here is Rhodes, behold and jump. If you really believe in the power of your arguments, if you really believe that International Law is on your side, then we will go to The Hague and decide The Hague." This must be the central strategy and it will be a huge mistake, in my opinion, if, for reasons of political, party or other, this policy is undermined and Greece remains without answering the international scene. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing. 2021 is a great opportunity. It's a great opportunity to come in with confidence and confidence. We got her! And it is good for the parties to be able to come together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. Let us stay in the appeal for the help of the poor countries for the vaccine, which they will be unable to take, Mr Tsakaloto, because we must not forget that the snakes bite the ungrateful. Mr Christos Gokas has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2021 budget, and there are critical fronts, such as in our national issues with the failure, unfortunately, of the Government at the recent summit of the European Union, without a national line. He was wondering before what we are trying to do and did a serious analysis. But here we are, and have repeatedly proposed that we discuss it, that we have a dialogue at the level of the Heads of State or Government, that we agree, that we agree, that we have our national line. There is also the harsh reality that is reflected, of course, in the budget plans that we are discussing about the economy and the Greek society with the unprecedented health crisis of the korondovirus pandemic, which unfortunately costs dozens of lives every day. I come to the budget and prediction of a recession at 10.5% for 2020. We recognize the consequences of pandemic. But it's not the only reason. The government proceeds from the outset with its tactics "seeing and doing", without an integrated programme, despite knowing the consequences of the disastrous governance of SYRIZA in 2015-2019, which, with populism and demagogy, led to the third unjust and painful memorandum. However, the New Democracy itself has never recognised its own responsibilities for the financial derailment of the period 2004-2009. At the same time, complacency, complacency and inertia left the National Health System for the second wave of the coronary. The proposals of the Change Movement to strengthen the National Health System were ignored in infrastructure and staff. Unfortunately, the consequences on both health and the economy are painful. After three revisions, a recovery of 4.8% is foreseen for 2021. In an uncertain global environment and away from our reality, how will this be done without liquidity, without a comprehensive and reliable plan to exploit the resources expected from the Recovery Fund? Hundreds of thousands are enterprises, especially small and very small, and those who have not received, nor are they going to take, nor euros from any measure. The measures are for a few, as are your policies that are also based on 'European reforms'. Those on parole cannot meet their needs and many long-term unemployed remain without aid. The primary sector gets crumbs. The retail trade with the click away accepts a key blow. Many businesses, up to 50%, may not function again, while waiting for an increase in tax revenue of EUR 3.7 billion. From what income? And until where is the indirect tax relationship going, which is affecting the weak, reaching 1.5% now, compared with 1.15% of 2014? It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that your optimism is empty. The costs of the Public Investment Programme are again set at the levels of 2018, amounting to EUR 6,75 billion with 6 billion co-financed resources and EUR 750 million from national resources, and given the importance and multiplier benefits for the economy from increasing the Public Investment Programme, especially in times of crisis. The government's uncertain forecast of additional resources of EUR 2.6 billion from the Recovery Fund does not meet the needs of infrastructure support. The absorption of the NRP, despite pandemic disbursements, is just over 50%. Moreover, the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport amounts to EUR 1,885 billion in 2021, compared with EUR 1,347 billion in 2020. It remains below the 2019 budget, which was EUR 1.8 billion, while the increase for 2021 is minimal in relation to the major needs of the Ministry's Public Investment Program. The major projects are in the 'will'. The BOAK, not even the Patra - Tower axis, was launched. It is expected that the European Commission will adopt it as a single project, following the adventure of the eight SYRIZA contractors. The completion of the Ionian Road after Ioannina is five years, as is the northern part of the E65. The Ambros-Action axis is expected to begin - I wish! - after the signing of a contract on'multi-sweeping'. The contest for Egnatia is under way, a very important project for the country, but the House has not been informed. In rail infrastructure, both the extension of the network of the Peloponnese and the construction of the Athens-Thessaloniki network are delayed. In urban transport, both SYRIZA and New Democracy, with delays and insufficient measures, they have created the unacceptable state of conspiracy in public transport, which was the main outbreak of coronary overtransmission. We are calling for our proposals on public transport to be adopted and implemented, i.e. for the extension of the metro to Attica, while the choices made by the government for the Thessaloniki metro create a risk of delays, contrary to the government's optimism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with reference to my particular region, continent and Arta. We did not hear yesterday from the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport something about the Yannina-Cacavia section. Their degradation in a diverse cross-section means that the motorway stops in Yannina, contrary to its initial design and importance for local, regional and national development and contrary to the government's election promises. This section must be constructed as a normal motorway. Also, it is unjustifiable that the vertical axes for connecting the Preveza to the Ionian Road and the Egnatia Road, in particular the connection section to the Kallerou bridge and the Preveza. For Arta, a productive region, at this time, demand for products such as mandarins, olives, oranges is low and prices degrading. There is a need for serious support from producers, as is the case for livestock farming, livestock farming and aquaculture. Costs increase with the green oil ending, but also with increases in animal feed. The primary sector needs support if we really mean that it is a pillar for the country's productive reconstruction. It also does not go beyond the "Agro-food Park" - we take no response from the relevant - or the development of the new university department of food and food sciences in Arta, as well as the new departments in Igoumenitsa and Igoumenitsa. Finally, is there regional planning for resources from EUR 73 billion over the period 2021-2027, especially from EUR 32.5 billion of the Recovery Fund for productive and development projects, such as the fields of the Arta area? Last financing of major projects in Arta we had in 2014. There is the completion of the irrigation Peta - Koboti, the development of Ambros, the anti-military protection of Arta, the development of the geothermal field of Arta, modernization and new infrastructure in the health sector. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down, we want sustainable development that also responds to the problem of social inequalities. We support the world of production, the right to work with dignity for all. Your budget does not respond to this. Hypersensitivity lies in the gap and the communication approach of the hard and difficult reality is not a solution, but a problem for the country and the Greek society. That is why we are voting against this budget, except for the defensive costs that you have at last seen your mistake last year and that you are going to increase them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u224	Thank you too, Mr. Goka. Mr Takis Theodorikos is called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u225	My turn is now, Mr President. Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u226	But I thought you'd changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u227	The right of Members to speak is being destroyed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u228	I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade. The mistake is mine. I'm misunderstood. I had the impression you've changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, Members once have the privilege of speaking and that is what you are destroying. They can't keep answering the ministers. I've been waiting since morning to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u230	No, do not say that for the Bureau, neither for me nor for any colleague. No one does that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u231	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u232	The move you made gave me the impression that you changed, because otherwise it didn't make any sense to make a move like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u233	No, I didn't make any moves. I made a certain move...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u234	Good. I'm sorry. I'm misunderstood. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are discussing the state budget for 2021 in the middle of a pandemic and under very difficult conditions for both the world community and our homeland, which has, in addition to being hurt multiplely by the ten-year economic crisis and the robbery of the governments of the first time left. The New Democracy Government, in eighteen months' time of its election, has effectively faced the crisis of immigration, the extreme drama of our eastern borders, at least two natural disasters of extreme weather phenomena and the pandemic of COVID -19 with huge economic and social consequences. He made the protection of public health first and was unquestionably able to mitigate the consequences of the pandemic at the very least, despite the other voices of counter-population, which said when it was too much protection measures and when it was very little, except for minimum exceptions. Despite the admittedly unprecedented circumstances, the 2021 budget is fully in line with the New Democracy's programme and commitments to Greek citizens. It is the second budget in the last ten years that does not include any new taxes. That is why I insist and say that Christos Stakoras is the best Minister of Finance in the last decade. On the contrary, it integrates the permanent reductions in taxes introduced in 2019 and 2020 and the reductions in taxes and contributions made in response to the health crisis. It is a development and pro-investment budget and provides for an increase of GDP of 4.8% above the Eurozone average. It is realistic and a budget of continuity and consistency. It is reformist and flexible, integrating changes and institutional interventions to modernise state structures for the benefit of citizens. It includes a 22% reduction in HICP, a reduction in the income tax on natural and legal persons, the abolition of HICP in the small and instant islands, the reduction of insurance contributions, the reduction of the tax on distributed profits, the suspension of VAT on new buildings. It stimulates scientific and technological research and tax incentives for investments in the green economy, energy and digitisation. It incorporates the government's interventions to deal with the pandemic. It reduces and in some cases reduces the advance payment of income tax on natural and legal persons. The State continues to cover the insurance contributions on the nominal salary and the employers' contributions to the seasonal enterprises. It reduces by three percentage points the insurance contributions of private sector employees. It shall provide a discount on the regulated tax and insurance contributions paid in time. It abolishes the Solidarity Contribution for incomes derived from private economic activity and expands and extends the repayable advance and in 2021, which is the most effective aid measure for small and medium-sized enterprises. On this point, I will give an example of the aid and compensation received from the State budget in 2020 by natural persons and businesses in my place, Eurydice. From the measure of the repayable advance one to three sixty-seven taxpayers benefited from it and received EUR 1,984.469. From the repayable advance four benefited six hundred and thirty-six taxpayers and received EUR 1,87,041. The special purpose compensation measure for employees was collected from work suspensions of EUR 789.067. The special-purpose measure benefited from a thousand sixteen companies and received from the EUR 820,766 budget. These measures - and what is still necessary - will also be implemented in 2021 to tackle the consequences of the pandemic. In the area of reforms, the budget provides for the continuation of major investments, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of unemployment, as well as for the implementation of rescue and strengthening of the viability of public-sector companies - ELVO, EAV, LARCO and Scaramaga shipyards - for the benefit of the country's national economy, security and defence. It provides for the activation of the GFCF programme to support borrowers affected by the economic consequences of the pandemic, the development of the economy by exploiting the European resources of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the strengthening of the Armed Forces for the security of the country, the support of vulnerable social groups with increased costs for OPEK grants of EUR 600 million, the support of public health with additional infrastructure, equipment and recruitment costs in the ESI, the strengthening of public education by recruiting a significant number of permanent teachers, the provision of incentives to tackle infertileness, the continuous grant of an improved heating allowance, rather than oil, the protection of low wages from the consequences of pandemic, the extension and extension of unemployment benefits, the continuation of the Deprivation Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the 2021 budget under discussion, despite the difficult situation, which has not been mentioned since 1950, is ambitious and contains the optimism that all of us must show in order to address the challenges of the future for the benefit of our people and our country. He had good luck in the country and its citizens at these unprecedented critical times for New Democracy, the country's most responsible political power and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to be government. No one wants to imagine the fate of our country if the political slogan of the previous period was in the government. Under these circumstances and considering the great responsibility to our fellow citizens, I invite you to vote in favour of the State budget of 2021, uniting forces for the welfare of all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, before I arrive at Step I would like to remind the ministers and the government of some warm problems facing my country, the insurmountable natural mountainous Evrytania. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In the field of public health, it is absolutely essential that the Carpenesi Hospital be continued with medical pathologists and intensifiers after the approval of its new organisation. It is a major need to reorganise primary health care and to create incentives to serve regional medical services and a health centre. In the field of education, it is necessary to recruit permanent teachers and to strengthen vocational training. In the area of infrastructure, the immediate delivery of the first section of E65, bypassing Lamia, is essential, speeding up the entrustment of the study on the trans-European road axis of Lamia - Karpenisi - Agrinio and the integration of construction finance into the new ESDP. In the field of primary production, it is necessary to directly strengthen the farmers affected by the pandemic, to reorganise and strengthen the programme of young farmers and the programme of organic production, to strengthen and serve the forestry services of the prefecture and to complete the forest maps, to strengthen the Greek production of forest and apiculture products. In the tourism sector, most affected by the pandemic, it is necessary to protect and strengthen businesses and workers in winter tourism from the consequences of the pandemic, to extend and extend the social tourism programme by including winter tourism holidays, to strengthen investment incentives to modernise tourist infrastructures. In the field of welfare and employment, it is immediately necessary to approve the new operating organisation of the Carpenesian Social Welfare Foundation and its direct staff to address the acute problems of its area of responsibility, to extend and extend unemployment benefits, to speed up the award of disability benefits and to strengthen social work programmes. Finally, before I arrive at the Step, I wish to wish all my colleagues and those who are tested by the pandemic quick recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u236	Mr President, do we have any prediction of what time we're going to finish tonight?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u237	I think we're going well. I would like to say to the President, because there are about thirty Members left. I'll get in touch and we'll see if we can finish this sooner today. But I can't tell you right now. I'll get in touch with you and I'll tell you. The Minister for the Interior, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to express my condolences to all our fellow citizens who have lost their own people from the pandemic. Unfortunately, it's thousands. And that fills us all with grief. Of course, we all express our support, our solidarity with all those who fight for health and fight for life against the coronary, health-system workers, patients and among them our colleague, Giannis Placiotakis. The country, for ten months, has been facing a threefold threat, health, economic and national. We must meet and keep the country up, give security and realistic hope to society. It is a prerequisite for us to rely on the truth, to go strategically and to join forces. Let's not forget that we're all on board the same boat called Greece. To bring back the strong solidarity and esteem of the Greeks, that is to say, all the traits that have prevailed in the first quarter of this trial, without any hindrance to the protection of human life, as the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has done since the previous March. It doesn't matter how consumerly someone's going to spend this Christmas. It's important to be all Greeks here next year, healthy and safe. It is, of course, the right of every political force in this situation to make its own criticism and present its own positions. It must, however, be based on truth and reality. I would like you to allow me to say at this point that the Chief of Police Response, Mr. Tsipras in a debate held in Parliament on 12 November, referred to a reduction in the staff of the National Health System and tabled a table, saying that the data show that in September 2019 the workers of the Health System were 100 000 thirty-eight and that at the end of September 2020 the workers were ninety-four thousand four hundred and twenty-four. These are the evidence submitted by the Chief of Officer's Responsibility. Probably doesn't know any data. I don't want to give in to it. However, the facts are that in September 2019 the workers in the health system were hundreds of four thousand five hundred eighty-two and in September 2020 are a hundred fifteen thousand two hundred fifty-eight. There is an increase of about eleven thousand workers in the National Health System. I am tabling these data, which are from the registers of public sector human resources. Please check and revise the previous statements. I repeat, I do not want to give in to it. I think there has been a mistake, as far as the evidence is concerned. But the evidence is that. Therefore, the argument by the Officer that the Government has not strengthened the National Health System is not standing. It's a ham and it's not real. I repeat, it is very important that criticism should be made on the basis of facts and facts. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u239	He was talking about permanent recruitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u240	You'll see, gentlemen, the evidence and you'll find that I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u241	How many permanent recruitments did you make?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u242	You'll see that the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation has made reference to the contractors, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Colleague, don't interrupt. They'll be shot and seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u244	Please, Mr President, keep my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u245	Yes, Minister, I will keep your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u246	The Chief of Officerial Response was right, however, and the Minister is lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u247	You'll see. Mr. Chakalotos will see. Be patient. And you'll talk later. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, check the truth and reality. And it's not bad sometimes in life to recognize that someone's been wrong. The Chief of Officer's Reconciliation in what he testified was also referring to contractors. Check it out and you will find that you obviously have no knowledge of two, three published data in the human resources register. As long as it sounds stereotyped, ladies and gentlemen, we owe this threefold crisis to turn it into an opportunity. With this logic as a compass, the Ministry of Interior organized, in collaboration with other ministries, the management of the government and the public sector in an innovative way, while implementing a stable reform strategy, because this is an undeniable need for Greek society. The crisis has further highlighted the important role of the state that has to be flexible and effective. That is why he must cooperate with the private economy and the scientific community. He must continuously assess his powers and staff and give a scope for innovation and initiative, as well as opportunities for a dynamic growth of his executives. In these circumstances, teleworking took place, alternative hours for public sector workers, protection of public health-protected groups, care for children of the couples of workers in the public and private sectors, respect for family life. The extensive digital reform has been promoted. The tails and bureaucracy for many certificates now belong to the past. Of course, there's a job ahead of us. It's not complete. But things accelerated to a large extent. The state's emancipation is carried out with new institutions which, despite difficulties, have been implemented, such as the critical and important institution of the secretarial services, who have assumed significant responsibilities in all ministries. Key reforms are being implemented, such as the recent one we voted on for a fair, fast, objective system of naturalisation of foreigners. In the next few days, the Greek public is more inspiring. It promotes the reform of the recruitment system by further strengthening and upgrading the ASP and the introduction of the entire Greek written tender. At the same time, we directly and fully supported self-government, municipalities and regions in extremely difficult conditions. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis through the Ministry of Interior gave EUR 400 million of exceptional financial support to enable the municipalities to stand on their feet, to organise better their operation and to support socially weak groups. We also supported more than EUR 400 million for all households. We started a new relationship of confidence with the undeclared square-metre program. The family plans of three million Greek households were exempted from fees and fines of 1.5 billion euros. This is the historically greater reduction and extinguishation of private debt. It entered class everywhere, in terms of housing and the state and self-government gain more than EUR 150 million a year, stable revenues. Therefore, self-government this year has over half a billion euros further financial support through all these processes. We have strongly strengthened social infrastructure and programmes, such as 'Help at Home'. At the same time, we have set up a multi-faceted and innovative development programme, the 'ITIS TRIBER' project, with at least EUR 2.5 billion guaranteed. Our aim is to make use of the possibilities of this programme and the last municipality of the country. Already neighbourhoods of Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, neighbourhoods that were excluded from previous financial programmes, begin and see, in practice, significant changes, neighbourhoods that have the potential to change their aspects, highlight their advantages and create better living conditions, quality of life and safety for their citizens. This is what the municipalities of western Macedonia themselves see, a region in which the government bears particular weight and interest. They are preparing their own enhanced, special programme within the "CONTINU TIME" with 200m euros. Citizens are aware of this throughout the region, with extensive upgrades of many infrastructures, in particular water systems which are replaced in dozens of cities, in order to ensure the health and development prospects of residents and regions. A total of five hundred and fifty-five projects in the budget of EUR 1.4 billion have already been included in this programme. Already a hundred and thirty - four works are executed and another two hundred eighty - seven are auctioned. With a view to the next day of the pandemic and the great need to relaunch and rebuild the economy with thousands of new jobs, we are speeding up the implementation and interventions of this programme and, next year, we are moving ahead with steady steps in the reforms that the country needs to get time. The new system of priority recruitment is taking place. The first competition will take place in the first half of 2022, a reform that embraces the needs and prospects of the new generation in particular. Telework is being introduced. The relations of the state with the voluntary movement are inaugurated with a strong solidarity reserve of Greek society, but also growth for Greece tomorrow with a bill that we bring to the first quarter of the new year. Within 2021, the first written competition of foreigners takes place for their naturalisation. At the same time, the reform of multi-level governance is speeding up, a coming critical change in the establishment of the Greek state and of self-government. I would stress that we are ready in the basic direction of this reform, but the philosophy of our Government and the Ministry of Interior, in particular, is the essential dialogue with the social actors and citizens and with this reform. That is why we are participating in the very serious debate by self-government through the congress procedures organized by the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, because we want our reforms to have maximum social acceptance and participation. Our ambition is, with multi-level governance, as well as with the single code of self-government that will follow, to reduce bureaucratic mechanisms, bring greater and better speeds and efficiency to the state and to the service of citizens, and to strengthen social policy as a strong competence for self-government. In practice, we will have the strengthening of the self-sufficiency of the OTAs, their economic and administrative self-sufficiency, and their strengthening with resources and staff so that they can play the new strengthened role that we reserve them. Of course, in the next few months, we have promoted the implementation of the historic reform for the Greeks' vote abroad, which we have all agreed on together. With complete transparency, with cross-party cooperation, we will implement the law that we have all adopted together, because that is our self-evident national and political duty. Ladies and gentlemen, just before the dawn of a new year so important for Greek history, two hundred years from the Greek Revolution, let us give this anniversary its most creative meaning. With unity, draft strategy, endurance, Karterity, solidarity, first we must defeat the war with the koroni pandemic and, at the same time, reconstruct our state and economy reform. All of them, of course, realise that Greece will not grant a single inch of soil, air or sea, but will at the same time make a decisive contribution to stability in the region and peace, because peace is a prerequisite for the constant prosperity of the Greeks. The Government of Nea Democratakis and Kyriakos Mitsotakis walks with a plan, with determination unites the Greeks to overcome this test and we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Minister. I will now give Mr Georgios Tsipras the floor from SYRIZA and Mr Yiannis Pappas from New Democracy will then be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. One introductory comment on the budget. In the 2019 budget for 2020 you may remember that with just 1% increase in investments in the first nine months of 2019, you had budgeted for last year, in 2019, 8.8% increase in investments, which is, of course, outrageous, it was not from anywhere. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer. The final number was -2.6%. So instead of +8.8%, with just two months to close in 2019, you achieved -2.6%. And you come here this year and you make a budget even worse in your assessments. I'll say two numbers. In investment you have a 20-inch deviation from the OECD and a corresponding deviation you have on exports from both the Communitv and the OECD. It's not about small discrepancies. They're huge, and one of them is obviously falling out completely. And it's probably not the Commission and the OECD. I mean, with these, a number. You have said many times, your MPs, your ministers, continue to invoke the EUR 24 billion that your Prime Minister has announced as aid in the midst of COVID. The real figures that the budget itself mentions for the month of 2020 are EUR 6.95 billion, with the exception of deferrals of taxes. It is EUR 6.95 billion, and liquidity - funding - and budgetary measures, which you anticipate until the end of the year, i.e. in two more months, in November - December, to reach EUR 13 billion. I'm telling you, it's gonna be 13 billion euros. I can't believe it, but I'm saying it'll be enough. The EUR 24 billion, with whatever leverage you want and as many postponements as you want, how do they come about? Why don't you tell the Greek people the truth and talk with the same numbers at least? We when we say that you are the last country in the Eurozone in budgetary measures as a percentage of GDP, are based on data. The EUR 24 billion you say and say again where they come from? Indeed, if it were EUR 24 billion, we would be close to the Eurozone average. We're too far away. Sadly, both Stakoras and Mr. Skakakis are away. And I'm coming to the rest. For a month, we've had about a hundred deaths every day. For the second wave, alone, it is one of the highest rates of death per million across the European Union. It is as macabre as the second wave, as the first wave in countries like Italy, Spain and Britain. Depending on the population, it has absolutely no difference. It is sad that you hide or try to hide the reality from numbers that you add to the dead of the first and second waves, while Greece is aware that it was not hit by the first wave, to show that Greece today is doing well. We're not doing well. And it's even sadder than the media, the unfortunately controlled, how they presented and with how many reports of hospitals, relatives of the dead, etc. For Europe last spring, when we had no first wave, but about today it is like nothing happens. It's just a number, a hundred ten, ninety eight etc. In Germany, just last week, Merkel apologized because their dead reached about six per million and considered it not a success. We've exceeded ten per million per day, and it's like nothing's wrong. And you've probably lost sense of measure when you're admiring yourself for the successes in the field of pandemic. But you're almost admiring in all your policy fields. And I want to say here that the issue of the media is not just a question of democracy, which is extremely serious, it is - even worse - a matter of substance when we lose eggs and passovers to what needs to be done. And I come to the point of defence. As you managed in the economy in 2010-2015, not just a failure, some recession, but you have achieved a strategic blow to the Greek economy, since then we lost a third of our annual wealth produced, our national income, you have managed - in less than a year now - to Turkey a strategic retreat of the country from defending our sovereign rights, as has never been done since the invasion of Cyprus in 1974. This new huge diplomatic failure by the government in Brussels, the recent, new failure to foreign policy thus concludes a first cycle, not only of retreat, but also of downgrading the international geopolitical credibility and the prestige of the country, which almost silences our neighbour in violating our sovereign rights and does not react, does not even exploit all its tools and weapons, not even exploit the tools we have in the European Union. Let me point out here that Poland and Hungary on their own issues, proportionally much less important than our country's sovereign integrity, threatened to veto and forced the European leadership to return to a new proposal. For the Greek Government, the summits go and come, with new humiliations each time, giving the impression that Greece is completely powerless to deal with the neighbour. It isn't. This lack of strategy is reflected in a salt that everyone can understand: Mr. Syrgygos, who walks around the channels, has perhaps forgotten what he said just a month and a half ago, that the seismic investigations are red. Mr Liikopoulou, who was released because he said that the red line is the drills. Mr. Petsas, along with Mr. Gerapetritis, who says that a red line is six nautical miles. Mr Vorides says that our rights are not being violated, while our UN delegation says that our sovereign rights are being violated and so is the NATO Summit. And so on. You do not even have an assessment of what has been done recently in Brussels. Mr. Dendias states that non-implementation is a reward for the Albanian Turkey, a strong statement. Mr Petsas states: 'Would we like sanctions in December? That is not our purpose.' It was not our intention to sanctions and the incompetent, and that is why a dangerous Prime Minister says that a step has been taken. You don't have a success a year now, your creation, you don't have a single success. The two agreements with Italy and Egypt are well aware that they could have been concluded for many years now, because precisely with the content they have been having are problematic - I say it - for our country. You made a defensive agreement with the United States, giving it all away, without asking for anything at all. You have not achieved one thing, you do not have a success so far as far as the European Union is concerned, to support us in the problem we have with our neighbour. You announced the Rafah market, then fuelling the mass media for an imminent defence aid agreement with France and unfortunately there is nothing like that on the horizon. In total, you do not have a success. With Israel, with Egypt, you and Emirates consume and eat from the ready - to - eat relationships that have been built mainly in ours four years. As far as North Macedonia is concerned, we risk losing the benefits of the agreement on your own internal problems. And you also bring a defensive budget to which there is no talk about the defence industry. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister, in order to announce the Raphael market and other equipment, spoke of a decisive reinforcement of the defence industry just last September. Instead, we are seeing a failed contest for Scaramaga, an extremely problematic investment, according to how things are going in Elefsina, a huge mismanagement of the NSAs and an undermining, whether in view of privatisation or in view of the fact that we do not know what, in the LCA. No move at all. Finally, as far as staff are concerned, there is no provision for additional costs at all, and your Minister for National Defence himself complains to Mr Stagira that he does not give him any money for the extra expenses. You know very well what our officers and permanent staff are pulling into the Armed Forces, and especially at this time there is no provision for additional costs. In conclusion, because of the period we will not vote against the defensive budget, but because of the enormous lack of strategy and the fact that we have absolutely no confidence in you, especially in defence expenditure and how to make use of it, we are not going to vote in favour of it. Let me say here - and I close, Mr President - that the equipment in question is not yet in Parliament. We hope, for example, that on the issue of the Navy, we do not go to choices that are most suited to the port, and we hope that any choices made will be combined with the country's overall defence aid, even with defence aid agreements, and not that what is always the easiest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. Mr. Ioannis Pappas will now be speaking from New Democracy, then Mrs. Kallipe Vetta from SYRIZA, Mr. Neocles Cretan from New Democracy, and immediately after the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Zavvos. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are called upon to ratify for the year - the 2021 milestone is a roadmap to get out of the crisis in which we are, a crisis with global characteristics, unprecedented in the 21st century. It is a budget aimed at the whole society that has elected us to productive bodies. It is aimed at those who will put the Greek economy fully into operation again. Ladies and gentlemen, the decisions taken since the pandemic principle and the budget reflect the intention of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis to support the health system, but also to support the whole range of economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen, take pencil and paper because I think you do not know the facts and you do not know how to make good calculations. I do not know if George Tsipras is here, but because he is looking for the data, I can tell him that until October of the four support tools per region has been taken by the Region of Central Greece EUR 352 million, the Region of Attica EUR 5,6 billion, the Region of Crete EUR 1,2 billion, the South Aegean Region, where the Dodecanese, my islands, EUR 1,1 billion, the Peloponnese Region EUR 411 million, EUR 456 million on the Ionian Islands, EUR 418 million on the western Greece. I am saying these figures because, apart from these - keep notes - we have the following: the repayable advance, we have the TPIX - they are the four tools - we have a suspension of tax, insurance and credit obligations for those affected, we have suspensions of employment contracts and at the same time a ban on redundancies. We took 'bravo' throughout the planet on how we faced this huge crisis. We have a second reduction of 3% in insurance contributions, a reduction which increases the net income of workers. It is estimated that it will be around 1.8 billion euros across the country. There has been a suspension of the contribution of solidarity in the private sector, the complete abolition of the ETUC on our small islands, a reduction in the tax on firms affected, a 22% reduction in the ETUC, a reduction from 22% to 9% in the income tax to 10,000 euros. But I can't see you guys taking note. Reduction of corporate taxation from 28% to 24%, suspension of VAT on new buildings for three years, huge investments made in our country and I will talk about some major multinationals such as "MICROSOT", "PFIZER", but also an investment - landmark to be made on an island of the Dodecanese, Astypalea from "VOLKSWAGEN" and the island will be an example for the whole planet. At the same time, we also have the Recovery Fund, a fund from which Greece is aware that it will receive a total of EUR 32 billion. You have heard it from all my colleagues, you have heard it from all the members of the government. EUR 19.3 billion is grants and EUR 12.7 billion from soft loans. The pillars of the Recovery Fund will be to strengthen employment and social cohesion, support for entrepreneurship, attract private investment, green development, digital transformation and the development of new technologies. Believe me, many Europeans and, unfortunately, many here in this Chamber had us for less, but Mr Mitsotakis and our Government ruined their plans. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to highlight individual issues and put them in mind by the financial staff. The first and most important to me and the inhabitants of the islands I mentioned it from the Step of the Parliament and a year ago exactly. This is not one of the reduced rates of VAT on the Aegean islands, on the islands of the Dodecanese, a privilege recognised by the state and the European Union many years ago taking into account the multi-insularity and difficulty of connecting and communicating our islands with mainland Greece. It is a measure that the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government has released. Today the reduced tax rates exist on the islands of the northern Aegean and from the islands of the Dodecanese in Kos and Lero alone, because they are islands that raise a high burden of immigration. What I am asking on behalf of the Dodecanese society is that this measure should be extended to all our islands, because the conditions and situations require it. This really is what matters. It does not mean remote islands, ladies and gentlemen of our government, such as Kastelorizo, Agathonisi, Leipzig, Arki, Kassos and Tilos having VAT at the moment 24%. And that's not populism, it's the least we can do for our locusts who hold the Greek flag high. A second point on which I would like to address myself is the 40% cut-back measure for affected enterprises and their employees. I would like to take into account the perspective of extending this measure until the end of 2021, of course, with the State's constant involvement in limiting the loss of revenue and the owners. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to withstand and come back when we bring normality to the market and not to see closed operations, as the officers of the Officers are dreaming and want. I would also like to address the Finance Minister on the issue of borrowers of the Dodecanese Cooperative Bank, which is under special liquidation and all of them in a bad position. Minister, it is incomprehensible not to apply the favourable measures for debt arrangements to borrowers and banks under special liquidation. The Cooperative Bank of Dodecanese supported the economy of Dodecanese and the government now has to protect them from clearers, such as all borrowers of systemic banks. I believe that our government must finally listen to this and send a message to the Bank of Greece, that they too must have the help that everyone else has, everyone who has their loans at the moment in the systemic banks, because they are not responsible for the fact that the Cooperative Bank of Dodecanese was once shut down in order to find themselves in this tide of problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Fourthly, something very important to me - and I thank the Minister for the Interior has said so, and I thank him very much - for the enormous work that is being done on our islands. The huge really, the many projects that are being done through the crisis and especially on our small islands, which satisfy the inhabitants, showing them that we are close to them. Honestly, Minister, from this step, thank you very much for what you are doing through the huge programme and the 'ITIS TRITIS' project, thank you for all the billions that will be given. There is a need for upgrading of road networks, ports, building infrastructure on islands and energy infrastructure. It is a huge issue that we have and I sincerely thank you for this step. At the same time, I would like to make a special reference to the buildings of the Rhodes and Kos real estate register, as well as to the judiciary of Rhodes, in need of immediate intervention. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice, Mr Tsiaras and the Secretary-General, Mr Alexandres, and their staff who have been directly with us and with coordination we are moving towards these solutions. The above buildings are interconnected with the history of the Dodecanese and must be safe and functional. At the same time, I should like to say that it is immediate and necessary to move forward - and we are in agreement with the Municipality of Kos and the Ministries - in a new court house on the island of Kos, as well as in a new hospital on the island of Kos, where, apart from the fact that there are forty-five thousand inhabitants, the island was visited by about a million two hundred tourists last year, and I believe that in the next two and a half million years there will be more than two and a half million. In the same logic, I'd like to talk to you about the properties the EBRD manages. It is time to be attributed to local communities in order to exploit themselves for the benefit of their country. They belong to local communities, and they need to be back in our hands. The EBRD has now done some work for ten years, but unfortunately these buildings remain most abandoned. They relate to the history of our islands and it is necessary to find them again near our islands. We'll give them life. They're buildings abandoned, abandoned. Right now, Kos' land register is leaving the building where it's housed, because they're evicting him. It is not right now that EBRD should be asked to provide a building that exists - the only building on the island - and the EBRD should refuse it and this building should be more than ten years decommissioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u253	Good, Mr. Comrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u254	I shall close, Mr President, in two minutes. Forgive me, but I had to report some evidence at first without my aim. We cannot raise SYRIZA colleagues, such as Mr Tsipras a moment ago, and speak so provocatively and outrageously and not see the facts. They take advantage of the weakness that currently exists in society every day, the weakness of the world and the pain. They don't see the honest, real picture. You are currently driving us crazy in the process of 'close - open'. Can't you see that Europe has opened up? Great Britain has opened up, Germany has opened up, France has opened up, and at the moment they are going back to total lockdown, why have huge problems been created? And you come here from the summer to tell us 'tourism has closed', 'tourism has opened'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Comrade, you're already in ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, these things are not serious. We must be serious about Greek society and the world from the Step of the House. We cannot play with the pain of the world on our islands and in the rest of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Comrade, you've been over ten minutes. Your colleagues will not be able to make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u258	I'm done, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u259	We went to 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u260	Before I finish, I would like to say that this is a realistic road map that is set for the future, and that is why I am voting for it and I invite you all to do the same. I would like to thank and say that as Cleobulos, Lindios, one of the seven wise men of ancient Greece in the 6th century BC."Whoever, you've got luck, he mentioned." In other words, mention the benefits you have received.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Comrade, you've been over eleven minutes. It's not fair to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, I shall end. I would simply like to thank you for the work that has been done on our islands. It matters. I would therefore like to thank Mr Odysseus Athanasios for the renovation of the Police Department and all the equipment in Kastelorizo. It is important, therefore, to mention it, Mr President. I should like to thank Mr Dimitris Giannakopoulos and VIANEX for the renovation and equipment of the Health Centre in Kastelorizo. The Kastelorizo, which you have known now, my dear colleague. You have now suddenly discovered the island and the miles when you did not know that there are sea borders. I should also like to thank the Association of Saint Marina and President Anastasia Stavrianou for their equipment, millions of euros in all hospitals in Greece. I should like to thank the institution "STAYROS NIORHOS" for its offer and also for the shipowner Mr.Vangelis Marinaki and Mrs. Angeliki Fragou and the company "ION" for the donation of 12 new beds to the Hospital of Nice. Thank you very much. This is worthy of imitation for all of us. Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday to everyone, good year! I am voting in favour of the budget for our country. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u263	Thank you. Mrs Vetta Calliope will now take the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Cretan, Minister Zavvos and Mr Tsakalotos will be followed. Let's keep the time, please, because we said we'd be done sooner today. We still have some ministers who will speak and we have said to stop at the end of the 16th cycle. They are about sixteen other Members and they have said that they will speak five ministers and three parliamentary representatives. If we have to, we'll be interrupting sooner. But if we keep the time, we will win two or three Members. Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is a top parliamentary procedure, as it is an opportunity to make a real account of the events of each government, while at the same time giving the opportunity to quote and compare proposals for the next day. Starting with the 2020 report, there is no longer any doubt about it. The government has failed everywhere. Obviously, it is difficult to find the situation because of the pandemic, but the governments are judged to be difficult, where you are repeatedly failing. The New Democracy had time, consensus, but also fiscal tools, to record positive effects on the economy and health. Unfortunately, not only did it not succeed, but it has seen a number of negative records in ranking the country in the last positions internationally. I would remind you that Greece has entered the pandemic with 37 billion euros of the pillow and regulated debt left by SYRIZA. At the same time, thanks to the European Union's decisions, there has been a suspension of budgetary stability and surpluses, and unprecedented tools have been put in place to halt the crisis. Finally, thanks to the international context of avoiding investment risks, the government bonds of all countries are moving at almost zero rates, allowing for very cheap lending. How did the government take advantage of this circumstance? They're talking about the results. According to Eurostat, Greece is the last in Europe in the protection of workers' incomes, it is the last or the best case in four, five worse countries in the health funding costs, while the country marks the second worst performance with a recession of 11.7% for the third quarter of 2020, when there were no restrictive measures at all. Are you still insisting on saying that the measures you take are sufficient, when the employees receiving from EUR 0 to EUR 200 have been twelfths in recent times or when the small and medium-sized enterprises in the country are in line with the European Commission's SAFE survey in the last positions on access to bank lending or again when you have been making the worst performance in employment since 2013, when you have again been ruling? You're probably breaking the records every time you're given the chance! To health, things are, unfortunately, just as bad. Your failure with the three thousand dead in the last few weeks - with a negative record in relation to the average European - is a proof that you were not interested, you certainly did not want to prepare for the second wave of pandemic Your ideas against public health have made the ESS powerless and the hospitals of many regions unable to cope with it. Even worse it is not the fact that you are out of reality, as your actions and words show at a time when the economy and society are sighing you are careless and sadly destructive. Now come to the 2021 budget that is both virtual and challenging, as you reduce public health expenditure at the same time as you look forward to increased revenues from taxation. You are looking forward to 4.8% growth, which means that we are definitely abandoning the "V" development, while there are even worse estimates of almost zero growth stagnation. The result is one. The citizens of the country at the end of the four-year period, even if your predictions are verified, which, I would remind you, have been constantly disproved since 2007, will be at the same or worse level than the one we handed it over in 2019. Your governance will once again be a black hole for the country. In some parts of the budget, the situation is destructive. I shall refer to only three points in time. The total virtual budget also includes the virtual reality of the Government for culture, as the EUR 15 million that you had cut out from the 2020 budget are recycled in 2021. Instead of bravely supporting modern artistic creation and its people, who are brutally affected, you are increasing expenditure on the offices of political leadership and the secret funds that you have just introduced. The analgesia you display for the culture of the living and the heritage of this country which, when you do not enjoy it, has been used as a photography decor only, since at the same time you are establishing the possibility of removing monuments for fifty years. In culture, too, you are creating poverty and, of course, you are talking about growth. In sport, and the government observes destruction as another Nero, as it only cares about communication and election cooking. At the same time that amateur athletes in basketball, volleyball, handball and a number of other sports experience total abandonment, there is not even a measure to support them. Instead of increasing the budget in an Olympic year, you move to the same level simply to get the obligation out. Even if throughout the country we are talking about a four-year stagnation in the regional section of Kozani, the situation is even worse, now talking about certain regression. Violent liberation will lead to GDP fall, unemployment evacuation, population evacuation and the region's conversion into Eldorado for ambitious investors and looters. Just yesterday, the Federation of Trade Associations of Western and Central Macedonia notified us of a letter from the HSY, the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, which concerns a resolution of a protest about the government's choices against small and medium-sized enterprises. The same is true for farmers, farmers and the long-term unemployed. This is the future for our region. Gifts to the few, condemnation for the many! Ladies and gentlemen, two policies conflict on the future of the country, as shown by the Pissaridis report: One is the model that has led us to the crisis, the recession, the increase in social inequalities with neoliberal recipes and the transfer of public goods to individuals. The other is fair growth with a strong and effective social state, with investment in labour, technology and innovation. We are in the face of critical decisions. The vote on the budget, which I invite you to take, is the first decisive step for a next day of inclusiveness and marginalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Vetta. Now Mr. Neocles Cretan has the floor from New Democracy, and then the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Zavvos, will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many have mentioned McMillan, but I will start today with John Major: 'The first requirement of politics is not intelligence and energy, but patience. Politics is a road of endurance, on which the turtle usually beats the rabbit." SYRIZA government started feeding rabbits with rocks. He then made the hare in the negotiations with the institutions and eventually depleted the patience of the Greek people, who sent it to Civicism, a role that democracy needs. SYRIZA's obsession with the outdated rhetoric and obsolete arguments of ideological jurisdiction make it a negative factor in the national effort to tackle pandemic and to regain its effects on the real economy. They've mentioned it so far, that the second wave hit us hard. The viral load in some areas of the territory is still large and the situation in the NSR has been marginal. It remained fortunately managed, because the actions we have taken to strengthen it are important and will act as a reserve for the future. Three points I shall mention briefly, the need for vaccination, support for agricultural production and support for the Greek region in general. It has been heard from the Step of the House that the need to introduce monoclonal antibodies has been introduced so that we can save half the deaths. We must always present the global picture to avoid confusing our fellow citizens. Monclonal antibodies are only available for clinical trials in extra-nosocomial patients, with specific predisposing factors to develop severe disease, while their availability is very small. It is also a class of medicines that generally have more indicative side effects than vaccines, according to the results of the tests so far, while their research is now entering phase three, so we will find out about their effectiveness and safety. On the contrary, we have vaccines that have successfully passed the third stage of control, with tens of thousands of volunteers and FDA authorisations, which prevent infection with the virus and do not just cure the disease. As a doctor, I honestly cannot justify these public statements in the public debate and especially in the Step of the House. This irresponsible attitude raises doubts for our fellow citizens. We have to hold a stand of responsibility. Here I would like to publicly congratulate the Prime Minister on his initiative to be vaccinated first. It is better to act than words and that is appreciated positively by our people. With regard to the budget now, it is assumed that it is affected by the events that are taking place, as pandemic and economic effects, the strengthening of public health and economic activity, the Turkish threat and the execution of large armament programmes, the need to promote large infrastructure projects, which have put up for years, the transition to green development and the need to achieve the targets for reducing the energy footprint are those that define the framework. I would like to stress the great effort the government and all the Members have made to upgrade the region's health care facilities. In my regional section, Laconia, the upgrading of secondary care is important, the integration of new medical staff and the supply of new medical equipment make the field of secondary care capable of dealing with pandemic. We do the same with steady steps to upgrade all health centres, thus strengthening primary care. Apart from the health sector, however, it is also very important to strengthen the primary sector, which is becoming even more important in times of crisis, as the earth never stops producing and restricting it to any pandemic, no virus. In the primary sector, we must, with intensity and rapid action, study the issue of illegal Hellenism, the extension of the Kalamata Olives PDO, in the prefectures that produce the largest domestic proportion and the creation of the appropriate guarantees for the re-establishment of international markets, and reverse the pressure on producers' prices. I consider this to be a top issue for our olive growers and we will have to move forward immediately and in a coordinated manner. Finally, I would like to point out that the establishment of schools by university institutions should be in the light of the possibility of developing them in the regions concerned, the will of local bodies to embrace these new departments, the finding of even external funding, and the prospect of interconnecting them with foreign universities and the attraction of many foreign students, through a very strong brand name. In Lakonia we are ready to embrace a new TEFA, we have developed a feasibility study and we have guaranteed funding for the first three years, by donors Lakon businessmen, while Sparta is a powerful global brand name. It is also given that we will also fight for the return of the nursing school, the removal of which really hurt the Lacones two years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, we have stood up and again made Greece a positive example. For the year when our citizens are coming, they expect our government quickly to develop measures and all of us who are patient in order to cross the pandemic canvas. The budget of 2021 shall serve to that end. So we're gonna need both speed and patience. They are needed by our fellow citizens. Thank you. Happy holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u267	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, especially for keeping time. Now the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Zavvos, will speak. Immediately afterwards, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Mr Tsakalotos will speak. Mr. Zavvos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this time I would like to express my sympathy to all our fellow citizens and their familiars who are being tested by this pandemic at all times. I would, in particular, like to send the wishes for rapid recovery to my dear colleague Giannis Placiotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the horn pandemic has in an unexpected way hit global health and the global economy. The two responseary crises that we experienced in a decade, the prolonged economic and pandemic crisis overturned geopolitical and geo-economic hierarchies of decades. They showed new scales of values. They mark the necessary balance that we need to regain with the needs of society, as well as highlighting the importance and role that the state is always required to play in support of society. They also highlighted the new challenges and priorities in the economy and, more importantly, that of digital transformation and the development of the economy in terms that will take into account the protection of the environment. The reconfigurations that are being noted today require us all to be determined, strong and firm to get out of the crisis as soon as possible and with fewer losses, but require insight, to read the developments of times properly, not to lose perspective and to plan the next day in time. The specific nature of this year's budget lies in this very context. It is intended to bring together two changing components, on the one hand, the need to strengthen both health systems and the real economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and, on the other hand, to lay the foundations for organising the development model of our economy after the crisis, to use the common European guidelines, the Development Fund, to form a new, healthy, productive model in the prospect of sustainable development. Most of all, however, this is the top time of politics in its most original role in the role of the new social institution. Realist policy and budget cannot be successful unless they meet the needs of the times, on a course that reality imposes. However, within the climate of uncertainty, we have three stable, very important benchmarks for the economy. Firstly, the liquidity we provide with with a determination to keep the economy up, that is to say, the entire range of measures taken by the government to create the turbulence of the crisis, supporting households, businesses, liquidity, loans, guarantees and all relief measures. Secondly, with the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which was even confirmed yesterday in the recent decisions, to extend the exceptional programme for the purchase of assets, because of the pandemic, with EUR 500 billion. Thirdly, with the most important development, which is to reach an agreement at the European Council a few days ago, with the Development Fund and the definitively unlocking EUR 72 billion that we are to blame. For the banking sector, in such a demanding environment, the New Democracy Government has managed to complete major reforms and launch new ones. Here, in this Chamber, we have all voted for bills - stations - and that is important - in most cases in a general consensus and cooperation climate. We voted for the 'HRAKLE' law, four parties voted for the law on corporate governance, three parties voted for the microfinance law, as well as for the fight against money laundering. The banking system "HRAKLIS" is the Greek Government's leading reform to deal with red loans and was successfully crowned. It has achieved the participation of all systemic banks, but, above all, it has gained investors' confidence in our country's prospects. A confidence that remained firm even in the pandemic. Within less than a year of the legislation we have had here, we have achieved a systemic solution with a total reduction in red loans of around EUR 30-35 billion. In other words, within a year we have achieved a reduction in red loans of about 40%. And the most important of all, without any charge to the State budget, without any charge to the Greek taxpayer. Today, we are planning the second phase, the 'HERAKLIS II' programme, to eliminate the remaining loans immediately. In the next eighteen months, we will have reduced red loans to a one-digit number and we will be very close to the European average. This is a great one - let me stress - a success of the government, which knew and knows the reward of international and European institutions, because it frees the Greek banks from their neck nipple, because they will be able to fulfil their role and finance the real economy, businesses and households. At the same time, we are planning to further strengthen the operation of the 'HRAKLE' and the secondary purchase of red loans by creating a central credit register, the Central Credit Register, with funding from the Development Fund. With this mechanism we are strengthening the transparency of portfolios, which are essential to encourage investor participation. We have other initiatives on the so-called secondary red loan market and on the application of the bankruptcy code. At the same time, we are launching a series of reforms on the role and functioning of the Financial Stability Fund, while prioritising the next steps that will lead us to the gradual deinvestment of the public by the banks in a safe manner. We are also going on to reform the national framework for special clearing, with the best use of available tools and on the basis of the best European practices. We are launching through the recovery and resilience plan the digitisation of the tools that will enable the public to have statistics on the progress of special cleansing, the total recovery and distribution and to make better use of these findings. In this decision, namely the extension and the 'HRAKLI', the positive evaluation of our country, even in the last Eurogroup, which has been welcomed, has played a decisive role, because we have been able to strengthen the resilience of the banking system. The corporate governance capital market is modernising and introducing innovative rules for the operation, control and transparency of companies with listed securities, so that we do not relive the FOLLI FOLLIE phenomena that have blackened the reputation of the Greek stock exchange. Furthermore, we are also moving towards strengthening the supervisory mechanisms of the capital market. An informal committee of experts that we have set up with the main market operators has made fifty proposals, which we evaluate. Our strategy is to internationalise the Greek capital market as a misguided institution for the protection of small investors, to attract new investors and to raise capital for our businesses. We call an important regional role, especially in a period of global change in European capital markets. We look forward to a modern economy, more productive, more competitive. We look forward to an economy that will take advantage of all the opportunities open to us by geo-economic restructuring and strengthening Europe and the Recovery Fund. We are doing green and sustainable funding. We are studying actions to promote new financial instruments, such as green bonds. Our aim is in particular to attract new investment in the country and access to the market for small and medium-sized enterprises. The so-called fintech companies belong to them. We are also planning programmes, the so-called utilities, the creation of joint programmes aimed at reducing the administrative burden and adapting the business models of banks, with the aim of always improving and serving citizens. We are also aiming at strengthening private insurance and we are going to put in place implementing measures on the pan-European individual pension product, and that is why we have made a working group. Mr President, to conclude, I would like to say that global changes are taking place in the international economy, which the pandemic crisis is accelerating. The government takes care of the best and most effective way: firstly, to curb the serious effects of the crisis on the economy and society. Secondly, it must pass the economy of our country at a completely new age, in which growth will be about the whole of the Greek economy. In this political direction, the aim of the government's financial staff, under the clear guidelines of the Prime Minister, is to implement a budget with realism and a new vision. In particular, in the sensitive area of the financial system, the reforms that we have implemented and are launching prove this philosophy in practice, that is, our development objective, strengthening our economy's competitiveness for the benefit of all taxpayers and all Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, too, Minister. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Euklidis Tsakalotos, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. After I agree with Mr Zavvos on his wishes for the people suffering in this pandemic and after I agree with Mrs Bakoyannis and with you, Mr President, on the vaccine and the importance of going to all the poor countries in the world, let me be very brief on the staff of the Ministry of Finance. I will not deal with the arguments and figures again, because their presence in this budget has gone far beyond me. It goes beyond me when Mrs Ahtsioglou speaks and says for the third quarter that we are the worst in the European Union and they are shouting as she speaks, and Mr Skokakakis and Mr Stagioras say that you tell us about the nine months. And then Mr Stakoras goes out and says, for one thing, that once again, at the level of nine months, Greece's image is better than the European average. In fact, he says that and deposites a painting that says exactly the opposite. Today Mr Stavros says, on the subject again: 'What I said and showed Parliament is that the Greek economy has done better than the countries of the south and, obviously, I do not know where the 'presumably' emerges - 'at nine months we are worse than the average European.' We say a lie, we don't say, "I'm sorry" that we have misled the House and you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and we continue! Also, how can I say on Mr. Doglakakis' argument that SYRIZA proposes 40 billion euros and says that first we said 14 and then we said 5 other figures, as if there were no one to understand in New Democracy that, obviously, if you had spent these 14 billion euros, we would not have said any more measures. Really, is that your level, Mr. Dog? Really, is that your level? A freshman student wouldn't say what you said. He wouldn't know that if you had spent this, we wouldn't have gone to the following measures, so they don't add up? You know, Mr. Dogacakis, I'm not a fan of neoliberal school thinking, but I, too, expected that he would have less solid foundations than that. You've become the Treasury, in communication, to be the contact point of Trump's or Trump's own. And you should know that this road is dangerous, because when after a Mr. Mitsotakis there will be a Trump or a Bolsonar, you know that you also put your hand on this development. Instead of continuing with the Ministry of Finance, I shall begin with the report by CEDIT SUISSE on global wealth. Mr Karathanasopoulos had also been mentioned, Mr Scandalidis had also been mentioned. The poorest 50% has only 1% of the world's atomic wealth. The richest 1% of the world's households own 43% of the world's atomic wealth. Within 1% of the richest, there are 0.1% - one hundred and seventy-five thousand people - who have 25%. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you hear these numbers, what do you feel? Shock? Gross? It has nothing to do with us? Is that a natural phenomenon? What exactly do you feel about the global economy? That in the rich countries for these results is it because they didn't have a Pissaridis to tell them about more liberalisation in the labour markets? Is that your way of dealing with these terrible numbers? That if we had an even more liberal labour market and had lower wages and more precarious jobs, could workers save more and increase their share of wealth? When you see Greece, what exactly do you see? A Greece that is dominant and weak in capital and therefore we need to take more action against the strike against the world of work? Is this what you see or do you see that disparities will be reduced when we make more privatisations in the companies that have remained or in the insurance sector itself? Is that what you think? Is this about twenty-thirty years that we've had the same economic model? And what do you think? That there's a very big state? Is that coming out of those numbers? Do you understand and do not invest in health this year and reduce the health expenditure by EUR 572 million? I shall mention another number that I love most, which shows what your intention was between the summer you came out and the beginning of the pandemic. No new ID, no one, because you never had it in your mind. And now do you have the text of Pissaridis that has almost nothing on the public health system or on education? The originality, the innovation of Pissaridis, is the loans for students? Are you not following the debate in Britain and America on student debt, which has arisen from these measures at all? Is this going to reduce inequality? The third down, we've been waiting for it for twenty, thirty years. And we saw the numbers and what third down is there. So, after we make the richer, richer ones, will the poorer ones also benefit? If I wanted a word to describe Mr Mitsotakis and his Government, that would be 'technicalism'. It is not true that populism is here and on the rival awe is technocracy. They're going together. If you look at the reasons of Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Trump, Mr. Johnson, you see that all three are directed at technocracy, technology and populism. All three make this connection. Mr Mitsotakis told us that the Pissaridis report is neutral; it is technically neutral. And the JRC can use it. That's how I figured out he told you. And at the same time he's a populist, because he's talking about the world, about all people as if you could help them all together, without making choices who you're gonna help and who you're not gonna help, without understanding that every technocratic solution has winners and losers. And that's why when before the pandemic you lowered taxes, half went to business, with the known results in the fourth quarter of 2019 and the first quarter of 2020. That is why now that you are supposed to support businesses, you are supporting them in this way. You had promised that you were the middle-grade party and said before the elections, "we will support the middle-frames". And now you don't even hear what GSEW and the people of small business, who tell you that with the measures you're taking, it's like you think that the market is taking care of both the big and the small ones, that the "click away" is for everyone, that everyone has cheques that "saving away", everyone expects the Christmas and holidays to pay the VAT, the social obligations they have, that everyone has economies of scale for the technological adequacy of the measures you're taking. Do you think that you are doing well and treating all business as well, why do you have to leave a hundred, fifty thousand and so what is saddened by Mr. Kavatha and others, is your wish? But if it is your wish, and you think that this will be the way production reconstruction will take place in the country, get out and say it's a zombie, that we don't need it, that we can't help everyone. And then I won't tell you populists, I'll tell you social Darwinists. But say it. Do not be populists and say, "We will support them all" and then in practice see who you are supporting and who you are not. What does SYRIZA say and what is SYRIZA looking for - a Progressive Alliance? First of all, we are neither technicalism nor populism. We believe that neither technology nor science is neutral. Specific scientific approaches have led to these elements, to the inequalities that I have told you. They weren't neutral. They had values in the technocratic view. We are also not populists to say that we can help them all. We understand that when we rule, we will have to make decisions, set priorities. We understand that social and economic policy is a contradiction, it is a conflict of values, interests, political ideas. We don't mock the world, that we have the neutral science that can help us. We simply want a social science of social emancipation, based on values - we say it openly - equality and justice, democracy and freedom, the sense of solidarity and the community. That's the science that leads us. However, we are also led by the new waves of women, who in this crisis have understood that difficult jobs, in care, in health, are done more than anyone else and are not evaluated by your own sciences and your own politicians and that is why they are low-paid. And they understand women, but also the people who want to be supportd, that perhaps care, health and education are a little more important things in our lives than money is paid for brokers, people who are in other jobs. We also want to unite with young people who understand in this crisis that they will have worse jobs in the future, worse wages, worse pensions than parents had and much more authoritarianism, as Mr Chrysochidis made very clear two, three hours ago. We also want to unite with all those who really understand the importance of inequality, how different it is now with COVID and be poor in one region of Greece and be rich in another region. We are therefore building on this with the programme that we are going to present. Ladies and gentlemen, Marx taught us that only in a crisis there is transparency in the real social relationships, the real strength of the rich and capitalists. A large part of the world in this crisis understands. And when he hears you say 'we'll do some measures', 'we'll make a budget', 'we'll spend a little bit more here, a little further there and go back to normality' is shaking about this normality. Because it's a regularity with your values, with your visas we've reached where we've arrived. I think very soon you will see not only in Greece, but also in Europe and in America, the powers that they say are enough with this normality. There could be something much better and there would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u271	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. Maybe I need a little more than a minute. I have listened carefully to Mr Tsakalotos, and meanwhile I have had time to read a statement, which she has tabled along with Mrs Ahtsoglou, which says a number of things about Mr Stagiora's intervention. I would just like to say one word: 'Lie Seventh of Mr Stakoura: SYRIZA has never reached the targets'. And it continues: "Truly: SYRIZA has achieved all the budgetary objectives". Only in the debate that we were here, I was here, Mr Stagioras, with great clarity, referred to the development objectives, did he say that twice. 'You have not taken the development objectives, Mr Tsakalotes.' I have here and the Minutes that say so. And you come and tell him in cold blood - he's not in the House, a mistake in the House can understand - he's in a statement of normal, official, that he's lying by falsifying what he said? And then you say we're doing evidence abuse and we don't respect ourselves? What can I tell you? Let's go now to whether or not SYRIZA's interventions are summed up. I am referring to you in April: 'First We are staying upright I, full coverage of wages, insurance contributions and a gift from private sector workers' - only a measure - 'until the end of May and a grant of free professionals, EUR 8.5 billion'. Only a measure of EUR 8.5 billion, I do not read the rest, has other, non-refundable, EUR 3 billion aid, etc. One metre was 8.5 billion euros! What would happen June to September when the tourism came? Would you say we give the other workers both to the other businesses and to tourism, which then opens, we're not going to give anything? And that doesn't add up? Are we serious? And in the second wave of November, what would you say? The workers took EUR 8.5 billion in the first programme, but now we're not going to give you anything. We gave you in April, we gave, we gave! To be realistic. What would happen? I said it in my speech yesterday. First of all, I do not believe that you would take very different measures from us, although you would have escaped in the first phase. Then you would have been what happened in the period 2015-2019. What happened then? You have led the country unnecessarily to a memorandum. I would remind you that you have come with the Thessaloniki programme - you have forgotten - 14 euros, if I am not mistaken, or 12.5 I am not good at the quantifications of SYRIZA - and then you put 10 billion euros instead of the Thessaloniki programme. And you want to be trustworthy? And one last. I heard all the nice things you were saying about global capitalism and everything. You should know that the Greek Minister for Finance, as you know, because you have gone into this heavy position, has to talk to the markets. So if you go and say in the markets "you know, change the model, change the planet, change all of this, bring me some ten billion, which I have needs this year" I can assure you that they will leave you with the model and its change. Nice change of the planet, which is something that the Left has been talking about for a hundred years and we have seen exactly what it has achieved where it has been governed, but in practice the Minister of Finance must have credibility on the markets. And the reason why you did the pillow and yet you didn't have low interest rates with the pillow is that you didn't have credibility on the markets. That's the reality. And the reason why interest rates have fallen before the crisis is that this government is able to borrow and, because it will not follow a programme like yours, it will continue to have it, so that the country can come out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u273	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. You will notice, Mr President, that he did not support Mr Stakoura for the example I said on Friday evening and today on the radio. Has Mr Stourras misled or misled when he said that we have a recession better than Europe's average? He's misled and you're not saying anything. I was expecting an apology. Secondly, in a few words, he took back what Mr Scully said in the House. Now he's made another argument. It wasn't the argument he said here. The argument he said here is 'I sum up all the measures' as if there were no history to change these measures. Obviously, when the second time we do "We stay upright II" you hadn't spent what we had said to spend and then there was more money. But most importantly, from the mouth of Mr. Dogloukakis, we know the view of at least one piece of government about global inequality and those figures I read: "We can do nothing. In order to be reliable on the markets, all governments have to accept it. It does not matter that 0.1% of the population has this huge 25% of global wealth, because if we try to change it they will not lend us." That is not the Minister's argument, it is not a political argument. It is an argument for the power of financial institutions and stock exchanges. That's what we heard here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u275	Good. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, it makes me enormous impression when I prove to you with hard evidence that you say things that are completely inaccurate, misleading and you do so in cold blood, you go out and answer that "you too are tormenting the niggers".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u277	I spoke first. You answered. Are you watching how the conversation is?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u278	Listen, Mr Chakalote, if you seriously want to have a dialogue, you will first apologise for the cold misunderstanding you have made, and then we will discuss whatever else you want. As far as the markets are concerned, listen, the work of the Minister of Finance, you know that well, is much more serious than expressing his view on the planet in general. Of course, I have opinions on the planet and on the banking system and on many other things and I keep them on many occasions for myself because I care about the fate of those people who depend on us. We are not just here to tell our ideological obsessions and fantasies. We have to be here for the world, because if tomorrow morning there are no markets for Greece, no one will come to tell me "bravo you were talking about global inequality". They will come to tell me 'you have condemned your country'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u279	There are eleven colleagues left to speak today, and the circle will be closed here, after both Parliamentary representatives, Mr Mylonakis and Mr Pafilis speak. Because we did well, tomorrow we will start at 10 a.m. instead of 9.30' with the first speaker, Mr Stefanade. Therefore, the sooner you talk and keep the time, the better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u280	Our dentures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u281	Tomorrow at 10:00 to finish today. Tomorrow, Mr. Stefanades is the first. I mentioned it. The painting's gonna run out. They've already spoken two out of the thirteenth cycle. Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u282	We thought that the SYRIZA's main parliamentary representative would be somewhat different from Mr Tsipras and many of his colleagues. Finally, Mr Chakalote, you are consistent with your party. You're absolutely out of reality. He has restored what Mr Skeylakis said, and that is why - in the joint statement you have managed to make with Mrs Ahtsoglou - but also with the numbers she has given you. And I say once again, to be recorded, in the Chamber: Mr Stagioras spoke about the first quarter by saying that Greece was in 0.4 when the eurozone was in 3.3.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u283	Here I have it in text.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u284	It's about the nine-month period where Greece is in 8.5 and the Eurozone in 7.5...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u285	He doesn't say so. Will you apologize if you're wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u286	May I? Mr President, if I may speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u287	Let the President sit first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, you can put our colleague in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u289	You both succeeded at the time of the change in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u290	In particular, Mr Stavros said, and his language has "swallowed" to say it - and we all say it - that 7.5 and 8.5 are clearly about how the Greek economy is structured and tourism plays an absolute role. You see that France, Spain and Italy are much lower than we are. If you can't understand this, Mr. Skylakakis has explained it to you, Mr. Zavvos has explained it to you, Mr. Stagiras has explained it to you all the time, but you can't understand it. You probably understand that, but you want to create impressions. You accused the Treasury and the Prime Minister of being populists. This, indeed, will pass as the biggest joke. And you tried to identify Mr. Mitsotakis, the Ministry of Finance with these ministers, with these ministers, with Trump. The only one who can identify Greece with populism is Mr. Tsipras. This is what the world knows and has managed to get close to Mr. Trump yet to unite his populism. Two outlets, dear Mr Chakaloto, with your colleagues: Or change the way SYRIZA's opposition speech works or, if you have the courage to overthrow your leader to stop being populists. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] He told you quite rightly - and he put you in your place - that when someone takes over the Treasury, to run the economy of the country, he does not come into this House to air ideologically. In any case, however, you referred to a study of a house which is obviously a basis and a good representative of capitalism which you deny. We do not disagree with this at all and we fight from our ideological side, other than that of the true Left that sits right there, poverty and inequality in the world. But tell us, ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to do next, Mr Chakaloto, and tomorrow and your leader here: What have you done for five years to take away inequality and poverty in our country? What was your work? And if, in any case, this work was so important for four and a half years and you did not only aim to close the banks and do all that nonsense, then why did your people vote against if you hit inequality and poverty? And finally - because we have not heard from you again and I do not know whether we will hear from Mr Tsipras tomorrow - tell us that you have been unable, when you were running for five years, to implement this spectacular programme that will solve all the problems. Today, can you tell us a country in the world, a model applied to you that we want to copy? Or are you first in all the history of the world, in all the economic history, and have you discovered the magic recipe that you will apply to your sixth year of authority? And finally, you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u291	And finally, but you're closing up, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u292	I wanted to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u293	It's not right what's going on, but finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u294	I'm hanging up. I wanted to say this, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance for thirty seconds. It was the first budget on which so many specific figures and so many tables were tabled by the government. We have also tried to make it clear, all the side of the Coupling, that we believe in the public health system and believe in the public education system and all the efforts made by the government are to upgrade the ESS and upgrade the education system, in the way we understand it. We may disagree ideologically. You do not, however, have the right to say things without saying any arguments, without any substance behind them, which you cannot support and simply put retrievals of the type 'lacialism', 'neo-liberalism', when we prove to you what our positions are and when we fight with the bills in this House and then do what you come and say that it is your aim, namely to support the public health and education system and reduce inequality. We are judged by the people. And in the elections we were judged on our programme today by all polls we are being judged. You're the ones who get bored and immersed. We are up to credibility in trust. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u295	I was the unfortunate one in this case. Because I got up on the Step right when you were talking. But you should know, Mr Levane, that if I were in the Chair all the time, I wouldn't have allowed that. What for? There are the ministers here, they are well qualified and they could answer Mr Chakaloto. If a Minister speaks every time the parliamentary representatives rise to speak to each other, you will see that it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House. Let's move on. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u296	Colleagues and colleagues, the budget is being tabled at a major juncture. Health crisis, economic recession, the destruction of large parts of productive capital and work in this period. At this certain juncture we have a draft high-depressive budget and already increased deficits. For 2021 the overall deficit is estimated at EUR 11.5 billion or 6.7% of GDP, and the primary deficit is estimated at EUR 6.6 billion or 3.8% of GDP. And we will see, of course, whether these assessments will be verified. The budget should be regarded as the instrument for implementing and speeding up all that the government is promoting at the moment. It is neither an inappropriate nor an inappropriate and inadequate budget. The shrinking of public health and education structures, for example, is wrong management or ideological attachment. It is part of a conscious strategy to reduce public spending. This is a methodological tool for capital reconstruction. If the Pissaridis report is the ideological political framework, the budget aspires to be its technical tool for its implementation. Its main characteristics are, firstly, the limited costs of supporting the real economy. While the country will theoretically strive to reap from the consequences of the pandemic, expenditure forecasts for socio-professional groups, such as free professionals, scientists, wage earners, farmers, seasonal workers, employed in sectors such as tourism, focus, culture are weak. The budget also does not provide for small and medium-sized enterprises in most sectors which have been tested during the health crisis. Finally, it does not take care of the long-term unemployed, whom it leaves uncovered. Secondly, we have limited expenditure on recruitment and health and education infrastructure, both in relation to 2019 and 2020. Thirdly, while the government promises tax relief, the 2021 budget provides for an increase in tax revenues by 8.1%, i.e. about EUR 3.6 billion, which, of course, refers to an increase in taxation. It is obvious, however, that tax evasion will be surrounded by the cloak of growth incentives for protecting entrepreneurship and employment and thus for high incomes. Fourthly, the pension insurance is found in the budget priorities that are directly in line with the Pissaridis report. The central core here aims at privatising subsidiary insurance at first stage. Fifthly, expenditure on the management of the 2021 pandemic is expected to be significantly reduced in relation to 2020. This is based on the precarious assumption that the labour market and the economy will have returned to full normality in the afforestation - here, we must be almost categorical - forecasts for growth of 7.5% in 2021 compared with a recession of 8.2% in 2020. The recession rate for 2020 has already been disproved. The case in particular of the development of 7.5% is based on the assessment that investment growth will move to about 30%, which has never occurred since 1960 in the Greek economy in just one year. This health crisis is being exploited at international and national level by elite leaders as a siege of a multi-level financial restructuring in favour of capital. With the return of New Democracy to the governance of the country, those policies based on the peculiarisation by the holders of an increased share of the value produced with specific policies, by imposing structural changes in the labour market and in the social security sector that unprecedentedly degrade wage labour, by imposing new bankruptcy legislation providing for the proprietary property of low and medium-sized social groups, by intervention in the financial system in favour of systemic banks to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises and wagers, the implementation of existing permanent austerity policies, and by conscious political aiming to maintain unemployment at high rates. The increase in unemployment is not a political failure of the New Democracy, as a trivial criticism believes. It is a systematic policy that favours the submission of wage labour into capital. The 2021 budget does not attempt to regain the high level of unemployment. The majority of the unemployed are due to the refusal of capital to invest by employing a workforce in terms of non-interest in relation to its expected profit. Unemployment, whether as a threat of a worker's downgrading to the unemployed's backward army or as a real percentage, compresses employment conditions by scanning wages, economic rights, insurance rights, labour rights. Finally, a fundamental feature of the restructuring envisaged is the concentration of capital in favour of its derecognised and non-productive part and even of its documentary parts. The depreciation of parts of productive capital, which are in the hands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and free professionals, i.e. the large majority of them, is at the expense of all economic sectors. Amidst the pandemic, profit-driven small and medium-sized enterprises are swept away, either through controversial measures or with the absence and omission of measures, reducing the number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the medium term. Of course, these policies are also directed against wage earners, leaving 57% of the workers in the Greek economy employed in them unprotected. A characteristic example is the focus that has shown great stamina during the memoranda, but also small and medium-sized trade. With policies being pursued today, they are condemned to destructive decline, conducive to hundreds of thousands of jobs. The strategy of violent restructuring, if implemented, will destroy all of the small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece and attract most of the wage earner. The government's so-called development strategy is aimed at transforming employees and free traders into elastics, drastically reducing social costs and supporting economic interests regardless of their participation in a growth potential. The budget is a moment of a growth model that leads with mathematical accuracy to the depreciation of major sectors of the real productive economy. That is why the budget will be voted against not in Parliament, but in society, where the most important vote of confidence in parliamentary democracy is founded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u298	Wait a minute, let's get in touch, Mr. Chakaloto. Mr. Chakalotos will be given the floor for a minute. Then Mr. Katsafandos will speak, then Mr. Mylonakis will speak, and then Mr. Pafilis will speak. Here, Mr Chakaloto, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, I asked you for the floor to give Mr Lebanon a chance to apologize. Mr Lebanese questioned what Mr Stavros said. I'm asking him: would you excuse me if I brought you the Minutes? So I read from the Minutes of Friday: "Actually, the third quarter was an extremely bad quarter for the Greek economy". Explain why. "But again, at the level of nine months, Greece's image is better than the European average." That's what I said. You said he didn't say it. Here are the Minutes. If you have honesty, please apologize. Secondly, I would like to submit to the Minutes three facts...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Chakatte...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u301	I know, Mr. Papademiriou, that with the truth you have nothing to do with it. We have learned from your journalistic intervention for too many years. Don't interfere with me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u302	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u303	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u304	The truth about you is a foreign thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Chakaloto, Mr. Papadimitriou, please. Go on, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u306	I am presenting three tables on Mr Lebanese who say what SYRIZA did, because Mr Papadimitriou asked us what SYRIZA did about inequality. It shows here and the Gini index and how vulnerable households are to poverty. There is even an inequality index that shows how it improved in SYRIZA and what the disastrous result was between 2010 and 2014. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You can also apologize to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Dogman, he didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I would like to put forward in the Minutes, in order that there may be: the statement by Mr Tsakalotos "Lie Seventh: SYRIZA has never taken up the targets" and Mr Stakoura's statements, and then "SYRIZA has achieved all the financial objectives" and Mr Stakoira's statement "There has been no one year since 2015 and then falling within assessments and forecasts for development". It's clear and it turns out who's falsifying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u310	Good. Mr. Katsafandos has the floor for seven minutes. Mr Mylonakis will then be given the floor. Mr. Catafados, come quickly, because they'll still take your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the second budget of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy, a budget that is perfectly realistic, which, first and foremost, keeps the hope alive and society upright, under these very difficult conditions, which prevail worldwide. I saw this ping pong with Mr Tsakalotos - of course, Mr Tsakalotos leaves - and his anxiety to tell us how much SYRIZA was supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. But you know, middle-class champions were SYRIZA in the four and a half years that were in power. And it would not be unpleasant to tell us that, because of the memoranda, we had to impose all these taxes on the small and medium-sized ones. But as Mr Tsakalotos himself has said, he has done so from a class choice! So he chose SYRIZA to exaggerate medium and medium-sized strata according to the Minister's statement, because that was ideologically identical with his principles. You know what, ladies and gentlemen? This budget here is a special budget. It is a budget that looks at meeting the needs and problems that this pandemic has left and the economic consequences of this huge health crisis in combination with the development conditions that need to be launched for the next day. And because I hear a lot of things about the pillow left by SYRIZA, it is not your success, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the success of the work of the Greek people by this extreme overtaxation is. While, on the contrary, the Recovery Fund and the sums that our country will receive, whether as subsidies or as loans, is a success of the Greek Government, because in proportion to that we have received much more than the other European countries. I heard Mr Tsakalotos, who spoke for 15 minutes here without making a proposal. A sentence didn't make! One proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, he wanted to tell us that SYRIZA would be more socially sensitive. But to see how he is more socially sensitive, when in 2018 we had one of the smaller percentages of GDP. You have just spent EUR 3.8 billion on health, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. This is what you have put into the 2018 budget. Can we talk about others? Can we talk about 22% income tax at 10,000 euros? Who were these for? Who did you crash then? Who was all this extreme overtaxation? To the rich ones: Or to all those who had great difficulty trying to cope and make a living? Shall we sit down and discuss how this government currently raises the preferential benefits? He's giving 600m euros to the OPEKA. So, what social sign differently would you have in relation to us? Can we talk about the defense? Shall we sit down and say about the obligations that we have in this very critical period to shield our country? This government is giving 2 billion euros. And you come and say you won't vote on the expenditure for the Ministry of National Defence. It is disgraceful, ladies and gentlemen, at this time, that you do not even vote on the expenditure on defence. So shall we sit down, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss transport? I heard Mrs Ahtsoglou on Friday as rapporteur for the bill with a look of prosecutor accusing us of deceiving public structures. Four and a half years, what have you done, ladies and gentlemen? What great work did you go on? Can I tell you what you did to Piraeus for the subway? You bounced a city. It didn't go any further, neither the subway nor the tram. Did you even take a four and a half-year bus that caught you out of stress about how Greek citizens stack? Neither a single bus nor a single driver intake in urban transport. That is the reality and that reality will be taking over you, ladies and gentlemen. Let's sit down and talk about who the architect was and who cut off the NSA? I return to Mrs Ahtsoglou because she was the shadow minister of labour, and we only condemn Mr Katrugalo. Mrs. Ahchioglu was the secret Minister of Labour, everyone knows it. What did Mrs. Ahchioglu and Mr. Katrugalos do? They've abolished the C.E.S.S.A. You say 'we had agreed on it'. And where was your "surprising" negotiation to cancel? What did Mrs. Ahchioglu and Mr. Katrugalos do next? They evaporated the pensioners' subsidiary. Isn't that the reality? So where is your social sensitivity in this regard to the fact that at this so difficult time it has given so much billions to support the unemployed in order to be able to support the workers, support the businesses, support the National Health System? Did someone tell you we're perfect? That we don't make mistakes? Only the dead make no mistakes. But the effort? The fact that we are much ahead and much better than the other European countries? We sit down and say how many IF beds are. Yes, we handed you a bad National Health System, and then you deliver us an even worse one. That's the reality. So let us say things with their name in this Chamber, because there are too many of our fellow citizens who are fighting. And this is what you come to exploit right now, what dominates all over the world, not only in Greece. Everywhere. What dominates? Anguish and insecurity. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Your change you had played to delay the vaccine coming. The vaccine is coming for all mankind. Your change is currently playing in the hope that there may be new indignant and new circle of memorials. But with that hope you will stay. We're here to fight, fight. To fight for the good of the entire Greek society, because we believe that by reducing taxes this country can be friendly, attracting businesses, attracting investment to reduce unemployment. This is the struggle that we are doing for an ecologically friendly environment, so that we can create these conditions that are necessary for the Greeks to believe in his homeland, for the Greeks to stay here, fight and be proud of this country. That is our purpose and that is what we will do. And I am glad that we will implement it two hundred years after the Greek Revolution began. And if some in here believe and dream, as I told you before, memoirs, you'll stay with that appetite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u312	And now the parliamentary representative of the party has the floor Greek Solution Mr Mylonakis for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, this is the second time I have been involved in a debate on the state budget. Honestly, it is a great honour for any parliamentarian to participate in such a sacred process that the Greek people, a people who are not only those who live in our country but also those who are abroad, have left, the family, who have assets in the country, have relatives, have children and are interested in it. Since Friday, I have watched most of the colleagues and ministers of government carefully. But I will start with this because I have seen too much fuss between SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Are you quarreling who made most of the mistakes? At the same time as we are talking about the state budget, about the billions, at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have shameful images today, after the roof collapsed and the chambers were flooded at the Hospital of Chios. I will present it to the Practical Ministers, Mr Pylakakakis, because this oath, talking about billions, and at the same time not having hospitals, and the roofs collapse, and the workers with sponges will go to wipe out the waters and waters that have gone to surgery, shames all of us. Mr. Georgiadis is gone. Before I begin to enter the budget and certain points, in some areas, since I believe that our special rapporteur, Mr Villards, and our special speaker, Mr Heitas, have analysed them, I shall say this. Mr. Georgiadis, you're out of here now. You say more in the morning, and you say more in the afternoon. That's how we were used to it. Now it is becoming even shorter what you say. In the morning, Mr. Papathanase went out at 10:30 and said that they didn't open the aesthetic institutes, the manicures, the pedicures, or the night bars. And at 12:30 Mr. Petchas says they're opening. What's the matter with both? Are they opening or not opening? Government whatever it is. Government of the joke! Is it possible for the Minister responsible to come out and say: 'They do not open up these shops' and after two hours the Government's representative will say: 'Anoyun'? Yes, sir. That goes too. Click away! Click in your eyes! What's "click away"? Does the lady know - Tassia in the village "click away"? What are you doing? He failed. Mr. Georgiadis, where are you? Go away. You'll hear them for good. What's "click away"? You went to make the citizens courier. You've got them. Because the couriers, you, the wicked, the greedy professionals - SYRIZA were cowards, they were amateurs, you are professionals - you say, "I don't do the courier world!" So the other one goes to 'click away' and says: 'I don't take the product, I want to try it.' There's been tests on the road. Shoes were testing, trousers were testing, sliding sliding, trying anything you want! Supermarket. They can, he says, sell toys after the games were opened. Yes, sir. That makes sense. Very nice. But the world that's going to order the game, Mr. Ministers, can't pick up the game from inside. After he's ordered it and pays it, he's gonna have to go out, he says, from the supermarket, wait in line to throw his game away. But can you do such things to the Greek people? How much longer are you gonna make fun of him? In other words, our logic is confusing. This thing can't be done. Arlubes! Now we're going to something serious. Stop the fines. Fine of 1,500 euros in a parish, in a church, Mr. Lovedro, in Coroppi. Great church, nine people inside. But that's forbidden. As soon as the priest and commissioners came out, they're arrested by the police and cut 1,500 euros in the temple and 300 euros in the newcomer. Very well. Tell us "close the churches. We don't want, my child, the Greeks to believe anywhere." You messed with the hierarchs, too. And the Most Reverent Messiah, whom I know personally, comes out and "shoots you" and well does you! Other serious: EAFRD and IRRD. Record dead. We're talking about dead people, we're not talking about numbers. The EGE recorded three thousand four hundred seventy two dead the other day, and the HEDIA of six hundred eighty two. What's the matter? What terrorism is it? Is the EAFRD becoming the case the other day or the EAFRD? We're talking about people, we're not talking about numbers. What are you doing? Is it possible to do such things? And Mr Panayotakopoulos comes out, the Vice President of the EGE and says: "Look at seeing, there really were mistakes. Others wrote ERAY and mores wrote HICP." Shame on you! The most serious thing before I start talking about the budget. Two Greek Muslims were arrested in Rhodes for spying. These people confessed, government ministers. They confessed to doing espionage against Greece. They went to the D.A. and as a magician they were released. They've been spying? Is this the serious country? Did they spy against our country and let them go to the Turkish consulate in Rhodes? That's a disgrace! Tell us that we are a protectorate of Germany, that we are not a free state. Erdogan called and told Merkel: "Give the order you easily give him the Mitsotakis' command and he hears you, let them go." Unless Erdogan took Mitsotakis himself and said to him: "Look at you, let them go, don't be a mess here" and terrified as you are from the Turks do what you do. And that's right. Good for you! Two new NAVTEXs are calling for the demilitarisation of the islands, and since the sanctions have never come, saying that they will come and claim the sanctions against the Turks, the 'ORUC REIS' will take a walk where it did, and the drill will come and I am sorry, but I will say that Mrs Bakoyannis, who is an experienced politician, said: What should be our position towards Turkey? Greece is chosen with its neighbours. She talks to her neighbors, but she doesn't change positions. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! To decide The Hague. What would The Hague decide for? What if the Aegean is divided? What if the islands are to be demilitarized? What if the "ORUC REIS" or the drill is coming to seven or six miles outside Rhodes and Kastelorizo drilling? And because you're looking at me, you guys at SYRIZA, we're about to criticize you for being with you. They'll have you run a collapsor. And you know it very well. You'll be together in the summer. That's all you can do to keep the world from being tall, too. So let us go to the budget to say five things which I would like to stress in some areas, particularly in the area of national security, defence and immigration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u314	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u315	The Minutes will be distributed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u316	How did I not hear? What I said about SYRIZA? Don't worry, and you in the game will be. Don't worry at all. We've got comeco-tragic situations to live. You still don't understand where Erdogan leads Greece. You still haven't figured it out. When I said four months ago, five months from this Step that Erdogan's mission and the objective are demilitarisation and division, no one was speaking. You thought I called it that. Know that what Mylonakis or Velopoulos have been telling you, mainly geopolitical and geostrategic, because we have been following the issues for many years, is exactly the same as we say. So let's go to the budget. Mr President, it is a budget which is uncertain, lame and inappropriate, a budget - it has been accepted by the Ministry itself - which is most likely to change once and twice. We were telling you the same thing last year about this year's budget. But this year, you hid behind the coronary pandemic. You claim that in 2021 you will take care of everything. It reminds me of the "money there are" of the Papandreou George, whom you applaud, gentlemen of the New Democracy, the day before yesterday, for coming here. Mr. Papandreou is here to talk about the culture and the ancients that we need to take out to lend them! And you applauded him. It's okay. You're the same. You've colluded. Mr. Levane, what I tell you is the way it is. There's a tourist over here, with a jacket, etc. And you applauded him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u317	Whoa, whoa, whoa!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u318	Get it back!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u319	I apologize, Mr. Loverdo. I'll take it back. You don't have to. I'll take it back right away. Don't worry. What am I supposed to say? The Greek people what they see outside is the issue. Let me go. So in 2010, when we entered, ladies and gentlemen, with a plan in the memorandum, the debt was 126% of GDP. Today we have 208% of GDP, but we will make it! Wages and pensions were almost twice as high as this year and will be next year. Private debt then, in 2010, is negligible. Today it is 145% of GDP. Isn't that right, Mr. Villardo? Yes, sir. Since the fall in the property of the Greeks we have lost about EUR 500 billion, half a trillion euros. Scaramaga Shipyard. Where's Mr. Georgiadis? From the EUR 15 million and not even EUR 1 million give for the Scaramaga shipyards. I'll take it, 1 euro! I want to get the Scaramaga shipyards! Is it possible to say such things? Selling out everything? Ministry of National Defence: The Greek settlement will only agree on the budget and the increase in expenditure - I believe all parties will agree - on the Ministry of Defence. It's not much. I would remind you that since 2005, with a peak in 2017, we have spent the least money on defence - around EUR 3,02 billion - in all other years, unfortunately, under the responsibility of all parties, we have neglected the defence industry. And that is why we should have done something at the first time when we realized that our homeland could no longer buy just armaments without making them. In the 1980s and 1990s, we had a terrible defence industry, which was going from the good to the best and suddenly, from the end of the 1990s, from Mr Simitis, and then he stopped working, working, working, and as a result the whole defence industry had three thousand, twenty-six people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Mylonakis, a little more, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u321	Yes, Mr. President. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u322	Very little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u323	The costs of the Ministry of Defence must therefore be voted for, because it is imperative to replace the material. Right now we have a huge problem, ladies and gentlemen. You will allow me, because I have been in the Armed Forces for many years, to say that every medium when a damage occurs or when the chain of spare parts stops and the flow stops, we want three times the money to pay. I would remind you here has brought the new structure of the Armed Forces and the 15-year programme - that is, this 15-year-old, that is, that is, that Greece will have a dissuasive effect of EUR 63.2 billion. The last 15 years were 24 billion euros. But it broke. So after it broke, we'll pay it three times. It is not possible to say that we want to take other aircraft. The Rafah will come. What happened to the Mirage 2005 that we gave the EUR 250 million for spare parts? The Minister will tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u324	Come on, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u325	Is the flow of spare parts started? They started flying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u326	We agreed something.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u327	All right, Mr. President, just a minute. Some Members have spoken seven, eight minutes. I'm speaking as a parliamentarian. I won't be late. I would like to say that we all have to vote in favour of the spending of the Ministry of National Defence. Immigration: Mr Mitarakis and Mr Koumotsakos came here and told us that the asylum committee is the second best committee in the world. What do you say, son? If this is the best committee worldwide, what have these tens of thousands of foreign illegal immigrants have you brought them here and scattered them? Come down to the bottom of Patisia where I'm staying to take you a little stroll and see what's nice it is. It says '60% must be returned, it is not entitled to asylum'. Yes, sir. And where's that 60 percent? He's not answering me. When's that 60 percent going away? He says, "What do you want? Shall we put it in a box, send it to DHL? What do you think? Shall we put it on a boat to drown it?" So that's a minister's answer? We've ruined society. You didn't do anything. Citizens' Protection Ministry: I want to say that it needs a lot of work. Expenditure must be increased, that we can do serious police, with educated police officers, with serious training, with serious equipment so that we can move forward, ladies and gentlemen. Greeks and Greek women can't stand it anymore. They can't stand it anymore, they've gone crazy. Be careful, because the New Democracy as long as it is alone will be hit by society as a whole. Of course, soon - I told you again - he'll be in a meeting with SYRIZA, as he had done in the past with PASOK, and he'll probably confuse things again. The Greek Solution is voting against this uncertain and obscene budget. It only votes in favour of the expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Mylonakis, you will also have a right of dentistry tomorrow too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u330	The Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u331	The rapporteurs and spokesmen of the JRC have raised all issues in general and in particular, as far as the budget is concerned, but also in general. Of course, we did not get a reply from the government and it is clear that we are two worlds. We are the ones who are supporting the overthrow of a barbaric system and you are the others who are supporting its service and fighting about who is the best manager. That's the truth, and it's not theoretical. It's been proven now. Mr. Chakaloto, you've ruled now the masks have fallen, in general. I would like to raise a few points. First of all, what is repeated once again by all the other parties is that we are living in an unprecedented global health crisis. That is right, that is, that we have a global health crisis - it is a fact - which you say is also responsible for the economic crisis. And the government and other parties, regardless of the criticism they imply, say that the vaccine will bring us to normality. That's a great delusion, unless we say what we mean regularity. What does the Communist Party of Greece say? We say that this global pandemic has indeed been unprecedented in recent years. No one's questioning it. It acted as a catalyst - and this is the essential one - in the manifestation of the capitalist crisis in terms of its time and depth. The deepest causes - and I am addressing all those who do 'the duck', you allow me to speak folkly - are others. This is a classic capitalist crisis that we anticipated and anticipated from the past. It's a crisis of overcompensation. They have gathered unscathed money that cannot be invested because they do not guarantee large percentages of profit. It is, I would say, a classic case of the capitalist crisis that I imagine everyone perceives, regardless of what they say about how we can get out of it. Is it arbitrary what we say? Or is what we say is a capitalist crisis and that the coronary brought it faster and deeper? Let's see: Have we had negative rates on a global level? Yes or no? The government is celebrating and I'm talking about the ministers. What's a negative interest rate? It means capitalist crisis. Do we have borrowing and debt, public and private, three times greater than world GDP? Yes or no? What does that mean? Economic deadlocks. Private and public debt at world level is three times greater than it is produced than GDP. Do we have a slowdown in the economy and the Greek and European Union and in other countries? Yes or no? We have and we have before the coronary. The industrial production index at the level of the European Union and the euro area has fallen since 2017? Was it the coronary's fault in 2017? Or isn't that true? Mr. Hatzidakis, is it true or not? It's true, nobody's questioning them. We ask you "weakly": Do you not know this? We imagine - and so it is - that there are abilities - other for which they work - and economists and analysts. Besides, the most serious bourgeois analysts in the world have described them. Why are you loading everything on the coroner? Here's the question. In order to acquit the capitalist system, in order to have the bipartite confrontation that we have lived again - mainly bipartite, but not only - to rediscover the work that we have experienced with the memoranda. New version! What were you talking about then? What did SYRIZA say? It's the management. It's PASOK. It's New Democracy's fault. Not that they're not. He said these are the causes of the crisis, it's corruption. Do you remember the ribs? That's what you said, isn't it? Inside the capitalist world there are corruption and lamoyas. But was that the cause of the crisis then? Of course not. It was a capitalist crisis. It was a crisis, which gave the capital a global opportunity to take measures, which he has been asking for many years to be able to come out unscathed and to be able to load it on the Greek people. Is it true or not what we say or are it fantasies? Probably not, they're fantasies of all of you who say that capitalism can be done. It can't be done. All management models have been dropped so far. And here is the question, and I say that we are reliving the same work. What you are trying to do now with the coronary - we are not questioning, I will say below, that it has a huge impact on the economy and, of course, on people's lives - is to fall back, to deceive, to mock the people that there can be a philosophical management and that it is the fault of those who are managing it now, namely the New Democracy. Not that it's not the fault. Of course it is, but it is consistent with its own policy and ideological concept, which is of course anti-popular and largely inhumane. What do you use as a argument? And that's big ostrichism. You say, "But what to do, the same is done in all the countries of the world. All governments do the same." Thank you very much. What are governments? Socialists? Communist? They serve capitalism regardless of what they're called. Yes or no? And that's exactly why they're all taking the same measures. So Podemos and socialist Sanchez in Spain don't take exactly the same measures and even worse than they do in Greece? Why? Why do you use this argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u332	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u333	But, what you're saying now, you're a doctor, and anyway, we can be honest with each other. Hundreds of dead. It's just the same politics. If he has some minor variations, they don't change the substance. Small variations are regional, not strategic. I'll explain it later. So this argument is deaf. I won't tell the example of Cuba, your man told you. With the exclusion, with the embargo, everything, because it's just because there's still the perception that first man and the economy towards man, not the profits he's earned and really smashed the coronary with the measures he took and they're in huge difficulties. What proved to be the case now? And here you are the lawyers, right-wing and left-wing singers of capitalism itself. What has the pandemic proved dramatically, with hundreds of thousands of dead all over the world? How many are there? A million? I've lost the bill. It proved that the account of the powerful public health systems collapsed. We have been "frozen" all these years that we have to be like Europe. Yes or no? That we have to be like America with powerful health systems. Is it true or not? Is that true? Yeah. What happened to the pandemic? Is it true you were telling us? It is. You said we had to get to Europe's level, and so on. Finally, your standards proved to have collapsed like paper towers. And not only this proved to be the great inhumanity of this capitalist system. So they have now collapsed. You stand up for them, regardless of whether the people still don't see them. You had the Nordic model for big health systems Sweden, etc. What happened? Hell of the dead and sick. Why? Because they were deprived by their health systems, because they were next to the Soviet Union and for other reasons. These have been decimated. Thirty million have been cut - I have no time to tell you the figures - from the social programmes, I mean health, education, etc., in recent years especially since 1990 and after 2000. So what did it turn out? Turns out the system's barbaric. Why? Because it has health goods, like other social goods. Health, merchandise. What does that mean to the extreme of what it means? Whoever's alive, who's not dead. Trump comes out in a week and millions of people die. Why? With the monoclonal antibodies. That's what they say. Is that true? Scientists say it because we don't make the doctor or the scientist. They call it. Are the possibilities available in science today enormous and are hampered by why? Because what guides the economy capitalist is profit. Is this an exaggeration of what we say? Is it weird? Is it anything out of reality? Vaccines. To see what system you are defending, and the people must draw conclusions. What dominates world wide what is it? It is the partnership of companies to get the vaccine out faster, to have a combination of vaccines, etc.Huh? Oh, no. Loss competition. Isn't that right, Prime Minister? Who will sell more, because we are talking about trillions of euros. In another society, which we envision, it is the people's cooperation for the good of the people and not for who will make more profits. And thank you for being here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u334	And Putin's selling it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u335	Putin's a capitalist too. What is it? Capitalism has Russia, it's not a Soviet Union. Do not remove scientifically. Putin's a tough chapter. He serves it, too. What is it? The second side that shows the barbarity of the system is the management of the crisis itself. The governments and the Greek means of direct experience and we are talking about it are raising national consensus in order to deal with it. At the same time, however, it creates protocols - not only here but everywhere - which are adapted to the needs of business groups. She literally deafed, literally wrote in her old shoes the appeals of health, trade unions, all the actors of the mass movement for the measures she had to take. Is that too much? What did we tell you? Workplaces? Hell. What did the trade unions and sanitaries say to you? Support for the public health system. What did they tell you? Mass means of transport? Farm you bought. And this now appears in the second wave of the coronary. What do recent investigations say? Now they've been published, these days that they're not from the JRC, and they have nothing to do with it. They say that workplaces have been converted into supertransmission sites - precise words and by scientists who are not part of the JRC - because no substantial protection measures are taken. So we ask - is the Prime Minister here too - to tell us how many checks have you done in workplaces all this time? How many fines have you imposed? How many have you punished? There is terrorism, they have symptoms and they don't dare say it so they won't be thrown away. You don't know them? They're denounced by unions, specifically for businesses. You were talking about the crisis in Thessaloniki. You went to see the buses, which carry the workers this morning - private I mean - in factories in Sindo and elsewhere, what health measures did they have? One on each other. Did you suddenly enter a company without notice, see what measures they keep in relation to masks, disinfections, and all this? Not ever. Why? Do not sabotage the production process, do not reduce the profits of the capitalists. And how much will it reduce? Instead of 2 million euros, 1,5 million euros will be made. Cursed poverty, damned literally! They'll be hungry. They're going out to Omonia to beg. So here's how the government dealt with them. The second issue. You're talking about national confession. Really? So tell us, does the worker have the popular layers with the capitalist, with the wealthy, just to say it just to face the pandemic? Same possibility he has to take precautions? Where will the worker get them when he goes to work in the buses, the subway and elsewhere, and when he works in conditions without any protection, when they literally stacked like sardines when he's in the workplace unprotected? They don't have three hundred and four hundred houses...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u336	Mr. Paphie, you need to be briefed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u337	Yes, Mr President, I will finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u338	You have a dentist tomorrow, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u339	I'll take her today, I don't want her tomorrow. That's what I'm usually talking about. The previous one spoke eighteen and a half minutes, I have witnesses. Once I talk, I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u340	Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u341	Where do you live the truth? I'll just describe how a family is. The man works for a job, the woman teleworking. They have two kids. I'll describe it to you with two variations. One is kindergarten and the other goes to school. How is this mother going to work at home with the teleworking? Do you know how long it takes? Fourteen and fifteen, 'cause he has to look at the kids. Is there social protection? Oh, no. Let's assume she has a kid in college and one in high school, and she works telework too. What's going on all day? Is this a home? Is she alive in front of the computer all day? Why couldn't you open schools, children's stations, everything, with what students and others asked for, with fifteen people? Why? Don't you have any buildings? You do. The municipalities have too much, but you don't give money. So, then, what national confession can we talk about, when one is in chaos and hell, and the other can enjoy everything, because he has both the housekeeper and the maid, he has the driver, he has five six cars and a thousand and five hundred square meters. What ethnic homogeneity? What does that mean? So should the simple world, the producer of wealth, be subjected to what lives in this society today? We don't have any money, he says, for hires and buses. Really? You don't have one? Do you know what the SCIENCE report says, a scientific journal, says? That it's a public transport sanitary bomb, globally, and Greece. Why didn't you? But you're feeding the business groups. Is it, then, or is it not a hard class policy to manage this health crisis as well? We say it is. And it is neither a question of ruthlessness of the government nor of lack of plan, as SYRIZA and KINAL say. The New Democracy is consistent - we recognize it - in its policy. It is a classic choice, it is an option to support capitalist gain both within the pandemic and at the same time to break popular interests. Finally, it says 'to turn the crisis into an opportunity'. Because we've been here for years, Prime Minister, the same thing happened with the memorials. What were you all talking about? Converting the crisis, which was a storm, scanning, what the world won, lost it in one night - in an opportunity. Yes, sir. We ask: Opportunity for whom? The workers? Did they get any increases with the memos? Is their life improved? We now have a repetition of the same work, an opportunity for business groups. And because the Prime Minister is here, we'll say the following. What have you changed in your legislative work? Lockdown the world, the organization of legislative work and the decisions of the Government, its policy. We don't say he was out of politics. Everyone was in their homes, the world was desperate, and in the House we went crazy in the bill! Couldn't you postpone anything? Did you have to take the savage steps? We've been through this, they're familiar. It's not mysteries, we're talking about arguments. Couldn't you keep it? And your bills had a double reading, rather a double purpose. One was a crackdown on labour rights, and the other was gifts, land, air and sea to big capital. That was all this time and if you want, if we had time, we would analyze them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u342	We don't have time anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u343	I'm done, Mr. President. Just one thing to raise. The budget is the breakfast for normality. Well, I'm gonna use a word that I don't believe her. But, athemophobic, in a health crisis, do you reduce expenditure on health at EUR 635 million? These are incredible things. Such cynicism? This is done in the pandemic, which will not be over easily, at least before May, by what the assessments say. In economic terms - not to say - impoverishment, but with the huge burdens the people have, you come and increase taxes to EUR 3.5 billion, of which EUR 2.5 billion are indirect, that is, the most anti-grassy taxes? For another is a packet of cigarettes - I wish not to smoke - for a worker who takes 500, 600, 700 euros and for one who has 10,000 and 20,000 and 30,000. Are you increasing the most anti-Hallian taxes while all of Greece is kneeled? That's what I'm saying. It's breakfast. I would also like to reply to Mr Kyranakis who forgot to tell us something. Whatever you pay, you get. But who pays? 96.3% of tax revenue is paid by employees and people. Those who have more than 50% of GDP participate with 7% and enjoy all the rest. So this is the one-way policy - we have no objection - which you are following, but it is for capital, it is for wealth. It is for them, Mr Chakalote, - and I am sorry, but with the courage I say - that you have reduced their taxation, as you have reduced taxation on distributed profits, from 15% to 10%, and New Democracy has 5% and you have financed development - in or out of import - programmes to feed groups. However, a one-way road for workers is overturning. The system doesn't go. You cannot tell us that three people in the world, who have the greatest wealth, are not paying taxes. You cannot tell us that a vast minority owns almost 50% of world GDP and creates the impression that it will change. The road is the path of overthrow and that will be done. It's the way to wrestling to distract or escape what's remained. We'll be on this road. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr Pafile, for using his dentistry as well. It is now called in Stepma, by the Government, the Minister for Development, Mr.Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, many years, happy Christmas, good holidays. Let's not forget the days we're in. Mr. Chakatus, you must have felt very strange that you have been accused of lowering taxes! That was really impressive. It would sound almost a joke for the Minister of Finance, who literally tempted the taxes of every Greek and every Greek woman! Mr Tsakalotos, I would like to have a little attention here. Previously, spend the three quarters of your speech trying to prove that Mr.Stikoras lied, that he made a mistake as to what he had said in his speech about the average of Greece's vexation in relation to the Eurozone and that he deliberately misled the Greek people, plus all the others you said and repeated them in your interviews and what you said about Mr. However, I was very struck by the fact that you were slapping so much a matter that you have swallowed the big one. So, let's go talk about the big one now? Not only in one speech you, but SYRIZA, Tsipras, Ahcioglou, you, Janakopoulos, Vitsa and all SYRIZA Members, what have you been telling us for eight months unstoppable? That Greece was the only country - it says - that had entered the recession before the coronary crisis. This, Prime Minister, was SYRIZA's main fundamental argument regarding his criticism of the Mitsotakis Government. Where was this argument made by Mr. Tsakalotou? In view of the provisional data issued by ELSTAT, as compared to the third quarter of 2019, we had a decrease of 0.7% in the fourth quarter of 2019 from the third and had a growth of 1% compared to the fourth quarter of 2018. So since ELSTAT had made out in its provisional evidence that in the fourth quarter of 2019, compared to the third quarter, we had less than 0.7%, Tsakalotos, the honest, the good professor, who does not mislead the Greek people and said that "Greece is the only country that entered the recession". Mr. Chakaloto, did you read the final details of ELSTAT? What do the finals say? Minus 0.7%, compared to the third quarter of 2019, was finally finalised in plus 0.5%. You guys come here to apologize for what you've been saying for eight months? You, Mr Tsakalotos, said that we were going to recession and were the only ones to do it throughout Europe, relying on a provisional element, when the final element came out and it turned out to be true what we were saying, that we had growth and in the last quarter of 2019, you asked for an apology? And now you want to give us lessons about Stacura and whether he said that or said the other thing? Aren't you ashamed? So, all of SYRIZA's account, what you said in the House eight months, with ELSTAT's announcement, was thrown into the trash can, as did your ideas when you ruled. Why? Why are you in a hurry? We are now going to the 2020 recession. When the Commission came out in April and took the forecast for the 2020 recession - we were still in the first quarantine, we did not know that the second one was coming - and it came out that Greece would have the biggest recession in 2020 throughout the Eurozone. Do you remember that? You then received a bithyramic press release signed by Nikos Papapas, saying: "Dresh, Greece has the biggest recession in the Eurozone, according to the Community". When the Commission's forecasts changed - we said that we would have 8% recession in 2020 and insisted on it - did you get any comment as a SYRIZA on the improvement of the Commission's forecasts? Oh, no. What did you do as a party? When the data of the third quarter came out, where Greece, in fact, had the biggest recession at quarter level throughout the Eurozone, you made it a headline in "AGEY", almost celebrated. Tell me, Mr. Chakaloto, to see how serious you are. Didn't you know to say to "AYI" that it would be the miracle of the miracle if Greece didn't have the biggest recession in the Eurozone in the third quarter? Or do you, the former Minister of Finance and Finance, learn from me that Greece was the only eurozone country that had the main part of its economy, namely tourism, focused on a quarter, which forced it to be condemned in this quarter, because of the coronary, to have the biggest recession throughout the Eurozone? Was there one of us who believed that we would not have the biggest recession in the Eurozone in the third quarter, or was there any Eurozone country that had this common feature? I'll show you something, if you like numbers. I am presenting here for my colleagues, Mr President, the provision of the Budget Office of the Parliament of the State of Mr Koumentakis, who, in the newspaper 'The Authors', has made provision, Mr Psulakakis, for what would come out of the third quarter. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So Mr Koumentakis rightly says that "because of the forced decline in GDP due to tourism, Greece will have a higher recession in the third quarter than in the second quarter". This is the provision of the Parliament's Budget Office. What has finally been proven by ELSTAT's announcements, Mr. Chakaloto? That Greece in the third quarter, what we all knew would be a bad quarter, had a better performance than the second quarter. We went comparatively better than predictions. Why? Because the Greek economy lasted. Why now did the Greek economy last, Mr. Chakaloto? Did she last alone? The government didn't do anything to keep it? Were we passing here? I was listening to Mr Pafilis, who said about the big chapter and this 'casset' the communist one that the whole world is bored of. This government is the government of big capital? Have you heard anything about the repayable advances and that in the last four hundred thousand small and micro-enterprises took money? Have you heard of the measures taken to suspend workers and pay their wages by the State? Have you heard of the suspension of debts? For the non-refundable portion of the deposit? All this takes the big capital and big business or does all the businesses in Greece, even the very small ones? To know who we are here in the JRC, this government, we, are the continuation of the popularity. We are with the small, small and backbone of the Greek economy. And now we're practically supporting him more than anyone else. I come a little bit on the matter of the day. I heard it from Mr. Chakaloto. I have also seen a statement by Mr Tsipras on twitter, where he talks about 'click away'. I would like to ask colleagues to adopt the Greek terminology 'delivery outside'. We are losing a lot of money in the coronary, we are unfortunately losing human lives, we are not losing our language. So I come to what our decision is, because it was taken, on what criteria and what really happens. Unfortunately, Mrs Gennamata said that the method - says - of 'delivery outside' is a choice of government to favour the large and to kill the small. Is that what you think we're doing? Is that why this decision was made? So let's go get them in turn. First of all, with regard to its major decision not to operate retail trade within the holidays. When we announced it on Friday I would accept that there were some in the country who might still have some doubts as to whether the decision was correct or not. Do you know what has happened since Friday to today in terms of whether or not the shops should open? We have the extraordinary decision of the Federal Republic of Germany, which has led Germany from tomorrow to total lockdown, with the agreement of sixteen Federal Prime Ministers and a curfew of more than fifteen kilometres from your home. We have the decision of the Netherlands, which was announced three hours before this debate, which puts the Netherlands in total lockdown with the shops closed until 10 January. We have the decision that was announced an hour ago in London, where we all saw the scenes at the 'HARRODS' and were shaking - and these scenes played a role in the final decision made by the Prime Minister not to open up - it regains its hard lockdown. I'm doing all the above in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What for? For where the retail trade opened up had an automatic huge rise in cases and now everyone is trembling - and I hope that they will not happen to them - the so-called 'third wave'. But you did not say a good thing that our government, which you have been blaming all day as the government of big capital and capitalism, has made a brave decision, based on the protection of human life, of course, knowing that this will have a very great economic cost. Because we are not foolish not to understand the damage suffered by shops. What, however, is the criterion that he has pre-supposed? Protection of human life. And we did, in fact, first and foremost now others follow, just as it happened in March and April. I wish this had not been the case in Europe. We're not happy with someone who's in trouble. Unfortunately, however, it turns out that we were right and should not open up retail trade. So since we have come to the conclusion that the retail trade should not be opened, we had to find an alternative way to avoid a stop to trade in the country. Why was there a trade stop? Because during the quarantine, ladies and gentlemen, shops may be closed, but e-commerce operates, telephone orders work, not, of course, to the extent that the physical operation of a shop would function, but to a sufficient extent. To understand the sizes, in the first quarantine, the day he had the largest online, electronic and telephone order, the record in packages moved through courier companies was a hundred and fifty thousand packages. However, courier operations were organised during the summer, obviously some businesses with a better e-shop - not all of them, but I will come to that immediately afterwards - and we have reached the quarantine in November, Mr President, on the day two hundred and fifty thousand packages for delivery, that is, 100 thousand more than the March and April record. Steady! This was the result of the better organization of courier companies. But when we entered December and the holiday gifts began, do you know how far they arrived? Five hundred thousand packets a day. The system stopped somewhere. The courier companies have stopped receiving each other. Today, and the last company still operating, he announced he would only accept 50% of the orders. Should we not, then, find a way to move through an alternative channel without jeopardising public health, these orders, so as to reduce the burden on couriers and allow the packages to be delivered more quickly to the receiving person? This alternative channel is the "delivery outside", which so much triggered both Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Gennamas and many others. Did it work? The first two days, although the weather was extremely bad and yesterday and today with many rains, I have to tell you that it is more than encouraging. Tens of thousands of orders were executed yesterday and today, about twice as much from yesterday to the time I came to Parliament. I see them from the electronic trading systems. These were orders that would go to the couriers. Therefore, this eliminates the burden and creates conditions of normalisation of this market. Is the big guy winning? Obviously the big and the organized one will gain more, because he has spent more money on it and more to be ready for it. But we didn't just stay in the big one. What did we do? We also allowed the phone order so that he can participate in this method and the small store that he doesn't have e-shop. And what did we do? We didn't just get you to get payment from the credit card via the internet, with e-banking, which may not have the small store, but we also put payment to the credit card store. And not only that, but we also put a free message via e-consumer, so that the small businessman sms does not spend to his client through mobile telephony companies and any small businessman who does not have e-shop and wants, enters e-consumer and makes use of free services of the Ministry of Development, so that he too can make use of delivery outside. That, Mr. Loverdos, doesn't it show you the care we have for the little ones to work with? Obviously, small ones will not be able to work like large ones - obviously! - because the others are more organized. But, for our part, we do everything we can to get the little ones to work. Do you have any good idea we haven't thought of to make it work even better? That's a nice opposition. And tell us, "Mr. Georgiadis, since they cannot open the shops and we have agreed to and closed the world, because the world will die, find an alternative." Not to come and make criticism from a high point of view, as Mr Tsakalotos did earlier and Mr Tsipras when we have a real problem to solve, which the government did not create, but nature. If you have such constructive proposals, we are the first government that is ready to accept any proposal from the opposition is reasonable and can be implemented. Today, Mr President, I was speaking at the General Assembly of the Chambers of Greece. We had a debate on all the alternatives, we talked more than three and a half hours and finally with all the Presidents, that so far there has been no alternative, better way than that for trade to work, even partially. And I would like to make it clear that we have never claimed that this will counteract the damage of the festive turnover. That is why we said that companies making use of this method will continue to be understood as closed with a state mandate and will receive all the benefits they received until yesterday as completely closed. They will, however, have the opportunity to make some noise from where they did zero, to serve some customers from where they served zero and, in this way, to keep in touch with customers and trade and not completely eradicate trade without jeopardising public health. Instead of saying 'bravo', you come out and plunder, as if there were no magical solution that we did not implement. Ladies and gentlemen - to close - this year at the Ministry of Development, despite the very great difficulties, the obvious coronary, we have achieved enough. I won't say it now, because I don't have time. I am only presenting to you the report by Ernst & Young, four months ago, which brings Greece up to the six foreign direct investment index, at the best position it had in thirteen years, within a year of governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am presenting the country's rise by nine positions in the International Competitiveness Table, the best position Greece has had in twelve years, in just a year of governance Mitsotakis. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Continuing the reforms, we will go even better next year and will go up even more and attract even more foreign investments, such as 'MICROSOT', such as 'PFIZER', such as 'CISCO', such as 'DIGITAL REALTY', 'VOLKSWAGEN', which we have brought into the pandemic within a year, when you five and a half years in power brought no investment from abroad except those that the Samara - Venizelos government had closed down with the airports and all the other investments that we had brought. Not even one investment of your own has left you five and a half years! I will submit to their House two tables from the official European Commission table on the absorption of the NSRF in the two main funds, the Regional Cohesion Fund and the Social Fund, where we received Greece in the middle of the table and within one year we went to the Regional Cohesion Fund first and to the Social Fund second in absorption throughout Europe. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That is what our Government did in the midst of this difficult situation. And I'm not saying it's all pomegranate. It's obviously not. And mistakes will be made and difficulties will be made. But it cannot be petty, Mr Chakaloto, your criticism, that nothing has been done for ten months. And I will tell you a little differently: If in the midst of this calamity, with the shops closed, with people not being able to work, with what is happening in public health with the pandemic, Nea Democracy succeeds and it takes twenty points in polling towards SYRIZA and has not done anything, you need to be very concerned about exactly what SYRIZA is doing and people are not listening to it. The reality, then, is that under these extremely unfavourable conditions, the worst that Greece and humanity have experienced since World War II, the Greek economy remains standing, endured. We are here, as soon as the health crisis passes, to support business and households and with additional help, so that we can keep the world upright. We will see how we regulate the debts created by the pandemic. We will not let anyone be destroyed by the debts created by the pandemic. But all together, in a spirit of solidarity, in a spirit of cooperation, not with fights right now, we will move forward and build our Greece as we should. And we will be proud and now that Greece has been able to keep us standing in the greatest crisis of mankind for seventy years. That is why we are voting, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the budget of the State, in order to continue this irresponsible effort which has given the Greek dissident of the earth and which the Greeks have heard everywhere that Greece has done better than many others in these difficult circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u346	Parliamentary Representatives of SYRIZA and the Change Movement have been asked for the floor, respectively. They'll take the floor for a few minutes. They will obviously be placed on Mr. Georgiadis' speech. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, the Minister for Development has come here to support the Minister for Finance. He didn't answer anything I said, if it's a lie what he said on Friday night, and I gave you the minutes, about where we're in the nine-month classification, how much recession we have in relation to other countries, who lied consciously. He did not answer the other thing that is not a lie, but it is a misunderstanding when you say that I am not last in health expenditure, because since the evidence came out, I have spent more on it, but we are proving to you from the new evidence that only Greece has provided new evidence. So, we're still too close to the bottom. For confrontation with them, I was surprised how impossible the argument was. So, what was Mr. Georgiadis' counter-protect? That me and others, but let me only talk about myself, we had exaggerated the recession and growth in the fourth quarter of 2019 on the provisional data. The provisional evidence is provisional, Mr Georgiadis, it is not a lie, and you tell me to apologise, as should Mr Lebanese and Mr Stavros and Mr Skylakakis. It's not a lie. It is right that the fourth was better, but the trend is the same, in the argument we have been talking about. And that is where Mr Stakoras comes in and says, where he sees that there was no recession in the fourth quarter, but we had a reduction in relation to the first and second? It comes out and announces, as if it does not understand, the average throughout the year, so that it does not appear that from the first and second quarters, which was SYRIZA, growth was reduced in the fourth quarter, which applies, and not only to the provisional data, but also to the final data of ELSTAT. And that's the great lie that I have to apologise in front of the amazing things that we've heard here four days! Indeed, Mr Georgiadis, if we were to sit around a table and say one - one, I think I would convince you that it is unacceptable to continue in the Greek Parliament in this way. But two things very quickly I shall say, Mr President. You told us that the whole world would predict that the worst quarter would be the third quarter of summer. Obviously, that's why we took off "We're staying upright I". It wasn't that we didn't know. And you should know that. And we say what almost all economists are saying now, even economists who were in your climate in 2010, 2011, 2012, that the basis for avoiding the major recession is to spend more quickly. Because this will reduce how much the recession will fall, reduce how much the revenue will fall, and ultimately reduce how much the debt will increase, so that you do not have a problem on the markets in the future. This is the serious discussion between us. The mistake, if it's wrong, that you have to convince us there, is that it was wrong to spend more quickly. Because you must know that in a massive recession that the private sector cannot spend if it does not spend as much as the public sector should, this creates more recession. And that was the 2010-2014 lesson, which we made the two memorandums and did not reduce the debt as a percentage of GDP for that very reason. This is the serious discussion. You could have any arguments without your economic group - I am not saying about you - to distort the evidence. That's the real conversation. And you told us about the delivery outside, the click away. It's a matter. That is not the main argument. They say, however, that if we take the whole package of measures that you have taken, the larger fish are favoured by the smaller fish. That's what they tell you. SYRIZA doesn't just say that to attack. This is what the organisations, chambers, agencies say. And so, in a market, when you're trying to deal with them all the same, you're helping the big fish. You have ministers who have spoken of zombie companies. To tell us clearly, your view is that, because of this crisis, sixty thousand or two hundred businesses will be closed down - I do not know what forecasts are - and they will do so well? Is that the argument? To make a productive reconstruction? If that's it, say it. However, if it is not, you must present measures that help the small fish. And this is a debate - beyond the distortion of the facts - which we can do. Because there may be arguments on both sides about what is the most appropriate way, but we can have this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u348	Good. Mr. Georgiadis, let Mr. Loverdos speak and answer both of you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. You said a lot about the question I wanted to ask you. I'll ask you two questions, but I mean you said a lot about the first question. But I will insist. I'm talking about couriers. I have asked on the occasion of a debate that we had in this House, Mr Karamanlis. Did I tell him in this situation that the ELTAs can help? He replied to me "to address Mr Pierracakis" and was right. I addressed Mr Pierracakis here the day before yesterday. He said to me: “It is not my responsibility to operate the couriers. The ELTAs are my responsibility. The couriers to Mr Papathanassis, your deputy. Be careful, another solution, you say, you haven't found three and a half hours of discussion with dealers, I don't remember which body. Add workers for a certain period of time, assistance from ELTAs in this effort can not stand? Only the ‘delivery outside’ is the answer to the problem? We have long been discussing the possible measures for universal closure or partial closure, as has been done. There has been a great deal of pressure on courier companies for too long. And the organized state responds to the problem before it goes off. The discussions you have had, I understand, Minister, Mr Georgiadis are now taking place. A organized state has done this since October - November, which has been awaiting the crisis of these months. In any case, apart from the criticism I am making, but I think that it is decency and serious, to make it clear, now for the month before us, there is no other solution 'outside'. That's the one question. Secondly, we understand from the first day you have taken over we, who do not know the government's internal functioning, that you are the Minister of Investment. At the moment, more work than the Egnatia Road proclaimed, but, of course, an investment, on the other hand, does not exist. It's over 1 billion. It's the biggest project of the decade. I read in 'Sunday Day' that one offer was accepted. The other companies - two, mighty of their names - requested 15 days or one month extension. The government didn't give. She preferred to submit an offer. Some temporary orders have been won - I read in the same newspaper - and the decision on insurance is expected. It's making me feel bad now. Do you, as an investment minister, consider it an investment climate to exclude, not to grant an extension of fifteen days, and have you given all the other cases that you have been asked to? What's that? So my first question is a solution question. My second question is a question of seeking explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u350	Mr. Georgiadis, we'll take it three to one. You can take it, I imagine. Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u351	He can handle it, Mr. President. Besides, he knows very well that I appreciate him. I won't fight myself like he fought. Because the Minister was shouting too much. We didn't understand, Minister, did you do everything well? What does this 'click away' mean? Didn't you see what happened? That from outside the store people were changing and trying to try things out? You don't understand that either? You don't understand that either. In the morning at 10:30 Mr. Papathanasis came out. To understand - I said it in my speech, but you weren't here - how you work. At 10:30, he says, they won't open the stores of beauty, the care of nails, feet, pedicure - manicure. At 12:30, the government representative, Mr. Petsas, says they'll open. Are they going to open or not open? Because you're also the Minister of Investment and said that investment, investment, etc., the Scaramaga shipyards, Minister, with how much money you're thinking of selling them? With a million or 10 million whole shipyards? "MICROSOT" came here and put money? Are you going to tell us a company that came and put money in, brought money? None! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, too. Mr Georgiadis will close this interesting cycle of controversy. Then we will go to Mr Marcos to close the fifteenth cycle and then Mr Hatzidakis, the Minister for the Environment, will speak. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u353	I'm addressing Mr. Chakaloto. First of all, you told me that I wrongly accused you of lying, since you were relying on ELSTAT's provisional data. So now that the finals are here and it turns out that we had growth and in the last quarter of 2019 I expect you to pack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u354	I said good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u355	Not good, to pack. You have made about a thousand statements personally, if I go to Google, that Greece is the only country that was in recession before the coronary. Please get up in the Step and say: "Group, eventually Greece was not in a recession before the coronary". To be heard in Greek society, to understand it. I'm waiting, as soon as I close, you'll say it. Please, Mr President, reconstruct Mr Chakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u356	But growth fell. Will you say that growth has fallen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u357	Don't have a new conversation. You and Mr. Tsipras said that together, Greece is the only country in the Eurozone that had a recession before the coronary. I'm waiting now for you to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u358	And you will say that growth has fallen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u359	I expect you to say now: 'We have made a mistake. Greece was finally not in a recession before the coronary, it was in development. And then fill in: "In less than we would like." Say that, but please be heard very much, since you like the truth and you didn't intend to rehabilitate as soon as I'm done. I expect to hear it, to be in the Minutes for history. Let's go to the big one now. Repeat, too, the fairy tale, that we are supposed to be helping the great. First of all, Mr Chakaloto, I want you to know that the repayable advances we have given, one, two, three and four so far and five and six are being prepared, have only been to small and medium-sized enterprises by definition. It could not go through the rule within the repayable advance of any undertaking that went beyond the definition of the European Commission for the small and medium-sized enterprises. So all the money that the State gave to business went only to small and medium-sized enterprises. While you know that, because it is by definition from the European rule, you are the serious one - I will say again - Tsakalots say the same story again. What's the big business? Only one tool: the loans guaranteed by the Greek public sector. Look, in total, we have done three tools: Refundable advances all went to small and medium-sized enterprises. The TPIX that's all in small and medium-sized enterprises. Because the TENS by definition was only for small and medium-sized enterprises and up to EUR 500,000. I say that for the New Democracy colleagues too, because many people were saying 'but in my constituency that the loans were made by the big people'. But he couldn't get a big TEPIX. It was by definition only for small and medium-sized enterprises. What was the only way the big business could get into? In the guarantee loans, and even pay attention, the first 3.5 billion went for 600 million and the other 2.9 billion went to small and medium-sized businesses and the second 3.5 billion entered for 300 million, while the 3.2 billion went to small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, in the total of about EUR 10 billion, the money allocated to the larges was EUR 900 million and EUR 9.1 billion to EUR 10 billion was for small and medium-sized enterprises. And you come here to the House, you, the serious Chakalos, and you say that story again! The government that has given so much money and supported the small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece has not been there since 1830 and the London Treaty, so that we can be informed. I would ask the honourable Members to know that we have only supported small and medium-sized enterprises and not large ones. That's the reality. Now let's go to Mr. Loverdo. Maybe I didn't explain it well, Mr. Comrade, before. I would also be the last person to say that you are not criticising worldly. Obviously, worldly and constructive criticisms are being made. First of all, the courier's jurisdiction is to me. Any question you want to ask me. When the crisis started in March - April, I would remind you, we had sent from the Ministry of Development and audits so that, if you remember then, an excessive price increase would not happen if some undertakings from them were to step on this wave of the first krone. But what did I tell you before? We worked as a ministry with these companies for a few months. Also hired made new warehouses rented and the ELTA participated. The ELTAs have their own, they have part of this company and they participated as much as they could. So I told you: While normally operating before the pandemic, with an average of seventy thousand packets a day, when we arrived at the first quarantine, they reached the highest, in a hundred fifty thousand packages. Now in November they made more than two hundred and fifty thousand a day, which means that they were organized in the intervening period. And the hires also made warehouses, and we helped them with whatever they asked us to do. We were preparing for a possible new bad scenario, as they prepared. What I told you is that, if you remember, the original scenario was to open the retail sale at the holidays. In the scenario for the retail sale at holidays, this organization of couriers would be sufficient. But, in the end, the course of the pandemic was not following the speed of dropping the incidents and the IFs that we wanted and look at what is happening in the rest of Europe. Where they opened the retail sale, they are now rushing the bread - they have to shut it down again. We finally decided not to open the retail. But when you don't have the retail sale open and you're at the holidays, the orders are no longer two hundred and fifty thousand a day, but do you know how much the day has arrived? Eight hundred thousand. In these new limits, therefore, no matter how much these courier companies had done, it was not enough, because the reality went beyond us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u360	When did they get to the eight hundred thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u361	Five days ago. So what happened now? This pressure on trade would normally be extinguished in the retail. It could not, however, get rid of the retail sale, since we could not open the shops for public health reasons. Then we thought of tradition as an alternative scenario outside. And I hear stuff about scripts. I've heard all the scripts! I can assure you that as far as possible and the time we live, tradition is a positive measure. I'm not saying it's ideal. I heard Mr. Mylonakis who said before, don't you see, says they're trying shoes and pants outside the stores? First of all, that's illegal. This isn't how the system works, and if we catch a store doing this to the client, we have to put 50,000 fines on the store and fines on the client who does it. What do you bring me as an example? Are you bringing my illegality as an example? Obviously, that's not supposed to happen, I'm telling you. And I saw this photo and I ordered DYMEA today to look on too many streets if that were to happen. Of course, it was raining today, and it would be hard to try shoes in the rain. In any case, that must not be done, it is the right answer. We have said that it is an alternative to absorb some of the pressure on trade and to be able to withstand the transmission system to serve the others. Repeat, do you have any other way to suggest? Here we go. I told you today, Mr Loverdo, that we had a debate three and a half hours and said that it has never been Minister in the history of the development chambers to stay with them three and a half hours. All the presidents of all the chambers of Greece spoke. We finally came to the conclusion that there was no other way. And I'd like open shops. The other way is to open the retail. We can't open the retail.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u362	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Mylonakis, don't interrupt. We've got to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u364	In the example of Mr. Mylonakis for Mr. Papathanassis. You have said so in your speech, and you have reiterated it now. And you're wrong with Mr. Papathanassis and you're wrong. First and foremost, because the responsibility for opening up these stores is not met by Mr Papathanases, I have it. Be careful, because although I am an unreserved minister, I've finally talked to you about seventy responsibilities. But it doesn't matter, I'm getting past it. It's another parapolitical, one of SYRIZA's pitiful ridicule. I'm going to the big one now. I went out on the show called SKAI at 11.00 and when I was asked about the stores you mentioned, I said that we have received too much pressure, that we have alternative thoughts and will make announcements within an hour, over and over. Last night, in the MEGA news report, I also said that we were thinking about how to deal with this problem. So, we all know what we're deciding. Now, it happened in a reversal of Mr. Papathanasis' speech - not to be misunderstood, it is excellent and you all know what Mr. Papathanassis is doing, it is amazing in his work, excellent, more than excellent - to say what he said and now take the party's party and make a fuss. Shame on you! I'm hanging up with Ennaia. First of all, investment in Greece has come and it is not true what Mr Mylonakis says. And ONEX put money in the Syrian Shipyards and MICROSOT already bought the land that builds the centers. MICROSOFT has already spent over 150 million. DIGITAL REALTY has already spent to buy the company ‘LAMDA HELIX’ and announced to the US stock exchange investment in Greece of 400 million. And in renewable energy sources, which the Minister for Energy is here to tell you, I do not want to say the popular expression to describe what is happening. Put the popular expression on your mind to understand. We have approved billions - not millions - investments in renewable energy sources!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u365	Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u366	I answer Mr. Mylonakis. I'm going to talk about Ennaia Street lately. So what you said isn't true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u367	Scaramagas...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u368	Come on, Mr. Mylonakis, it's his turn now to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Georgiadis, the industry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u370	Even for the industry you mentioned, Mr. Tsakalotos who reads ELSTAT tell you. Even in the third quarter at the very negative, industry and exports went extremely well. It's over. In fact, in particular in the production of health material and medicines it went even better. Now we're going to the two questions left unanswered. As far as Scaramaga is concerned, even though the competition...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u371	For EGD?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u372	Egnatia's lately, I said, Mr. Loverdo. You think I should leave you? If anyone can't let you go, it's me. That's for sure. So as far as Scaramaga is concerned, although it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, I must tell you - and the previous government knows it - that the tender that we are now conducting was initiated by the previous government which had chosen it and the liquidator, breaking into two, another one, and so on. - that this is a very difficult competition, because this company called "SKARAMAGAS", for reasons Mr. Vitsas knows very well, drags sins of the past huge and it is very difficult to get an investor in this project. Because this project drags behind him sins of the past. If you ask me, the presence of these two tenders, which may seem to be absolutely how small, but the commitment to investment is huge, is a success. As far as Egnatia is concerned, I'm closing up with this...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u373	Well, say, I don't know...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u374	It's not a million, sir. It's 15 million each with an investment commitment of 700 million. You have not read well the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u375	That's the answer he's giving you. There's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u376	As far as Egnatia is concerned, it is a competition conducted by the GOI, not by us, not by me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u377	The Minister for Finance gives the extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u378	I said, not me. I'm the Minister of Development. Well, we agree. Since it's HIADE, the Minister of Finance is supervising. However, I have to tell you that under the circumstances we are experiencing, privatization efforts are becoming extremely difficult, because the main companies that can be involved are currently having very big problems and liquidity and damage. It is not a good time to achieve important results in such competitions, in the greatest economic crisis in humanity since World War II. But the Treasury will see these and end up in the best way possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u379	You didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, too. It is called in Stepma, SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u381	Mr President, when can I talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I have announced your co-rapporteur, Mr Marcos, from Achaia and Mr Hatzidakis shortly afterwards. Would you like to speak after Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u383	Yeah, after Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u384	Good. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot resist the temptation to comment on what the Minister for Development has said. For, as the ancients said, 'the lion's nail'. In March in the first phase of the pandemic - it says - they increased and 50 thousand orders went to the courier companies. In the same month, the courier companies joined the firms affected and received all the bonuses, which had been foreseen - whatever little or much - by the Government for the firms affected. Businesses, in which within one month their turnover increased by fifty thousand. That's what Mr. Georgiadis serves. We are discussing the budget, while Greek society is among two scourges. One is the scourge of pandemic and the other is the scourge of the social and economic policy of the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] We are discussing the budget on the background of a health crisis that has already led internationally to enormous losses, but also a health crisis which, it seems, will lead to the economic destruction of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country and redundancies of a large number of workers. Every reasonably thinking person, with this fact in mind, would expect the budget to do the least, that is to say, to be a budget for strengthening the funds to be allocated to support public health in order to ensure that there is a serious prevention of the next third wave that comes, to shield the ESS and to save valuable human lives. Secondly, but also seriously, limiting some subsequent lockdowns to what that means to the economy and society. Unfortunately, the government is doing exactly the opposite. Instead of increasing public health spending, and even decisively, it cuts them. She insists dogmatically on her policy. We say so, because she says so herself. She's a neoliberal, but she's bankrupt. And government's bankruptcy from now on will result in household bankruptcy, business and families. That is why it is not enough to say that we are voting against this budget. This budget should not even have come to a debate in Parliament. He should have retired because he's out of place and time. More specifically, in order to strengthen public health, he cannot find money for our country's subordinated hospitals, who give an unequal battle without equipment and which the people are left to their fate and die outside of the ICU. It can, however, find money for more recruiting police officers - we heard two, three hours ago, Mr Chrysochide's beastly programme - in order to keep our universities safe and, in practice, the doctrine of 'law and order'. Because this is according to the Minister of Civil Protection the doctrine: Police are the new RS. Mr. Georgiadis said on November 13, 2013: "If there are doctors' dismissals at the EEA, please, I do not want this to be charged with the troika. I don't want Tomsen taking my glory for self-evident things. The decisions are mine." If anything, he's both cynical and honest. So the government has chosen sides and we are against it. We will in every way pursue a new social majority that will allow for a change in this policy. The main features of the budget were explained in detail by both our special rapporteurs and other speakers. He is inhuman, classic, purely anti-grassroots, brings austerity for workers and for wide popular strata with purely class tax policy. Let us now come a little more specifically. The government has failed both in the pandemic and in the economy. You failed, gentlemen of the government, in the management of the pandemic. It's true that we have three thousand deaths over a month. This is undeniable, unfortunately. We also have a negative record in relation to the average European level in deaths per population. This is undeniable, unfortunately. You failed to manage the economy. It has the worst material results for our country in the European Union. Mr. Chakalotos was very clear. Mr Mitsotakis and the members of the government are suffering from a lack of empathy - and Mr Mitsotakis has shown this - of the drama experienced by the citizens and leading the country to a constant crisis of social cohesion with a rapid decline in incomes, an increase in unemployment, the locks in businesses and social inequalities. The budget at the same time is also phony, but also provocative. Is this a vote, since, in the midst of a pandemic and economic crisis, you are reducing public health expenditure? So let us look at two - three things more specifically and especially your lies and inaccurate, gentlemen of the government. Lie first: State funding to the National Health System was reduced on SYRIZA compared to 2014. The truth: On SYRIZA public health expenditure increased by 4.5% of GDP - which was in 2014 - to 5.1, an increase of approximately 1 billion. It could not be done anyway, when the insurers, refugees, primary care structures and so many others were covered. A second lie: New Democracy increased by 786 million health expenditure because of a pandemic. Unfortunately, the truth is that this increase is under 400 million. Smuggling that adds the extra costs to insurance contributions lead to such a result. In practice, we are at the bottom of Europe in terms of health costs for dealing with pandemic. In the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the Prime Minister announced four thousand recruitments in the field of health. They don't look anywhere in the budget. Mr. Skokakakis had said in October in the House that there is no room for permanent recruitment to health. There's no financial freedom, he said. Therefore, the government has to display a defensive behaviour within the general environment and not just because of its failure to manage the pandemic, it is not convinced in its record. He's bringing a new version of the old account. The most convincing thing, which he thinks is, is that the initiatives he takes with regard to strengthening the health system are doing them by recruiting contractors, i.e. disposable health workers, by dropping and refusing to start increasing public health expenditure through the state budget. In other words - it is very clear what I will say - the government camp is trying to convince that they are a reserve for the ESS all the measures it takes to ensure that no reserve remains in the ESS. And I come just on this, in the third lie that was heard a few hours ago by Mr Theodorikos, how many were serving in the National Health System in September 2019 and how many in September 2020. We were presented with a number in which the contractors and the assistants were included, while the President of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, had presented the figures for the permanents. How long will you nourish this people with lies? Our health situation has improved over the five years of SYRIZA, but it is not good. Approximately 10% of our fellow citizens do not go to health services because of economic reasons. This is important, very important and unirreversible. Our response as a party will be a structured health system, a proposal which will be tabled within the days and which will meet all the demands of society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm talking about doctors and nurses. Recent investigations, very serious, have shown that they have seven times more chances of being seriously ill than COVID in relation to the other professions and we see it in the newsbook in our country. It has begun and died, unfortunately, health personnel. The conclusion of the Committee of the Ministry of Labour, which recommends the inclusion of doctors and nurses in heavy and unhealthy is in the right direction, but there should also be preventive measures to reduce occupational risk and something very important, in my view, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to cover the health workers who are losing their lives because of the coronary. It's a minimum moral obligation to the state toward them. You must take initiatives in this and do not, like the Minister of Development, because Demosthenes said 'your houses in which you have been afflicted, you have no help.' For health, Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Kontozamanis were singing the previous days. For the finances, Mr. Stavros and Mr. Skakakis. Mr. Georgiadis, because of his specific character, sings for everything. Unfortunately, our homes are burning. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, too. Good evening to you and me. Let's go back to the relapse, but keep time to make it. Mr. Athanasios made a prediction that we will be finished early, ten o'clock, but he fell a little outside, because we have the ministers. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, has the floor. It is a good request from the Bureau for the time, especially for the Members who are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u387	Mr President, I shall speak from a written text to avoid the abuse of time, because I have the temptation to say a great deal, although I see that there has been a tradition of abuse of time all the days in which the budget is being discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Georgiadis and I went well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u389	Anyway. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time perhaps the most difficult year for all of the last years that has brought us to Greece has been confronted with four major challenges, migration - let us not forget, Mr Metarakis will speak in a few days' time - the exacerbation of the problems with Turkey, the scourge of the coronary and, of course, the great recession caused by this unprecedented crisis. The government has been faced with these challenges in time and with management adequacy. There are different estimates from the Opposition. I do not think even voters of opposition parties in the last elections share them, at least some of them, as the polls show. These are challenges against which we will fight and in 2021. But we must also fight for growth. This dual effort is reflected in the budget. It is the framework in which we are also moving in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, where we have implemented or launched in 2020, despite difficulties, important reform interventions. I shall mention only some of them. I will start from the last but extremely important reform of spatial planning and town planning with the interventions we have made in the non-building project, the mass development of local town plans, etc., with a view to green-colored development. I would like to go on reminding you of the resolution earlier on on environmental law by radically simplifying, among other things, environmental authorisations, which should have been done for many years at the place, for which only a hundred to fifty days will be required, compared with six to eight years that have been to date. I add the law on electromobility, the law on the withdrawal of disposable plastics and even two of our contributions, which I particularly want to note. The historic commitment, first of all, to defoliate the country, an effort based on a holistic plan for an economic and socially fair transition to western Macedonia and Megalopolis, to move to a new era with support for employment and local development. We will finance over 5 billion of this from national and European resources. To have a size class, this funding is ten times greater than the current West Macedonia programme, while the sixteen most comprehensive investments that have already been proposed go beyond EUR 3.5 billion. The second intervention I note is the rescue and modernisation of PPC. With the extraordinary measures we took last year, the largest Greek company has now avoided bankruptcy. By law 4643 we voted, the foundations for modernising it were laid, as flexibility mechanisms were created within the company. The effort continues every day and PPC becomes more healthy, more modern, more green. That is not only what the government says, it is reflected both in the credit assessments of international houses and in the course of its share, the price of which has obviously been multiplied. PPC today is undeniably another PPC and this must be credited to both its administration and the efforts of the government. These were only some of the contributions that we have made so far. We continue in the same direction in 2021, with three major challenges ahead of us in the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: the first is the promotion of privatisation, which we are supervising. The second is the institutional framework, but also the implementation of the institutional framework already adopted. The third is the use of the Recovery Fund, because we are particularly concerned about it. In relation to the first challenge, I would like to inform the House and the Greek people of the following: For privatizations, I choose the following: For LARCO, privatisation began a few weeks ago. The milestone for its completion is the first half of 2021 and this will give a solution to a 30-five-year-old problem, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, the privatisation of the FIFG is under way, on the one hand, of infrastructure projects, on the other hand, which are now moving from the FIFG. In the next few days, too, the partial privatisation of the TEN has begun, a privatization that will be, among others, a very important liquidity injection for PPC, but also a privatization, which I have already announced today, that there will be a great deal of interest by investors. The next challenge is the institutional framework and the implementation of the already adopted institutional framework. I'll talk about six different fields. The first is the reform of the energy market. What will happen to the energy market? First of all, we adopt Directive 944 of the European Union on electricity, which lays the foundations for the consumer to be able to do what is called 'prosumer' in Brussels, namely to become a consumer, but also a producer of energy on a larger scale than is currently the case. We are rapidly promoting the programme for smart meters that will contribute to energy savings, but which are also linked to the reforms that we want to bring in in relation to Directive 944. We continue energy poverty actions with a glance at vulnerable people and, at the same time, progress with the proper implementation of the Target model, which, along with the country's international relations, will strengthen competition in electricity for the benefit of consumers at the end of the day. I would also like to make it clear from this step in every direction: Games with the liberalisation of the energy market will not be tolerated in any way. I know that after the strict message of the Ministry, the market has reacted positively over the last few days, but I repeat our message, we will not be restless even a second. The message is absolutely clear. It's over and out. The next field is the promotion of green energy. We are further simplifying the authorisation of RES in relation to installation and operation permits. We have already considerably simplified the system for production licences last year, but we are also developing the framework for innovative technologies, marine wind parks and hydrogen, so that we can make maximum use of the country's capabilities. We are adopting the relevant European directive on RES, and I note from this one step forward that the interest in investment in renewable energy sources is enormous and continues unresolved after the latest interventions by the Government. The remarks, I am sorry to say, of the opposition on this matter were out of place and time. If you see the details of the interested parties, the size of the investments that are expected in the queue, you will find that I am perfectly accurate. Third field: forest maps. We complete the post at the beginning of 2021, after last year's vote at n.4685, and dominate most of them until the end of next year, 2021, so that we have complete and reliable forest maps throughout Greece, not in twenty-seven years according to the SYRIZA method for 55% of the country. I am talking about all of Greece and in just two years. In irresponsible and demagogic criticism we respond every month and every day with works. Fourth field: land register. By the end of 2021 we will have the following picture: They operate, as they are called, at 37% of total rights in the country. We will be in the posting phase - up to 40% of the rights in addition, with 16% objections being examined and only 7% of the country's declaration-collection phase. There is therefore more visible progress in the livestock register too. Fifth field: waste management. We develop modern waste management units across the country to drastically reduce the burial rate and increase the recycling that is our flag. In the next period, we are auctioning or compromiseing about twenty waste management units. To have one size class, so far in the country since there have been units operating six, two of which have been obsolete. We're auctioning and compromiseing twenty. We will bring to a vote in early 2021 and the law that changes everything in the recycling by which, among other things, we establish the four collection currents and lay the foundations for the "pay as far as I fly". What does that mean? That those who produce less garbage and recycle will be rewarded to pay less municipal fees. Sixth field: planning and town planning. We are going through the application of the new law that we have just passed by Law 4759. We are immediately putting a huge and unprecedented programme for the preparation of local town planning, starting with island and tourist areas where there is a stronger issue with the outside construction plan. We create the central building service at the Ministry to deal with unacceptable delays at local level and trouble citizens. Provisions of the law for more modern and friendly to investors land use status are being triggered and are definitively closing a number of critical issues, such as the Matty Plan, the Presidential Ordinance of Hymittos, etc. And this is what I am going through to the third major challenge that is - as I mentioned - for us at the Ministry of Recovery. Why? Because more than 37% of the funds we receive will be allocated to green actions. I stand out three of them: Energy saving: It will be financed with far more money than ever. Just on Friday, the new "Security - I autonomous" was successfully launched with resources of EUR 900 million and a much larger range of innovative interventions. They will follow even larger programmes, as we seek to draw only from the Recovery Fund and only by 2023, 3 billion euros. I do not account for the new ESDP funds. For those who have stayed outside, and it makes sense for the last few days to have the taste of disappointment, I would like to say that this time is going to run a corresponding programme. So was 2022. So was in 2023. Our aim is to benefit up to five times more households than the ones that have benefited from all previous years. I am going to the protected areas of NATURA because it is something I have in me. I still remember the completely unfair criticism that was made when Law 4685 passed. In addition to the establishment and operation of the OFEKA, the new organisation for protected areas, and the preparation of specific environmental studies and management plans, we are calling for 160 million overall from the Recovery Fund for the protection and enhancement of biodiversity. Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the SYRIZA, which tends to be the prosecutors at all times, I want you to compare these 160 million that we 'bads' give for NATURA, with the 8 million that you have given each year for the operation of the agencies. Because that is what you have done, and that is what we compare, 8 million, 160 million, with actions such as upgrading the infrastructure of NATURA and strengthening ecotourism. It is the largest project for NATURA that ever took place in the country. I close with another action that I have in my heart and is the national reafforestation plan. The country has been tragically left behind in reafforestation. Behind Italy, behind France, behind Spain, eight times behind Portugal, behind Turkey. That is why we have requested EUR 310 million from the Recovery Fund. We aim at the reafforestation of five hundred thousand acres by planting thirty million trees of Greek production. Action will be supplemented by an even greater amount than the new ESDP. There will be a total of EUR 700 million for these actions. It is the protection of our heritage, our natural environment, which is the country's greatest wealth. We have an obligation on our children to respect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u390	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u391	We therefore move on to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy to a number of changes and interventions, which naturally aim to protect the environment, but also to stimulate green, sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying the following. This place has been tested for at least a decade by populism and extremes. SYRIZA - and this is what colleagues' positions show - has not yet learned from his mistakes, but continues to deal with irresponsibleness, aggression and empathy. Even the reafforestation programme, which I have just mentioned, has also been criticised by SYRIZA. One cannot imagine how irresponsible and how demagogue there can be from this party. It's a pan-European and global record. After ten years, however, suffering, Greeks are not so easily deceived. You see it every day, because the tape gets in every day from the standpoint of counterpopulation, but polls are repeated constantly. The Greeks know that if we want to spend the last decade in practice, if we want in practice to spend the 2020 multi-level crisis at the same time and break the pomegranate, entering 2021, this will not be done with blossoms and magic. It's gonna be serious and serious. This is the added value of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, that it is a serious government, a European-oriented government, a government that is oriented towards common sense, a government that is mainly project-oriented. On the one hand there are the screams, demagogues and extremes, and on the other hand there is seriousness and work. And the Greeks, for this reason, are taught by an entire decade of extremes that he interceived, choose seriousness and work. That's how we're going to continue in 2021. The vote on the budget is a basic instrument for moving in the direction that I described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, Minister. I understand what's happened. Don't think I don't understand. You will tell me that Mr Pafilis spoke so much, Mr Mylonakis so, 'to speak too'. That's not how it works. We'll put them in a row. I hear the murmurs underneath, but I shouldn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u393	Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu is right. There's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u394	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u395	You'll put MPs later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u396	Members will talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u397	Not one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u398	How many do you want? Two?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u399	Four.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u400	The former Prime Minister, George Papandreou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, thank you in advance for your time tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a wish, we welcome the new year with hope, we manage to deal effectively with the pandemic, to live in peace and better days in the world. But, ladies and gentlemen, the wishes are not enough. The responsibility of each politician is to analyse critically, to put forward democratically, to choose democratic proposals with vision and realism, so that hope can be gained content. The state budget is of particular importance, not just because of the money spent by the people, but because it shows the direction of the government for the future of the people and the country. But today, defining this orientation is crucial. The question is as simple as it is relentless. Will the symbolic year 2020-2021, two hundred years after our liberation, the year of transition for us to a new reality, with a new patriotism, promote changes that are taking place in the times of pandemic, technological revolutions, social inequalities and geopolitical conflicts, on values such as democracy and the rule of law? Or are we going to passively leave in 2020-2021 in our habits, in our dreadful introvertion and our timeless diseases, the ones that have kept us back, the ones who have driven young people abroad and plunged us into the economic crisis over the last ten years? We need to answer this question, because I hear persistent leaders and commentators looking for a return to normality. But what regularity? The one who has held us through multiple crises in recent years, which has deepened the inequality worldwide, which has led us to the climate crisis with consequences for the health, refugee, our diet, which has produced racism and social polarization, which has allowed the concentration of wealth and power to rise to the minimum, so that our democratic institutions and media are captive, which allows technology to become a tool for monitoring and unfair political influence instead of serving the common good? How did we stand up to these challenges and what have we achieved? How powerful have we come out? Despite the great announcements, it is the act that highlights the real person of the policy of the Government of New Democracy. Examples include a series of decisions on the management of money, the creation of new services, institutions, and the recruitment of public workers, by extraordinary procedures and without respecting the "DENMARK". Projects not related to the pandemic are treated in the light of exceptional needs. Procurement and public works - Mr. Loverdos said earlier about Egnatia - are done in a way that derogates the institutional procedures provided for. New structures or parallels to existing ones are created with the aim of supposedly controlling them, but with the result that unambiguous political centralization is uncovered. For example, the secret funds for needless services, such as refugee. The refugees have been hated, their money is not. In addition, citizens' money was wasted on manipulation, unfortunately, the media, for the favorable treatment of the government, while the provisions introduced recently for television channels are punished by the workers and are severely affected by information and democracy, while graceful regulations for the owners are excess. A number of firms affected by the pandemic are being promoted and rightly promoted, but not in the light of the defence of public interest and of the recipients, but of the shareholders. Haven't you learned from history with the recapitalisation of the banks and you and SYRIZA, so the Greek people's money will be lost and the banks will be found in foreign hands? For the pandemic. I could not have managed the recent economic crisis to reduce the difficulty of managing, ladies and gentlemen, the current unprecedented situation. I recognize it. But we need to draw conclusions on the next steps. Europe has made a serious mistake in the health sector, and has even delayed a serious positive step in the economic sector. In 2010 with the economic crisis, the European Union had to learn from America, calm the markets with support from Greece and other countries, for example through Eurobonds, instead of being punishable. This is described by the former president of America, Barack Obama, in his recent book. In 2020, Europe had to be exemplified by Asia, initially in Lockdown, as you were right and successful, we did so, but did not enter the dilemma: health or the economy, which in the end proved to be a false dilemma. Ladies and gentlemen, without public health there is no sound economy. I fear that the cultivation of a reassurance ahead of the vaccines, which will take time to mitigate the health effects of the disease, will mean another lost year for our economy, which is disastrous for many businesses and thousands of workers. Asia, with its previous experience, followed the path of mass diagnostic tests. I present to the House a Harvard study based precisely on Asia's experience, as well as a second study using this study for European countries. [[At this point, the Member, George Papandreou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned studies, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our country, following its initial success, should have carried out a universal test on the borders, on the islands, on the organised structures, but also in a universal and strategic manner in towns so that the country was almost free from the coronary. This is a proposal that we in the Change Movement have repeatedly put forward without being heard. The investment that it needs in public health structures for such an enterprise will be numerously smaller than the damage to our country's economy and we will have an infrastructure for future pandemics which, unfortunately, we now know will be facing. Why should we go back to long-lived bans with multiple victims? Columbia University’s Director of Lipkin Diseases warns us: The main thing we need to learn from this experience is to invest in public health structures, in sciences, in general detection so that what has happened to us does not happen again. Unfortunately, in our country, of course, in Europe, we spent a summer living summer night dreams. Even the new IF beds, most of which were done with donations, were not served in time and practically. I also know in my area of Achaea, Rio, a reference hospital where the main problem is staffing at the moment. The result of the inconsistency shown by the government and the absence of each project, of course, we are all paying for it, in particular, a number of professional sectors, some of which are at risk of total destruction, such as the focus and the retail trade where the damage if there is no care will also be transferred to the producers and to the wholesale trade. It is clear that the opening of the market after the first prohibition was made in the wrong way. Europe has not taken a bold step towards pandemic. But with ten years of delay he starts doing what - if you remember - I had proposed ten years ago in 2009 and 2010. If Europe and Greece then adopted them, they would deal with problems and with less pain and more substantial changes. Eurobonds and green bonds have become a reality. Proposals such as the taxation of stock transactions, greenhouse gas taxes basically of carbon dioxide, the fight against tax havens where huge sums of wealth are hiding have recently been voted by the majority of this Parliament. Who was listening to us then? Today Europe is talking about moving to a new green social contract and investing in it. That is a welcome prospect. And here, however, are important topics of a classic nature. Who's going to win this transition? The entrepreneur or society as a whole of workers and consumers? Are we talking about sustainable development, but will it include all or will the inequalities, poverty and the marginalisation of the many? As far as our country is concerned, very interesting potential reflection processes are being made in the circles of the European Financial Council on the next day in the Eurozone regarding the treatment of public debt. For all these discussions what has he done and what does the current government have to say? The reformist nature of the government's policy for which it seems to be becoming more and more radical. Just think about that. Reintroduce the interview. Is it also the "blue interview" of Mr. Pavlopoulou in ASEP? Forget the inexperienced stagiaires, the contractors of Mr. Pavlopoulou, who you fooled them by closing their eyes for an alleged simulation? Nor has the message of the causes of the crisis and the recourse to forced lending been received here? Is it not, then, to wonder that even today the Prime Minister says that it is because of the crisis that the phrase'money is there' is' rather than the financial management and accounting fraud of Mr Karamanlis's government? Mr. Mitsotakis, there's money. The problem is different. Where are you going? And, of course, the budget for 2021, as well as the targeting of the Recovery Fund, should be devoted to the transition to sustainable development, cohesion and justice in a new completely different normality and with the mobilisation and participation of the Greek citizen in a dialogue on the future of the country, to the creation of a new vision for Greece. This opportunity is missing. The debate is extinct in the conclusions of the Pissaridis Committee, which has not even been consulted today. A conclusion that is a summary of hard neoliberal policies and promotes a growth model that does not seem in any way to be aimed at reducing major disparities. The pandemic should be an opportunity for a new national plan, but in a way that brings radical changes, deepening democracy, transparency, accountability, democracy and social justice. There is no time to go into foreign policy matters but just one point. Our strength less depends on the purchase of equipment and much more on the capacity, creativity, coherence and collectiveness of the Greek society and the economy. And I ask: have we faced the deepest and true causes of the economic crisis ten years ago which has hit us for ten years? Have we ever really talked about them, and why not? We were left with the easy complaint of the memorials, but we did not deal with why we needed them. Nobody. Neither the New Democracy that brought us to the edge of the cliff nor the SYRIZA that brought us new and unnecessary memoirs. I heard the big pharmaceutical companies talking to the Prime Minister about investment in our country yesterday saying we have a high-level human potential. I'm glad. They have, however, expressed reservations: the institutional framework, bureaucracy, authorisations, the judicial system. Did they say so in a very diplomatic way, ladies and gentlemen, that investment will not come if we do not "wound" customer perceptions and practices to the satisfaction of micro-party purposes or to the service of other interests, local people, that transparency is a kind of inadequacy, that, despite fine words on the contrary, there is a basic cause, according to young people themselves, for their immigration? Equivalent is under attack. Accountability is dealt with with ironically, arrogantly and through communication management. The design is constantly changing and is not enough for the construction of a productive model that requires radical changes, while autocracy is the equivalent of legality. These pathogens are reproduced. They continue to produce new distortions and harmful effects. I do not expect any multinational corporation to unleash us, of course, especially the pharmaceutical companies with which we crashed in 2010. However, I know that the lack of democratic transparent institutions, accountability and merits are making us easy to catch up with fornication, corruption and waste, a waste of the wealth of the Greek taxpayer at the expense of the Greek worker, facilitates the snatching and not healthy investment. This last point I note, because many important intellectuals stress that societies that manage to respond effectively and sustainablely to the major challenges of our time are those that the institutions operate democratically, transparently, with scientific documentation, with justice and are characterised by social cohesion. Let me say it differently. Either the transition to a new normality will take place with the citizen, or it will not take place at all, especially with poles and divisions. I should like to close with one point which I consider to be morally necessary to put forward, as is one question. How do these values and interests of the Greeks serve, when even today you say that Mr. George of ELSTAT has distorted the figures for the 2009 budget, when you ignore the scientific documentation that you want to invoke, when, with his own data, we have managed to leave the star of the great statistics in EUROSTAT and to regain our authority, when today that you, of the New Democracy, are voting on your own budget, he is based on the elements of this man, who was hunted as much as anyone else, just why he has done his work worth revealing simple truths? The pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, is causing us to deal with the diseases of a customer capitalism that characterises our country, in order not to make mistakes of the past, to turn a page for the new generation, for the Greeks and for the country. And we have a particular responsibility for this as members of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u402	Thank you too, Prime Minister. Next is the Artinian Mr. Stylus from New Democracy, who must have had enormous patience today. I really don't want to be in his place. Get Mr. Papadopoulos ready. Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, none of us could imagine, at the beginning of last year, in 2020, a year ago, that we would discuss the budget for next year under these circumstances, conditions of uncertainty, concern, insecurity at global level. European countries are tested, health systems are pressed, societies count thousands of people dead. In our homeland, apart from the pandemic, we have to face up to the work of immigration and the constant Turkish challenges. The government therefore comes to resolve a difficult balance, to submit a budget in a wet environment, which will adapt to developments and the needs of the health crisis - already some scientists and experts are talking about a third wave of pandemics - while at the same time it must strengthen the country in defence, but also lay the foundations for the next day, to regain the string of growth. Citizens, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, want from the parties, from the political system, a fundamental confrontation. They don't want to confront micro-communism, they don't want conflicts of anomalies. They want proposals, they want decisions by the government and an Opposition to make creative proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first two waves of pandemic, we stood by society. The government did the best. It supported the economy and incomes and supported and strengthened the country's health system. Seven thousand doctors, nurses and other staff were recruited in public hospitals in the country. Twice the intensive care units. In addition, 700m euros were allocated to the Ministry of Health budget, just to deal with the pandemic crisis. The teleworking's backed. The state has shown that it is here, that it exists, that it works. Public education was supported by tele-education. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we shall be voting on has two objectives. Firstly, it will help to keep the country's productive tissue upright. Because in order for there to be growth the next day, after the end of the pandemic, there must be businesses, there must be free professionals and, above all, there must be workers in these businesses. Secondly, combined with the recovery fund's resources -72 billion has the Recovery Fund - to place the country's return bases quickly on growth and recovery. The budget highlights the philosophy of the government, the opening of the economy, the increase of atomic wealth, support for the weak. There is no new tax in the budget and there is no increase in insurance contributions. On the contrary, all tax and insurance reductions are being extended, as was the case last time. And I am talking about the reform of the income tax for natural persons for the 9% import rate, the reduction of HNVA by 22% and the exemption for the inhabitants of mountain and small islands, the reduction of the income tax for legal persons to 24%, the reduction of insurance contributions by three points from 1-1-2021, the abolition of the solidarity levy, the abolition of the trade fee, the possibility of recruitment without insurance contributions for the first six months and a number of other measures. And all this while the country's productive fabric and incomes are supported by liquidity tools, such as TPIX, the repayable advance and the Guarantee Fund. The total sums allocated to these liquidity support instruments exceed 12 billion, while the total amount allocated for the management and management of the pandemic is close to 30 billion, 23 billion for 2020 and the rest for 2021. For Epirus, my region, for Arta, the sums paid for the support of workers, the «PRODUCT» programme, the special purpose compensation, the payment of the Easter gift, the special compensation of the seasonal workers, reach 37 million, while the special purpose allowances for the enterprises amounting to 16 billion and the amounts paid in the four phases up to now by the fund are close to 10 billion and two other phases are expected from the repayable advance fund. In total, together with TENX I, the Guarantee Fund and TPAX II, the amount for the whole of the continent is EUR 268 million. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two comments. Firstly, the budget supports growth and supports it using the positive climate created by the government at international level, where we have a reward for our country. The low interest rates we borrow from the markets show this. They show it - the Minister of Development mentioned it before - the businesses that are coming to invest in our country. It shows the evidence from researchers in the country who can actually create Brain gain to reverse the climate that had been created in previous years in our country. Secondly, we must take advantage of the fact that next year, in 2021, there will be no budgetary restrictions that existed in all previous years. Thirdly, we must take advantage of the Greek proposal for the Recovery Fund. In conclusion, I would like to point out this. History and international experience have shown that, after trials, a great circle of creation opens up, that after wars, economic crises, pandemics are emerging new powers. People want to live, they want to create. So let us build on this trend in the world, let us rely on this prospect, on the thirst for work in the world, as a pretext. Let us see the future creatively all of us, to be worthy of our people, who have suffered so much over the past decade. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr. Spelion. Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of SYRIZA Trikalons, will be given the floor by George Kotsos. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u405	Mrs Bakoyannis is missing, but she raised a major issue. Obviously, we are in favour of dialogue with Turkey, even in difficult circumstances. But if these 'ORUC REIS' research walks continue and, above all, if Turkey exacerbates the challenge by sending drills to a lesser distance of 12 miles, what are we doing? What is the government's position? In the debate on the preliminary draft, we warned the Minister of Finance not to make refreshing assessments of the depth of the 2020 recession and the level of recovery of 2021, because discrepancies will be attributed as government responsibilities. And they're imputed. The government is illusion that the war with the pandemic will end in the first months of 2021, that the main tasks of the budget are to deal with the consequences of its own class preferences and to develop with its own neoliberal beliefs. The huge divergences in the 2020 recession and the recovery of 2021 from the original forecasts obviously reflect the consequences of the nightmareing aggression of the second wave, but also the huge governmental responsibilities for complacency, mercilessness, delusion, extinction, extensive dispersion in crowding and overtransmission, insufficient traceability, gaps in the armouring of the National Health System. The government has a tragic responsibility for the scale of the tragedy in Greece, following the success of dealing with the first wave. It has a tragic responsibility for the catastrophic failure to meet the priorities and tasks of an incredibly difficult historic period. One central issue is that, after the generalised vaccination, which must of course be done in the most comprehensive way, the battle with the pandemic will be late to end. It is likely, ladies and gentlemen, that the third wave, while the problems of the National Health System will continue to have explosive dimensions. The biggest health effort in the country should be the most comprehensive prevention to minimize the incidents of the second wave in Greece and the most comprehensive staffing, equipment and armour of the ESS for the time of the battle, as well as the tasks of the next day. We, conscious of the challenges, the tasks and the capabilities of this time, aware of the priorities of this historic period, propose a great progressive vision that can be national if we meet extensive agreements: Greece, which opened the free access of all to public health structures in the incredibly difficult conditions of the third memorandum and supported the collapse of the National Health System, becoming a pilot country of the united Europe for the quality of public services that provides free and equal treatment to all Greek citizens, residents, refugees, visitors of our country. Firstly, a documented holistic national plan for the maximum possible absorption of resources from the Recovery Fund, the European Social Fund, the ESRB, the European Union's Health Programmes, the NEXT GENERATION, the Digital EUROPE, should be submitted, as the European Parliament finally shows that it is aware of the priority of health expenditure. Secondly, the expenditure of the 2021 state budget on health to be 7% of GDP, in order to hope for the best possible management of the ongoing war with pandemic, institutional reconstruction and armouring of the ESS, the approach of the European average of funding, in the perspective of organising an integrated, universal and qualitative new national health system. The 2021 budget must have another EUR 4 billion financing of the health ministry's expenditure limit, the remuneration of RIS officials, the Public Investment Programme for Health, the EEAS, the operational needs of hospitals, health centers, regional hospitals, local health units, mobile health units, to allow for the immediate communication of fifteen thousand new permanent health officials' posts in order to be permanently covered and the appointments of subsidiary and contractors, and the departures and timeless gaps and new needs in hospitals, ITHs, primary health care structures. Also, in order to allow the organisation of new local health units with family doctors, nurses, health visitors, administrative staff, in cooperation with the World Health Organisation, now based in Athens, the full development of the autonomous TENs, the upgrading of the EKA, adequate and free laboratory investigation and traceability in each health region, the introduction of incentives to attract doctors to atrocious areas and barren specialties, the security of the country as a tourist destination, bold increases in the wages of all public health officials, the reduction of private health expenditure, which is unacceptablely high. It could also allow the brave financing of research programs and clinical studies, such as one that came to my hands, that of the Papanikolaou Hospital's Haematological Clinical Hospital, for the development of T-lymphocytes in high-risk coronary infection with the experience of the clinical in succession of more than 90% in viral infections in transplanted patients. It would also allow new expensive medicines, such as monoclonal antibodies, which prove to be effective in coronary infection, but also anticancer medicines or medicines for rare diseases, to be introduced. It would allow for the promotion of medical accuracy, cellular and gene therapy, medical, work, continuing education, mobile units and mental health networks, public rehabilitation centres. It could also allow universalisation of data on health - an electronic file, registries, therapeutic and diagnostic protocols - to provide an integrated upgrading plan for infrastructures and equipment that requires a high quality new RR, as well as the integration of Henry Dunan into the ESS. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you think that we are wrong, ladies and gentlemen, when we find that the New Democracy continues to be interested in a health system - PPP, fully commercialised, with flexible working relationships, without full, exclusive employment, with private interventions in hospitals, with the transfer of modern laboratory equipment to the private business sector, with hospital competitions and private clinics and not with partnerships? And yet, proof is cancellation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u406	Finish, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u407	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is an integrated proposal that we are tabling. Indicative is the cancellation by the Prime Minister himself of the four thousand new permanent posts he announced at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. Will you keep this to ask him? Is it possible to guarantee the Prime Minister that this permanent intake is to be ignored? We believe that the policy of alliances for the new system of government power, after the next elections, whenever they take place, must be built on strategic issues, such as the organization of an integrated and qualitative new RS, which defends health as a public good in a model for its health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. We will stay there in Trikala neighborhood, Karditsa and go to Carditsa and Mr. Georgios Kotsos from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u409	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following almost all day the opposition tactics of SYRIZA colleagues, who are mainly focused on destruction, zeroing and depreciating the government's actions. Indeed, very heavy expressions were used, such as by a colleague who said that the government, as another Nero, is following the holocaust of Greek society or another colleague who claimed that the government failed in all areas. Is that right, colleagues? If that were the case, why have you not felt the government's great failure? Obviously, or do you jump a huge, incorrect, or self-response you do not understand where society is moving. Dear ministers, I'd tell you to think about what Kofukius says. "Don't worry when others don't understand you. Worry when you don't understand others.” So don't expect a party that has seen it - when it has been governed - inconsistency, populism, depreciation of its own policy, understanding the practice followed by the New Democracy, which is a tactical consequence of election speeches and post-elections, the tactics followed by the government, which is not of the minor effort, but of strong and dynamic intervention in the political matters of the country, a government that is unbearable to unleash Greece from the tide that has been taken by the tactics of the past. And you know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Koumoundourou is not the back of the earth. Is there a society outside that you know what he's saying? Fortunately these huge crises affecting not only Greece, but also the whole world, have fallen at a time when a strong Prime Minister, a strong government, faces these crises on the best possible terms. That is why I would like to tell you that, despite the adverse circumstances in which the New Democracy was called upon to govern, with the pandemic of a global phenomenon, the challenges of the neighbouring country, with unprecedented natural disasters, with the refugee problem, it managed to stand up to the circumstances with the best possible conditions and, indeed, to defend national interests. While some argued that there were no sea borders, we raised fences in Evros and were standing a sea wall in the Aegean Sea in order to preserve our territorial integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, are we not aware that the 2021 budget is being drawn up under very unprecedented conditions which require a continuous update of estimates, that the environment in which the government is moving, the ministers, is particularly fluid? And, of course, do we not realize that it is not easy to find the gold incision between the counterproductive objectives that we are called upon to serve? On the one hand, to preserve the health and the supreme good of the lives of our fellow citizens and on the other hand to relaunch the economy. However, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that you too know that the New Democracy Government has done extremely well in all areas. This is also recognised by society, which is also evident through polling. In fact, the Government has been extremely successful in the process of economic and social problems created by the coronary, supporting businesses and workers with strong financial instruments to remain standing. Apart from this - and here I can tell you my personal testimony - even on the issues of natural disasters, the Government's reaction has been extremely instantly. In Carditsa, we had the huge phenomenon of 'Janu', all the co-responsible ministries reacted immediately. The Ministry of Interior has provided strong funding to municipalities and regions since the first time. And here I am telling you this because I have been mayor for twenty-one years and have never seen such a rapid response to such phenomena. Financing has reached local government, which uses them to heal wounds. There was also a rapid reaction from the Ministry of Finance to support the operations that were affected, as well as from the Ministry of Infrastructure that disbursed - there were thousands of applications - for companies and households amounting to 8,000 and 5000 euros in order to compensate for the damage they suffered. There was a rapid reaction even from the once slow-moving ELGA to our farmers. Over 17 million euros have already been disbursed, if I remember well, Madam Secretary, as advance payments at the moment for payment of compensation for the farmers affected. We work hard, we work responsibly, we work consistently in order to drive our country to a safer future. Our commitments are constantly taking place. The objectives of the 2021 budget are to increase employment in order to combat the great problem of youth unemployment, to increase labour productivity, which will ensure prosperity in households, to attract investment, investment crucial to the oxygen of the economy, to the oxygen of society. Of course, a huge effort is being made in the area of green development, defoliation and renewable energy. Here I would like to point out that at last, Ministers, we have to complete the medium-sized project of the Mediterranean since 2001. It is 475 million veiled money of the Greek people, which, thanks to ideologies and obsessions, remains inactive, while they could produce 165MW of pure energy for PPC and give PPC this giant, which until first had clay legs, as the Minister of the Environment said, and which gave him breath to continue, 30 million net profits per year. Of course, I should also like to come to another area, the education sector where there is an increase of EUR 145 million in this year's budget. Ten thousand new recruits of teachers come to be added to the four and a half thousand recruitments that have been made so far, in order to really support our country's education, which is the future and the prospect of this place. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on all the Parliament's wings free of micro-political and micro-political purposes to support the budget, to support the government, the government trying to make the leap faster than wear, as our national poet Odysseus Elytes says. I am sure that all of us together, because our homeland needs united and co-operating, will do our best. Thank you very much for many years and many to all and many good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much. Also, Mr. Comrade. Before the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr Mitarakis comes to Stepma, I should like to inform the House that in the Minutes I am tabling the speech of the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, because of a problem he cannot come to the Chamber. Don't take your mind to evil. That's the problem. With the opportunity to once again wish Mr Placiotakis, the Minister for Maritime Affairs. [[At this point the President-in-Office, Mr Apostle Avdelas, presents for the Minutes the speech by MP II, Piraeus, Mr Ioannis Tragakis, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 504 to 509]] The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Mitarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u411	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 was a year of station in migration. The establishment of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, in which we faced the flows, the applications of the past years especially on our islands, the congestion that existed in the structures of hospitality, the pandemic, the Turkish challenging of Evros and the Aegean. We are regaining control of the migratory crisis, the crisis that disproportionately affected us in the years of the SYRIZA-ANEL conflict. We have moved on to important organisational and legislative changes. Changes that have brought tangible and measurable results. 2020 has been the year with the lowest flows for many years. This year the flow reduction reaches 78% with two thirds of the flows in the first quarter. With regard to our islands in the last six months, flows have fallen by 94%. In the last six months we had three thousand arrivals instead of forty - nine thousand in the corresponding period of 2019. We guard our borders with determination and full respect for international law and European values. Decongestion is no longer just about our islands, but about the whole country. Less than seventy thousand asylum seekers now live in the structures of the whole country with a clear trend towards further decline, while in January they were ninety-three thousand. Also, a large 40% reduction was recorded in the pending examination of asylum applications and a rapid decision-making of 70% this year compared with 2019 has accelerated. Already since the first month of the Ministry's recommendation, we have changed significantly in the existing legal framework, applying a strict but fair immigration policy. We emphasised the strengthening of local societies in particular of the five islands that have taken disproportionate weight in managing the migratory crisis over the years. We have put in place two new financial instruments, with an annual budget of EUR 50 million, firstly, for municipal fees to be paid to the municipalities in the country on the limits of which hospitality structures operate, and secondly, for the financing of projects by the municipalities for the benefit of local communities, but also for the payment of compensation to municipalities and residents and recently we have paid EUR 750,000 and we are open to new requests. We have created a new framework for controlling the functioning and economic activity of non-governmental organisations operating in migration. We restricted the provision of shelter and allowances in the event of a final administrative asylum decision to six months from now. The country cannot give life-long privileges to anyone, but asylum seekers recognised as beneficiaries of international protection are helping them to join the labour market as they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 the budget allocated to the Ministry of Migration and Asylum the sum of EUR 96 million of which 50, more than half, will, as I said, be allocated to municipalities and regions of the country, either as municipal fees, infrastructure or for residents' allowances. Our operating costs for 2021 are therefore estimated at EUR 21 million for remuneration for officials and EUR 25 million for all kinds of operating expenses of the central agency, the asylum service, the first reception service, all structures and special stamps. Also available to the Ministry through the Public Investment Program, the amount of EUR 1 million from the national strand and EUR 30 million through the co-financed part. A key source of funding for our actions for 2021 remains the European Commission, supporting first-serving actions, funding new closed control centres, funding the ESTIA II programme for the accommodation of vulnerable mainly applicants for international protection in housing units, financing the structures for the accommodation of minors, covering part of the human resources of asylum services and first-serving, financing integration actions, such as the HELIOS programme, and of course with fully transparent procedures and information to the House on the largest contracts, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, which we have done twice this year, in 2020. It is a process that has not been implemented in SYRIZA as hundreds of millions of euros have been spent on immigration no competition has been discussed in the appropriate permanent Commission, as required by the Rules of Parliament. And we will proceed to competitions - frameworks directly in force since 2021 for the necessary services and goods needed by the hosting structures. We have already started in 2020 with competitions posted in both Greece and the European Union website to ensure optimal quality and price, as we have reduced prices to several services, such as the 'ESTIA' programme, such as hosting minors with reactions and in and out of the Chamber. We are radically removed from the exceptional and special procurement provisions used almost exclusively by SYRIZA for immigration. For the new European period, the breakdown has been completed in the specific programmes relating to immigration and borders. And in total, Greece will receive 1.5 billion euros in 2021-2027. Ladies and gentlemen, for 2021 the main priorities of the Ministry are: firstly, maintaining very low flows, because we do not want to be Europe's gateway to poachers. Secondly, the drastic reduction in the impact of the migration crisis on local communities. Thirdly, deportations and voluntary returns to those who are not entitled to international protection. Fourthly, the operation of closed controlled structures on the islands, entrance gates and mainland Greece, starting from at least twelve points in 2021. Fifthly, the completion of the national reception system at the points of entry. Sixth, the digital transformation of the asylum process and the legal immigration process. Seventhly, the smooth adaptation of those entitled to international protection with an emphasis on work and not on benefits. And eighth, strengthening legal immigration for the benefit of our country's needs. We are proposing legal immigration instead of the irregular entry of the country through light traffickers. And of course at European Union level, the successful conclusion of negotiations on the new immigration and asylum pact will ensure the security of our borders, the better achievement of expulsions and returns and practical solidarity for the sharing of refugees across the European Union. Our guide is the protection of our country and of Greek society according to the Constitution and international law by implementing, as I said, a strict but fair immigration policy. Ladies and gentlemen, our country, like the planet, has faced an unprecedented pandemic for our generation. Public health protection is our main priority by taking all the necessary measures. I would like to stress that so far, in the migration population by asylum seekers, cases amount to 1% of the applicants, those staying in structures, and we have only one loss of human life since the start of the crisis. Our country has substantially strengthened the ESS with an unprecedented increase in beds and staff, with the EGE and civil protection responding to the challenges. At the same time, every effort has been made with a particularly difficult balance to operate on the market and to limit the 2020 recession as far as possible without putting human lives at risk. The country's great success in the distributions of the Recovery Fund, together with the reforms that we are implementing, will lead to recovery in 2021. With good management of public finances we supported 2020 - and we will continue - the workers, businesses, the weakest, with a strong sense of responsibility towards today and tomorrow in our country. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u412	Like always gentleman with K capital. It's over earlier than ten minutes. Thank you, Minister. The usual suspects asked for the floor. Mr Tsakalotos Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA will speak first and then Mr. Loverdos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Metarakis, I have a few questions for you. First question, you are also a Member of Parliament from an island: What happened to your promise of an election to dismantle the islands? Do you really think Kara Tepe is on this line? That was promised to the islands? Secondly, what do you think of European immigration policy and how it affects us? Are you in line with developments in immigration and with the fact that the Commission and the Visegrad countries and others have almost accepted not to take immigrants, just to give money for repatriation? Is this the Europe that you are visionating? Thirdly, what do you have to say about publications in 'GUARDIAN', 'NEW York TimES' by NGOs, by debates in the European Parliament? from interventions on immigration, on the Socialists in the committee responsible in the European Parliament and denounce that you are far from international law? We also see pictures of how migrants and pushbacks are treated, which are far too far from international law and from European culture. Fourthly, is it closer to the great liberal party or EPE of 1950 when people show the barbarity we see on the islands and how the police are treated and you tell them they are traitors and say they are speaking for Turkey? One MEP, our MEP, Costas Arvanitis tries to highlight, ask and have these complaints. Is that what you want? A country that hides all this and puts it under the rug? You have actually made a speech which has nothing to do with what is being discussed outside Greece about immigration without a sense of criticism. At least, say it's not your fault, that's the connections. And you want to be the great democratic party. In the migratory reminiscent of the 1950 C.E. that you do the blouse and then you find inner enemies that highlight your actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u414	Mr. Loverdo, did he steal your questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u415	The first and only a second, but then it ruined it. Look, Minister, Mr. Metarakis, and as I have heard you, I have heard other ministers with this subject and the previous government say they are doing good. But when a tragic event occurs, then it is with one of all the weaknesses of the system, all the problems, all the shortcomings. And I am not in the mood to criticize on the basis of certain things that I would dream of happening, and I would very much suggest that if we were in the position of your government, we would do so much better and it would all be different. This is nonsense that we have condemned because we paid them this nonsense. However, there are specific things that you do not say, avoid them. Firstly, the ministers of this government have spoken about European policy on immigration, but also the refugee issue of changes that would be and nothing has been done. Margaritis Sponnas came to Greece, the Commissioner for the promotion of European lifestyle and laid the foundations of another policy, and we lost it. As far as the policies of the European Union are concerned, we have not seen any changes. One could tell you from the perspective that sees the problem based on Greece and humanism, both of which, not only one, not just the country or just the immigrants and refugees. Two crosses are raised by the Democrats Europeans on their backs, not one. We are talking from the point of view of both duties which a government has. So we ask you: what has happened to all these ambitious things Mr Kumucasos has told us? Nothing's happened. I ask you, where are you not on the Europeans of immigration? Are the deportations, which you have spoken about, to what extent have they increased? You brought us legislation. Do you know what deportation means? It means that a request for political asylum has been examined and rejected. And so, the road is for someone to go back. Mr. Chakatte, I have to say that because it differentiates us. I thought we were gonna say the same thing. We didn't say the same thing. Europe has some doors. You have to hit them to get in. Is it you to tell us now 'promote legal entry'? Is that a politics? That's obvious. Anyone who wants to enter the country will knock on the door and follow the procedures. And because the phenomenon has an inflation, where the quantity abolishes quality in all legal procedures, I ask you: bring legislation to speed up. The Members of your Parliament went out and said: 'What a good thing you are speeding up!' Has it been speeded up to examine a legal request and if your finding is positive to protect the human being and if it isn't good to return him? But returning him legally, not by night turtles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u416	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u417	No, I'm not done. My colleague spoke twice a year. Let me finish, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u418	Please, Mr. Loverdo, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u419	So we have heard about events, but on the specific issues relating, firstly, to asylum and procedures and, secondly, to European policy, we have not seen any developments at all. Tell me, should we wait for some fire to see the issue of decongestion, some fire, some arson? What about this? And if the islands have been decongested, where have these people been? Because the season accidentally gave you some advantages, he's going to say you won't use it to take the most drastic measures possible? This time with COVID 19 is cutting the flow. Winter cuts the flow. Some more security and participation of Europeans is cutting the flow. The fence in Evros has cut some streams. How do you exploit - in the good sense of the term - at this time, to do what we say? We don't see, Minister, for nothing. Because as you arrived at your speech in the year 2021, you promised the policies you promised last year. Some change we haven't seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much. Immigration and Asylum Minister, Mr Metarakis, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u421	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions on immigration. I spoke with data and described what has happened in 2020, not just what we are planning for 2021. And in 2020, the fall in flows is 78%, in the islands 94%. Asylum decisions adopted increased by 70%. The decongestion of our islands by thirty-eight thousand people in January, today is fourteen thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u422	Final decisions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u423	It's about 40% positive and 60% negative. That is why we have twenty-two thousand people in the HELIOS programme. I therefore presented to you this year in particular what happened to the flows, what happened in the adoption of asylum decisions, what happened to the decongestion of the islands. From thirty-eight thousand, Mr Chakalote, today we have fourteen thousand. This is a 62% reduction. But have you ever wondered why we were confusing the islands? For two reasons: firstly, why the EU-Turkey Agreement in 2016, which your government accepted, set the geographical limitation and prohibited the movement of asylum seekers from the islands to mainland Greece until the decision, the work of the SYRIZA government, has been finalised. The second reason is the very slow asylum legislation, where we changed with Law No4636/2019 to Law No4686/2020 - and that is why we have 70% acceleration - which you voted against, Mr Tsakalote. So don't talk about decongestion. On the subject of European policy, the Visegrad countries fully disagree with the Commission's proposal on the new Pact. Greece also disagrees, because we think it has not yet arrived where it should arrive. Greece disagrees with the proposed agreement, because in the area of solidarity it does not create the mandatory mechanism we want for equal burden sharing. And this is a negotiation which, unfortunately, I say to Mr Loverdo - will last. Today we had the Council of Ministers, the last of the German Presidency, which ultimately did not have a motion for a resolution. We still have a long way to go in Europe to achieve our country's positions. However, this is not a matter that only concerns Greece. It is about the whole of the European Union. On the subject of the various publications you say, Mr Tsakalotes, I think that FRONTEX has been placed, that there is no evidence of relocation. Our country has said so clearly: we are guarding our borders, as the European Regulation imposes and allows us. Now, if you think our country should not guard its borders and reinstate us a million people, as they entered in 2015, we disagree. We consider that we have a responsibility towards the country to protect our borders, which are also a border of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u424	But the European Parliament says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u425	The official statement by FRONTEX is that - according to FRONTEX - there are no elements of re-propulsions. And because you're referring to some articles and photographs, I want to remind you that officially on them a source is the Turkish coastguard. The videos and photos published, their official source is the Turkish coastguard. So there's a matter of objectivity here, too. On the subject of transparency, yes, we fully believe in transparency in how we guard our borders. This is why Greece voluntarily participates in the working party set up at FRONTEX to investigate all these issues and with the participation of other European Union countries. For the new infrastructure that Loverdos said, because we are changing the entire national reception system, in Samos, in Kos and in Lero, the construction site is active and it is a matter of a few months' time to complete these new structures that dismantle Vathi, abolish the structure in Leros and create a more secure structure in Kos. We want to do the same in Lesvos and Chios. You remember the reactions that have occurred. In Mytilini, however, in consultation with the Municipality of Mytilini there is a design. And these works will begin and will be completed within 2021. On the question of refunds, expulsions and relocations, from June to today, we have a positive balance for the first time in our country. They legally leave our country more than those who come. Altogether, nine thousand eighteen asylum seekers have left from 1 January to 1 January, while the flow of fourteen thousand five hundred from 1 January. For the first time, there is a balance between irregular arrivals and legal departures from our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u428	Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u429	I asked for the floor because the Minister did not answer Mr Lover's clear question. Minister, when we discuss and ask questions, the question must be answered. Mr Kumucasos told us that the second best Committee on Asylum in Europe is ours. 60% are irregular immigrants now, illegal, illegal immigrants. As you wish, tell them. Where did these people go? Can you tell us where you put them? Have you put them in the Netherlands where I live, where Athens is filled with a million? Where have you got them? Tell us, so we can understand. They're leaving for their homelands? Leave it to you how many have come and how many have left. Of those who have entered, the one million you said before in 2015, the tens of thousands in the other years, where has 60% of them gone without asylum? That's what we want you to answer. That's what Mr. Loverdos asked. That's what we're asking again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u430	He'll answer you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u431	No, answer. Answer Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Mylonakis won't answer? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u432	First of all, Mr Mylonakis, I am surprised that Mr. Loverdos needs your support. He's a very experienced parliamentarian. If a question hadn't been answered, I'm sure he could have reinstated it on his own. But let me take it as your question, to answer it. Since the beginning of the year, I specifically told you how many people have left our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u433	We don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u434	If you don't care how many people have left...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u435	Sixty percent...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u436	Mr. Mylonakis, he didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u437	I've told you how many people have left. There are, of course, still asylum seekers who have a negative decision to remove. That is why the government is planning and implementing new closed centres so that we can better enable those who are not entitled to international protection to be detained until they are returned. It's a law we voted on. These are projects that are built and within 2021 will have been covered and this infrastructure gap that existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, too. And now we return to the list and go to Thessaly, to the Evangelia Liikolis, MP Larissa of the Change Movement. The following is followed by Ms. Agerinopoulou, Ms. Skoufa, and then by Ms. Rapt, the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u439	What time are we going, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u440	Around 11:00. Here you go, Mrs. Litikoli.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, the country is being tested together with our people. Families are being tested, business is being tested, thousands of people live in distress, our friends, our relatives, within the IDUs themselves, they and the respirators. The dirt of death heavy in the country and life many times just one roll. I bring from Thessaly anguish and pain. A while ago, a young man killed himself in Volos, a businessman in his cafeteria, because he couldn't withstand the consequences of Lockdown. Lambros was the name of a traumatizer who got into a hunger strike at the Larissa University Hospital full of rage because she found a forty-five-year-old woman under her bed in a CIVID clinic in absolute rigidity. No one had found her for hours. At Volos Hospital, the government today abolished the Pulmonary Clinical, sending all recipes to private individuals. With a click and the "bottom" you wiped out all the small traders of the market without considering what this horizontal measure means. Bring through the back door the SAAP. At the same time you close your eyes to the big people and tell the employees "I'll see you later, we'll meet and don't talk." At the same time, while earthquakes, pestilences, famines, oppressions of this country everywhere are plagued, your government is getting it all done well. You bring - and you admire - the praises among yourselves and applaud yourself in a mirror only you see. You handle the pandemic perfectly, you told us. You say that at the summit you have really triumphed. At the same time, you yourself are accepting that, unfortunately, we are not going well at all to the economic aspects of the various sectors, but the budget is excellent. That economic dystopia only you understand, no one else understands. Because the damage is seen by the naked eye and no one needs to have a degree in economics to understand that you have set up a strong game around the finances, but that is not going to come out of you. Statements such as the statement by the Vice-President of the New Democracy that when this pandemic is over, the Greek economy will be as shielded as over the last two hundred years, we can only accept it as a joke or as a spell. And because jokes don't pick up this story, probably as a spell. You want to exult evil and throw it away. We remember the last time you said the economy was shielded. It wasn't far away. It was then in 2008-2009, when the then tsar of Kostas Karamanlis' economy assured us that we should not be afraid of anything, because the economy is well shielded. Of course we all remember what followed - we on our side - and we paid the marble. Unspeakable memorials, greek statistics, range of economic collapse, widespread social unrest and thus the dismantling of the political system, extreme folklore cultures to make their appearance and everyone ask 'Why truth'. I won't hide all this when I think about it deeply, I'm afraid. I am afraid that I understand that the government's financial staff is doing nothing but cut off and sew a record that you are bringing here for communication only. Otherwise, you're day by day, apprentice magicians. You'll leave the people again, you'll leave the ship just before it sinks, and you'll show the next one with the finger. But then I remind you that there was PASOK, the great patriotic party that, you know, did not betray the country, but agreed to put the back under the bar and keep the hand grenade you had taken with her teeth, but we kept her under the bar. Then, when the next one came in 2015, it was not the best option, when hopes were badly shared, but they never came. The bullies didn't ring, the strangers didn't dance pentosal. There's only one gyro, politically decorative, to swing the finger on us today. Your government at the beginning of pandemic wanted to convince us - with a psychological phenomenon of refusal themselves - that everything would be fine. Then you told us that 2% and something you received in July 2019 will fly and go away. After five months just, on Christmas, 2019-2020, about 1%, when the word CIVID was nowhere and the pandemic was scanning nothing in the country, unknown word, came the partial acceptance on the part of the New Democracy that everything is not so blossom. You began to accept reality. Today, when you are faced with the grim economic truth and review for the third time the estimates, predicting a 15% recession for 2020, another first of your own downwards. You promised again in the preliminary draft budget - I remind you - at the beginning of the second Lockdown development for 2021 of the order of 7.5%. And you get that back today. Now you are putting the hopes on the market, the well-known and much-advertised report by the Pissaridis Committee, with all the consequences, the national recovery plan, resilience, a technocratic text, where there is of course no social element, the social dimension of development. Close your eyes to the great and the powerful. You give what you want there, as the 3.7 billion went for the approximately three hundred large businesses, where only 12% are employed there. So he that saves himself must be saved. However, in your budget and as far as my sector is concerned, the port - and you will give it to the Minister for the Interior - has also put it in the Ministry of the Interior, where the port of unreliability has entered a tactical way. Wizard! Let's face it. From the preliminary draft to the draft budget a great distance. In particular, the government's magic presents in only one month and even lockdown, instead of a deficit of EUR 100 million for 2020 and a deficit of EUR 51 million for 2021, a surplus of EUR 80 million in 2020 and a deficit of only EUR 4 million in 2021. But the amazing thing about the case, which everyone we do not know, is that we will also have profits in the local authorities, an increase - the Ministry of Interior tells us - in 2021 in the budget of other OTA revenues from municipal fees of EUR 119 million. I mean, in simple words, as soon as the other one gets the inhaler out of the IF, he's going to pay the city fees. That is what you are saying to the Greek people today. And, of course, the great clouds and innovations with the ADP from the back door, with some small interviews, not for everyone, but for some people, but we'll see who and the budget numbers themselves say you don't respect what you bring, that is, the ADP. The budget itself remains and the budget is lowering even for the digital development of the public. To the posters and the passing people, however, at the "Maximus SA", in the political "cash" of the hundred posters, there you give over 4 million euros. EUR 30 billion is made for EUR 34 billion for 2021. So what's the matter? You tell us. What is this state finally doing with the officials and chiefs who are doing what is the accomplishment? Ladies and gentlemen, what to begin with for your service! The fiasco with the masks - parachute, which the Prime Minister himself said to you, 'Don't be exposed to each other, do you find the political bravery to say who is to blame'? The weakness of the COVID tests? Monitoring the development of pandemic indicators daily? Or is it your final state that cannot coordinate the ministries in the elementary, that is to say, the issue of a ministerial circular? So as apprentice magicians, without gifts to keep, without a star leading you, you only have a compass with a broken index and you run and you don't get there, because you just don't know, you never will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. To take a walk to the Peloponnese, to the Prefecture of Ilias, to Dionysia - Theodora Agerinopoulou, New Democracy. Mrs Agrinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u443	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget we have before us is the most green, digital, social and development budget in recent years. It is also - and it must be - flexible as it takes into account many uncertain factors. These unstable factors are linked to the time of the health crisis and the relaunch of the economy, as well as to any geopolitical challenges and natural disasters due to the pre-determined climate change, with undetermined economic recovery needs. The government has so far successfully, wisely and adequacy with the economic, climate and health crisis and continues to significantly increase the relevant costs, especially for health. The budget provides sufficient funds for both care and vaccination against COVID 19, which will be free of charge for all citizens. The government has rightly devoted more than EUR 31.5 billion to the immediate treatment of the pandemic, of which EUR 7.5 billion will also be made available in 2021, on the one hand, and on the other hand has made sure that it has significant cash reserves to support the real economy, households and businesses affected. Furthermore, the Recovery Fund will be given the opportunity to support new strategic investments in the country. Development will strengthen the economic liquidity programmes, which will continue in 2021, such as the repayable advance, TPIX II and the Guarantee Fund. New prospects will provide traditional financial instruments both from national resources and from the new NSRF. The trust expressed internationally for the country gives us the opportunity to draw new resources from the international market, such as through state bonds, and we should seriously consider going ahead with the issue of a state-owned climate bond. Already other countries, such as Germany and France, have done so successfully. In the same way, we can achieve it. It is the first time that the budget text incorporates the environmental dimension in its economic size, subject to the exercise of the so-called 'green budgeting' or 'the budget'. It harmonizes the budgetary policies of all sectors of public administration by achieving specific environmental protection objectives. This practice is an essential tool for the coherence of sectoral policies and for horizontal integration of environmental and climate objectives in all areas of public action, as well as for achieving our country's international commitments. Our country, therefore, in practice, proves its leadership on environmental issues. Recently with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, he also supported and achieved the commitment of the Member States of the European Union to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 more than 55%. In the same context, the 2021 budget provides for tax and other investment incentives for environmental, energy and climate investments, as well as for the digitisation of services, with a view, inter alia, to reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Additional funds will also be available from the Fair Transition Fund for the maintenance of jobs in areas supporting ligniteification. At the same time, the budget is characterized by a strong social character. This is, indeed, a socially just budget, which provides support for our fellow citizens who need it. It increases the basic and social benefits, increases the state's contribution to insurance and pension funds and reduces taxation. It thus supports the real economy and every individual citizen and creates employment prospects for those who do not have work and above all for our young people. In Elias, a law with a high unemployment rate which is even more pronounced among women and young people, we are determined to make use of the new pro-investment framework that the government has created and to attract strategic investments to our region. Similarly, we will also make use of the transnational agreements concluded by the government. I would mention, for example, that in the framework of the use of the Greek-United States Agreement for the cooperation of Greek and American universities we are creating an umbrella of universities based in Ancient Olympia, in order to attract educational establishments of national and foreign in our county, more teachers and students, and to strengthen both the local economy and the intellectual creation of which was always an inspiration and which was even today Elia and Olympia. Finally, we send out a message to all our fellow citizens from Elias: in the effort to reconstruct our country, no one should be missing. It is important that each one of us contributes. With confidence in our forces and in the stability government that we have before us, let us take advantage of the opportunities that this government offers us. Let us make use of the new reform framework and new funding and let us each contribute, as we can, to the development of our country because Greece deserves it. I am therefore voting in favour of the 2021 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Mrs. Agerinopoulou. You are the pleasure of the President-in-Office, because you always close two minutes earlier! And we're going to northern Greece, to Katerini, to Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr President. ‘ Eight days at CIVID 19 Hospital of Katerini. Maybe the most dense medical days and hours of my life. Surely the bitterest. More than ninety hospitalized patients daily, more than a hundred forty in total, dozens of deaths, continuous invasions. One noon we gave seven creditions, their beds were full again in the afternoon. We kept sick at the TLP even thirty-six hours until we got a bed at the clinic. A lot of spaces, because they didn't fit anywhere. Many relatively young people up to forty-five years old. Forty-five to sixty years old. Save me, Doctor. I have kids to grow up. Your heart was broken. Many deficiencies mainly in qualified medical staff, without a pneumonologist, too many medical patients with CIVID at the same time, recruited all specialties in the hospital. But what can they provide for the heavy pneumonia of COVID doctors with non-relevant skills? In hospitals in large cities there are plenty of doctors. We in Athens live in another reality, away from the grim reality of prefecture hospitals, where the health system cannot respond to this huge load of so many patients with pneumonia at the same time." These are written by a doctor of a pneumonologist who visited the Hospital of Katerini, in a prefecture that still boils in cases, in a prefecture that may have exceeded both Athens and Thessaloniki by the end of November. Eight days were left for the two doctors, the loaners, who came from Athens. That's how the Department of Health accepted our city hospital! After three questions that I have asked since spring this year to the Ministry and which all three left unanswered, after the angular cries, we would also say that requests from the administration of the hospital, the doctors, the nurses! Shame and shame. This word describes the situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have failed miserably at all levels. You have failed to manage the pandemic. Within a month we have three thousand deaths. We have a negative record in relation to the average European level and in view of this, you are reducing public health expenditure by EUR 572 million, plus EUR 10 million minus the Public Investment Programme. You reduce transfers to the EEA by EUR 308 million. EEA expenditure shall be reduced by EUR 242 million. You failed, however, at the level of the economy, as our national economy recorded a new deep recession of 11.7% in the third quarter of 2020, which brings it to the last place in Europe. This is because you have not taken the appropriate measures in time, despite our pressures and proposals. In 2020, with your own forecasts, we will close with a recession of 10.5%, one of the greatest declines across Europe, if not the biggest one. Reducing business turnover by 62% in the third quarter of 2020. Citizens' debts have been evacuated, EUR 2.5 billion new debts have been created, plus EUR 1.6 billion in debts due to deferrals. You yourself predict that there will be a growth of 4.8% of the year. Sadly, a total-time projection, with a recession of 10.5% this year. So, at best, next year, we'll have a 40% replacement. I very much ask all Greeks and Greek women to study carefully the table thirty - thirty on pages thirty - seven to thirty - nine in the budget report. No aid for tourism workers is provided for in the budget for 2021, no aid to seasonal workers, free traders, scientists, long-term unemployed, culture, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises and employees. No extra costs for permanent recruitment of doctors. A lot has been heard these days about the EUR 32 billion of the Recovery Fund, which will clearly be a crucial support for our national economy. However, funds of EUR 12.5 billion from the Recovery Fund will be leveraging with 20% of the private sector and 40% through bank lending. We come to the huge problem of banking lending in Greece, the huge problem of access for small and medium-sized enterprises to finance should be here the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, to tell us how he comments on the findings of the European Commission's annual investigation into access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. What does this investigation show us? That access to funding is judged by the Greek companies in the sample as the main problem of 22%, when the average in Europe amounts to 10%. The survey records that 30% of companies in Greece said they did not use a bank loan in the last six months. Equally worrying is that a 30% of Greek small and medium-sized enterprises say that the main reason why lending is not compatible with the company is the high interest rates offered. This is a long list of the highest in the European Union. Does the subsidies make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises? Only three out of ten companies in Greece claim to have benefited from the subsidies. So in the question, if grants or subsidised loans have been used over the last six months, only 27% of Greek companies have said that they have exploited relevant tools, whereas 73% of Greek small and medium-sized enterprises have not used or been unable to make use of these financial instruments. If all of these elements, the deafening elements are not concerned with Mr Georgiadis or the government as a whole, they are largely concerned about the Greek society. They are also concerned by the self-government blue executives who say that our businesses and our economy are literally hanged by a thread. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society can't stand it anymore. Our only hope for Greece is that the change in the direction of the self-destructive government, the change in government level, before it is too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Health, Mrs Zoe Rapti, is called at Step. Here are Mr. Baraliakos, Mr. Avramakis, Mr. Economou and Mrs. Arabatzi. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in recent months our Government has been called upon to deal directly with the unprecedented threat to public health caused by the rapid spread of COVID -19. At the same time, however, it was called upon to manage effectively any form of social and economic life that was affected. And he did it successfully. He made decisions in time, had full information and trusted the experts. That is why Greece remains today among those states that apply strict restrictions, but have fewer COVID cases than other states, as all figures show. In a few months significant structures of the ESS have changed slowly. After the low health budgets in previous years, including the period of SYRIZA governance, in 2020 the spending of the Ministry of Health increased by 20%, hired an ancillary staff of seven thousand health workers and more than doubled the MIT beds, a real rally that corrected over decades. I will regret the previous one, Ms Skoufa, but under the SYRIZA government health expenditure was reduced, namely, in 2018 it was EUR 3,849 billion, in 2019, on our own government EUR 4,41 billion and now it is EUR 4,829 billion, including EUR 786 million from the country's reserves. Creitton speaks slowly, then! The government, however, continued the difficult task and practically supported our fellow citizens. It stimulated work and income, which were seriously affected. And he did, as the Prime Minister said, almost socialist, giving EUR 23.9 billion in 2020, while another EUR 7.5 billion is expected to be provided in 2021. The budget under discussion is therefore social and developmental. It retains all social benefits, pensions and State wages, without including new taxes, and adds what is needed to tackle the health crisis and strengthen workers and businesses. As far as the Ministry of Health is concerned, expenditure in 2020, as I said, increased by EUR 788 million compared to 2019. For 2021 the Minister of Finance pledged that we will make available to the Ministry of Health anything required to support even more effectively the battle to tackle the health crisis, with the top of the national vaccination campaign against the coronary which we recently voted by a overwhelming majority in this House. One of the most important priorities for the Ministry of Health is mental health. The year we spend the world pandemic appeared in a troubled and underfunded landscape of mental health. The drastic and necessarily restrictive measures taken to deal with the pandemic led to a new reality, which further exacerbated the mental health of the citizens, as recorded in all scientific studies. That is why the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has created a special portfolio aimed at modernising the mechanism of providing the services concerned and promoting innovative policies that will contribute to the socio-social coverage of the general population and strengthening vulnerable social groups. In particular, in the Ministry of Health we are immediately implementing a series of actions with immediate priority the psychosocial support programmes to address the psychological consequences of COVID -19. In particular, we operate on a 24-hour basis on the 10306 psychosocial support line. It is a free channel of communication that informs citizens anonymously and confidentially seeking counselling, while being managed by trained mental health professionals in collaboration with the First University Psychiatric Clinic of Egypt, the Federation of Psych health institutions "APPO" and the "Smile of the Child". We create further psychological support programs using a telemedicine platform for patients who are hospitalized or under house arrest, for their family members and for the health staff of our hospitals, which during the pandemic period every day is struggling to save the lives of our fellow citizens and reach the limits of their emotional and physical exhaustion. For their great work, I thank them from my heart. We posted on the Ministry's website how to deal with the psychological consequences of COVID -19 as first mental health aid. We are developing further remote social support programmes for the general population with emphasis on the unemployed, patients with chronic illnesses and their families, as well as on children and adolescents. We support with the recruitment of psychiatrists the mental health structures of the country that had been declined, as I personally found in my multiple visits to the psychiatric clinics and mental health centres of the ERC. Procedures shall be speedy in accordance with Article 28 of Law 4737/2020. In relation to dependencies we create a national network for addictions to those who have a problem with abuses, using alcohol and pathological gambling, the network and the gaming. To this end, in addition to the functioning of the existing structures of the CECE, we create new structures and services by expanding access to help and strengthening social inclusion and treatment. Already started and operate five multi-powered centers in Rhodes, Tower, Nafplio, Kalamata and Chios, and since the beginning of 2021, four more and also mobile units have been set up to support dependents and drugs living in areas outside the urban fabric. We further develop short-lived support structures for patients with autism and dementia throughout Greece and create distance education programs and support for both their family and caregivers. We recommend timely psychosis intervention units to ensure early detection of symptoms of mental disorder at their early stage of occurrence in adolescents and young people from sixteen to twenty-five years of age to ensure that our children receive effective treatment and have a real chance in a healthy mental life. We are setting up conference centres aimed at providing mental health services to the university's student population in order to enhance their resilience to address modern challenges. In the context of the state psychiatric reform, we are planning and implementing a digital map of mental health services to improve the accessibility of our fellow citizens to these services. We incorporate urban non-profit companies, basic structures, i.e. the provision of mental health services for the first time in the electronic health monitoring system of the country, the famous BI of the Ministry of Health, so we strengthen their transparency and accountability. Finally, in OKANA, we are implementing sixteen projects financed by the NRP, which have remained inert and we are creating eighteen structures, five multi-powered centres to deal with drug addictions and addictions, one unit for alcohol, five mobile units and six homeless days centres and not in Attica, Thessaloniki and Patras. Finally, we draw up a new seven-year programme agreement on the operation of the prevention and dependency centres currently operating in the municipalities with the participation and cooperation of the OKANA, the Ministry of Interior, the EBRD and the CEDEFOP in order to implement coordinated actions and to integrate them into an integrated information system for the transparency of their operation. We are developing the national anti-drug action plan with a view to being presented by the national coordinator within the first quarter of 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, today at the Ministry of Health we are making every effort to redefined on a solid basis the future of psychiatric reform in the midst of the health crisis. Our country and people need a new national action plan on mental health with a decade-long horizon, which we will present in 2021. We seek to respond to both existing and emerging needs of the population with the experience of the important program "SYCHARGO" to provide modern and effective mental health services. Our aim is to strengthen prevention, strengthen the effective integration of mental health in primary care, support for demilitarisation, combat the stigma, encourage community integration. For these reasons with the budget we are increasing expenditure on mental health and rehabilitation services for 2021 by 62% from EUR 34 million to EUR 58 million, in practice proving that we are seeking, together with the extraordinary revenue, to reach the disposal of 2% of the total expenditure on mental health, in line with the objective of the World Health Organisation. The portfolio will be further strengthened by an amount from the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, to which we have submitted relevant proposals for funding population support actions in remote areas of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of our policy is to ensure access to quality mental health services for a life with health and dignity. Our intention at the Department of Health is not to leave anyone alone, not to leave anyone behind. With these thoughts, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote in favour of the State budget of 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u448	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rapt. Mr. Xenophon (Lighting) is called in Stepma in the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u450	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u451	My colleague should forgive me, but I've been here for four days. I have said so in my speech, and I will repeat it today, because I hear colleagues from the Qualified Opposition who speak about financial instruments and question them. I said in my speech - and I repeat now - that we have taken steps to support businesses, workers and the unemployed, but for the financial tools you mentioned earlier, Madam President, like Mrs Evros, I will give you some information on some of the laws. In general, we have taken measures and made EUR 24 billion for 2020 and EUR 7.5 billion for the first months of 2021, a total of EUR 31.5 billion. These measures include the provision of liquidity to enterprises through financial instruments, such as the repayable advance of EUR 5,54 billion, the working capital under the Entrepreneurship Fund, TPIX II, amounting to EUR 2 billion, and the Guarantee Fund of the Greek Development Bank of EUR 5,2 billion, totalling EUR 12,7 billion. To go to three counties. First of all, I shall refer to the Evros acronym. These figures are until 3-12-2020, Mr President. Guarantee and TEPIX II EUR 39,990,000 in the Prefecture of Evros. Refunded to five thousand twenty-one, 31.909.000 euros. Special-purpose compensation for four thousand seven hundred sixty-eight companies - these are the ones alone - EUR 4,832,000. Special purpose allowances for workers, job suspensions, Easter gifts, unilateral tourism, 'COM WORK', amounting to EUR 13 270,000. A total of 90 million euros for the Acritical Prefecture of Evros. Let's go to Pieria. Guarantee and TEPIX II EUR 46,712,000. A repayment of six thousand six hundred eighty-sixty-nine companies - those companies that you could not find before - EUR 51,776 000. Special-purpose compensation for six thousand four hundred seventy-seven businesses 6,947,000 euros. Special purpose allowance, suspension to workers, etc., EUR 15 666 000. Overall in your prefecture 121.113,000 euros. And go to Imathia County. Guarantee and TEPIX II EUR 54,193.000. Reimbursement of six thousand to twenty-two businesses EUR 42.180,000. Special-purpose compensation for five thousand four hundred ninety-nine businesses EUR 5.396,000. Special purpose compensation, job suspensions, Easter gift, unilateral tourism, "DON-WORK", another EUR 11,549,000. Total in the Prefecture of Imathia 113,000 euros. That is what we are doing with the financial instruments you have questioned a moment ago. We supported society, businesses, workers and the unemployed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr. Besiropoulos. Mr. Baraliacos has the floor from Katerini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u453	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to discuss and ratify the country's state budget for 2021, under conditions of an unprecedented pandemic that shocks the planet, with millions of personal dramas, plunges the uncertainty and fear of people's lives and shocks the resistance of national economies on a global scale. These are the conditions and challenges of recent months and within that framework we are discussing the country's budget, which is realistic and social law. The overcoming of the crisis is a matter of urgency. However, our figure is still pro-investing and developmental. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I would like to remind you of your political attitude in the first phase of the pandemic, where with the well-known opposition bid and the memorableness that it sees you, you insisted on the slogan 'give it all here and now'. Your hasty president wanted to share all the cash from the first day of the crisis, not even knowing the basic data, how long the pandemic, its vigour, and the depth of the crisis that will bring to the economy, will last. But political realism prevailed in populism. With wisdom and awareness of our responsibility towards the citizens, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance followed a strategy to divide and manage cash in the long term, so that we can support the citizens affected at all stages of the pandemic and continue for as long as necessary. You are, in fact, so clinging to your ideas that you cannot understand how we increase revenue in the state's budget by EUR 3.2 billion without increasing taxes. It seems in your vocabulary that there is no concept of growth, investment, production or exports. Either disperse make news in your knowledge or you don't understand that growth can bring income and prosperity for all. In 2020, ladies and gentlemen, we reduced taxation, introduced tax incentives for investment, which come to Greece to lever their capital, we strengthened liquidity, we supported labour and employment. With effect from 1 January of the new year, insurance contributions will be further reduced by three percentage points, a arrangement which you did not vote on, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, while the constant reduction in taxes at all levels remains an endless strategic option in the mix of our economic policy. We have created new financial instruments from scratch to support from the start of the crisis for small and medium-sized enterprises and households, thanks to prudent and rational financial management. We supported them and we will not stop doing so. The public health bet remains the highest priority for us. As much money will be given and in 2021. I would remind you that 2020 has provided EUR 783 million outside of the budget, and so will we do the new year without discounts, because for us human life is over economic sizes. At the same time, we are increasing spending on education by EUR 142 million, since investment in the future of our children and new generations must never stop. Also, our government has adopted a pro-agricultural policy in support of the pandemic sectors affected by the rural economy, we have also included the professional farmers in the fourth repayable advance and we take care that we do not leave anyone exposed to the consequences of the crisis. The crisis has also highlighted the dynamics of the primary sector. With targeted initiatives by the Ministry of Rural Development, new markets have been opened and for the first time after years, the export balance has been a surplus of EUR 227 million, while the food supply chain has been exemplary in the midst of a pandemic, with no shortages and with the usual high quality of Greek products. In all this, ladies and gentlemen, we are planning an ambitious armament programme with an increase in the state budget for national defence. At a time of destabilisation in the wider region, our country remains a pillar of security and credibility for the Eastern Mediterranean and our allies. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis himself, has stressed many times, the pandemic must not be a brake on the reforms. Instead, it must encourage their faster and more effective promotion. And indeed a lot, which has not taken place for decades, took place in 2020, with a crown of the digital revolution that we are experiencing every day. The digital transformation of the state machine, the new-born business register, the arrival of the 5G, and much more is our deposit for the next generation. We have caught up with the Fourth Industrial Revolution train, and we aspire to become pioneers. I firmly believe that investment in new technologies is the power multiplier for our national economy, which will open the door to economic prosperity and national power. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that we are experiencing genuine historical times and times of trial for our country in an international environment where the correlations of power, stabilization factors and balances are violently reorientated. Our country is the only guide for our policy. We are struggling to get out of this crisis unscathed, with the fewest possible losses. We will fight for a stronger and more prosperous Greece, which will radiate confidence and security. Unbelievably, with design and ethics, we are working to overcome this difficulty together, as we do every time history protects it. Merry Christmas, health to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, too. The Deputy Serres of SYRIZA Mr. Avramakis Eleftherios is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our country, like the whole world, is faced with an unprecedented health crisis. The debate around the world revolves around the need to strengthen the public health system, both in order to tackle pandemic and for the future. But in the country of the careless, reassured, surprised and unsuccessful Prime Minister and out-of-truth government everything is done on the contrary. The government claims it has managed to deal with the health crisis despite the thousands of dead. He doesn't see that the hospitals crossed the line of endurance. He doesn't see that doctors and nurses, who fight the battle every day, are exhausted. It does not recognise that this system needs financial aid and the government provides for a reduction in the budget for the public health system of about EUR 600 million in 2021. What can citizens expect from this government, which in practice announces that it will restrict the public health system, at least financially, before the pandemic is over? What can the people of Serres and Serres Hospital, who have been unjustly waiting for a year and a half to strengthen the hospital, come to doctors in critical specialties long before the pandemic and who do not come all these months, despite the supposed promise to strengthen the ERC? We are talking about a prefecture that mourns the loss of more than sixty people in the pandemic and a hospital subordinated, such as most hospitals in the country and, especially in northern Greece, without doctors in basic specialities for a long time, despite the voices and people of the hospital, but also us as Antipolitics. Only four doctors came in lately, two plus two, from the Attica Hospital and the "YAO" to assist in the response and after we had huge losses in human lives. The government has not only failed to deal with the health crisis, so that we have more than three thousand dead in one month and have the negative record in relation to the European average per 100 000 people but also failed to support the economy. We are faced with the second worst recession in Europe. Perhaps we have the greatest reduction in the incomes of Greek households. We have a terrible growth in unemployment and half-employment, despite the creative accounting of the Ministry of Labour. We are the country that spent the smallest real sums on the real economy. Mr Vésyropoulos has previously analysed the measures taken by the government. Yes, you have taken some measures towards either the repayable advance or the special-purpose compensation for workers and businesses. However, these measures are ‘bone in the ocean’. And these measures are based and are money from the "cushion" that SYRIZA government with the sacrifices of the Greek people left you in the funds, the 37 billion euros. The government, however, is not just trying to save the shops of the real economy, small and medium-sized shops, but is preparing to implement the most extreme redeployment of the economy, insisting that the number of enterprises must be reduced to increase competitiveness. It does not care what happens in areas like Serres Prefecture, which no one knows how many businesses will close or how many people will start after Lockdown. In these circumstances, you are voting for a virtual, fake and provocative budget, since, in the midst of a pandemic and economic crisis, you are reducing expenditure on public health and the social state and you are predicting increased revenues from the taxation of citizens, by waiving the well-known saying 'unlike you get it'. You are voting for this budget in a year where there is a recession of over 10%, the debt will be raised to 208% of GDP, the budget deficit will reach EUR 16.5 billion, with a private consumption where we will have a reduction of less than 6.7% and an increase in unemployment. In these circumstances, you are forecasting a recession of 10.5% for 2020, when in Serres Prefecture the recession is already much higher, after the high precipitation of consumption in the festive period. You forecast growth for 2021 of 4.8%, and no one knows when the market will open. You anticipate an increase in tax revenues of around EUR 5 billion. You forecast that natural persons will pay 2021 more taxes than 2020, despite the fact that tax declarations submitted for 2020 income will reflect the appalling reduction in incomes for most taxpayers. How will this development come to the place? The Serres Prefecture will certainly not come with the current policies that you are implementing. In the Serres Prefecture, the only thing to come is greater poverty and greater migration of young people. We're asking. Development for whom and how? With what development plan? With what schedule? With the Pissaridis plan? How will growth come in Serres Prefecture and other regional counties? By concentrating the market on a few strong and strong? With the concentration of agricultural and livestock production in the hands of a few? With the concentration of houses and houses in the hands of a few, which will bring the new bankruptcy law that you recently voted on? You anticipate a 4.8% growth, while no one can appreciate when and under what conditions will the heavy industry of Greece begin to restore, Greek tourism. Do you have the impression that in the summer of 2021 will be equivalent to the summer of 2019? That fear will disappear around the world and choose to travel to foreign countries, as was the case before the pandemic? Have you ever appreciated the damage you caused in the country with the final mess this summer in opening tourism and the way that Mr. Mitsotakis made from Santorini? In fact, you only anticipate minimum costs for dealing with the pandemic in 2021. You have tabled a budget that assumes that the pandemic will be gone along with the old year. You are providing for zero reinforcement of the municipalities to tackle pandemic and support society. You are still seeing the huge financial problems caused to farmers and farmers by the slump in sales for nine months, without doing anything. In order to deal with the consequences of the pandemic, farmers and farmers have been allocated EUR 150 million by the Ministry of Rural Development and it is estimated that by the end of 2020 it will have spent around EUR 80 million, a little over half. For 2021, you do not see a single euro for farmers and farmers. How do you think primary production will survive with this government policy? I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Rural Development, Mrs Arabatzi, about the presence of the State Secretary for Rural Development. Instead of reducing agricultural oil, you are making a three-minute increase, increasing production costs. I want you to tell us today from the Stepma what you have to say about the treasury-gathering in Serres Law, to which, and in the first phase of the agreement you made with the investor, you said and said that 'we will have a reopening of the sugar factory and we will finally have a production of Greek sugar'. We saw, however, that this was not the end of the day. And despite the late celebrations in September in the Ministry of Development's agreement on the price of agreement with farmers for the absorption of their production, we finally saw that they were led to individual contracts and that beet were received at a much lower price than that agreed between business-enterprises and farmers. This is all due to answers, Mrs Arabaji. And so are cotton growers for the loss of income and tobacco growers in the county. The New Democracy insists on the same wrong policy that led to the bankruptcy and poverty of the Greek people. This budget now proves to everyone that the government's aim is to reduce wages, to overthrow the public insurance system, to eliminate small and medium-sized enterprises, to eliminate farmers and farmers with small or medium sized production potential. The government's political priorities are the poverty of the middle class, the tax extermination of citizens and the provocative concentration of all capital in the hands of a few. We in this economic and social armagedon promoted by the government, say 'no' and call on the Greek people to resist. We call on the progressive forces to react. We call on the Greek society together to claim a strong social state capable of meeting all health, insurance and education needs. We call on the Greek society to become involved in a fight for social justice, for investment in work, for rescue and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, for genuine support for farmers and farmers. We call for fair growth, with new jobs, with investment in innovation and new technologies, with respect for the work of the freelance professional, with a specific plan for reconstruction and development for each county and each region, based on local needs and specialities. I am voting against this budget because it is unrealistic. It does not reflect the real economy and most likely that the Ministry of Finance is already working on its review. I am voting against this budget because it does not respond to any real need for the Greek people. It has nothing to do with the real economy. It does not even take into account what can be predicted for the next few months. I am voting against this budget, because also for Serres Prefecture, more poverty, more isolation, more deforestation. In the face of the Pissaridis project, which is a neoliberal cutting project, which includes wage reductions and pensions, which includes more flexible forms of employment and a abolition of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, we are confronting our proposals as SYRIZA, a "anti-Pissaridis" project which is condensed in five main lines of intervention. In a fair green transition with society, the change in the country's productive model, the strengthening of labour with emphasis on the work of young people and women, the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, the fair digital transition, social cohesion and resilience, and, lastly, regional cohesion, urban and rural regeneration. In conclusion, we are voting against this budget, which I believe is already doomed in the conscience of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u456	Thank you very much, Mr Avramakis. Members of the New Democracy I East Attica Mr. Vassilios Economou are called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u457	By voting, Mr President, the budget - the top legislature of the year for the Greek Parliament - is not a question of who votes or who votes against. These are the typical necessities, the party necessities. The crucial thing for me is that everyone can understand the criticality and historicality of the moments and through this stigma that each and every one of us will give, be able to place politically on the great problems of the country. The budget, as a top legislative initiative, is not just a number of figures and statistics. It is basically a list of the policies and plans of each party and the political class of the country. And that's where everyone is judged. I think that the historic eruptions which we have seen since 1974, namely those forty-six years of democracy and peace for the Hellenic Republic, for the Greek state, together with the great challenges, such as the entry of the country into the EEC, after the European Union and the euro, but also the Greek bankruptcy ten years ago, are issues which determine the historicity of the country's course after the dictatorship. And if everyone does not understand, that 2020 was a critical, a special year, it really does not matter and it is important to discuss micro-political controversies on statistics. If we do not understand each and every political force, that 2020 was a scary year and in history it will be recorded in this way, with all the problems and dilemmas that each political force has put forward, we will actually collect what it will do in its analysis. In other words, it was really a year that combined cases and possibilities, on the part of the country, in dealing with the Greek-Turkish crisis, pandemic, economic recovery after eight years of monumental policies and in dealing with migration flows, which drowned the country. Four huge issues within a year! These themes defined the political life of the country, the social life of the country, the economic life and, indeed, determined whether political leaderships were able to understand what happened, what responses they gave, what a plan they were entitled to have for the future, what we say "recognition of the Greek people and history". I think that the historian of the future, seeing how political leadership reacted in this critical year, will really wonder how, suddenly, this Greek state, which has not demonstrated particularly reflexively, was able to have this organized plan to deal with this four elements too, precisely when combined with a catastrophic one - would say - possibly. In other words, I really wonder what life would have been like in the country and how we would have been discussing today if we had stayed in this glazed and relaxed picture of the five hundred intensive beds, that is, a case that not only could you not face the pandemic, but could not be faced with the current medical need of the country, the health need of the country. There's Andreas Loverdos here, who had served as Minister of Health. In fact, it was time-consuming and inter-transitional responsibility that in 2019 we reached the five hundred ICUs, i.e. not being able to face the country's car crash and brain, not a pandemic. The need, will you tell me? The historical need, will you tell me? The plan that has been formed, will you tell me? Today, with the thousands of two hundred intensive intensities, you can face the pandemic. This possibility and strengthening of the National Health System has been achieved by this centre-right government, which you do not believe on the left or on the right. But this government, in fact, has supported the National Health System and today we can say that within this Armageddon, our country is facing dignity, with seriousness and determination, against the sad statistics of our neighbouring countries, Europe, the world - with tens of thousands of dead and casualties - this pandemic on terms which are for the Greek citizen, for the Greek society still open. Today we're talking, we can say we still stand. It's the people standing up, the country standing. And that's a terrible achievement. And this achievement someone has guided it, a political leadership. The plan of Mr. Mitsotakis, his government, enabled us to stand. And what time? While the fleet is prolonged in the Aegean Sea, while in Evros we stopped this invasion, while fighting to support the Greek society, the Greek entrepreneurship, the Greek professional. I have listened very carefully to the Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, answering colleagues who have probably not taken a scent for their prefectures. But EUR 24 billion in 2020 was not a brave, socially just support for Greek society? And these EUR 24 billion are currently in second place, at least, protecting jobs in Europe. These achievements, these possibilities, so that we can say today that we have the possibility - why do we have the plan - to give the spoon to 2021 with the EUR 7 billion of support, which is a package of support - breath for the Greek society, do not recognize them? Can't they experience them? They don't live in society? Don't they talk to professionals and businessmen? Aren't they in society? I guess not. That is why the Greek society, with its answerable and continuous measurements, shows a huge gap. It is not a question of doing our party duty and going up to the Step and saying I am voting or voting. The question is whether we understand what society is saying. When all measurements say that there is a huge gap of SYRIZA with the Greek people, much larger than the 2019 elections, that means that its representatives are not moving within society, they do not understand what is happening. In other words, these EUR 24 billion that fell decisively in 2020, they have not understood them, they have not learned the news yet. And that's really amazing! It is amazing that there are no political forces to participate in the social process. To conclude, Mr President, I will not say that I am voting for the budget, because I believe that the issue of the budget, of the top law - as I have said - is self-evident that I am voting for it as a Member of the House. I say that these historic scaffolding will enable us to record whether political leaderships are able to record in the history of time. And I think that Kyriakos Mitsotakis and his government give him the guarantees to say that they really gave and answered the jewels of the time. They have given solutions, given the plan, and we have spent this worst year in the past decades in a way that we can say they have kept the people upright. This will have to say the man of the future whether he is a historian or an analyst or is he simply who will look back and say, 'What happened in 2020 in Greece'. And he'll say - I think - what I told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr. Economou. Mrs Fotini Arabatzi, State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 is being recorded as the year of the global unprecedented pandemic of all three major crises for our country. That is why we need little respect and modesty when one speaks of this Step by the time when fellow humans give us the battle for their lives in the intensive, while friends and relatives suddenly lose their fellow humans. It is therefore a proof of populism, of the detestable political investment, which is unfortunately being attempted by Opposition, to the misery created by this global crisis. It turns out the Ragosia press division that came to say that policemen became hated in society and that their children are supposedly ashamed to say their parents are police officers. Not only are they not ashamed, Mr Ragosi, but they are proud as we are of our pride for our policemen and, of course, they are proud of our medical and nursing staff. This, of course, is also the great warning difference in our fact that, in other words, in the crises and in this three-fold crisis, we are proposing the power of national unity and of collective effort. This is why it has proved that the effectiveness of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is dense in the waters of the Aegean Sea, in Evros, in the economic and health management of the coronary. A government that combines management adequacy, successful control over multiple modern fronts with clear reformist, pro-investment, development orientation, social sensitivity and great strategic choices in foreign and defence policy. The numbers prove it. Multi-faceted business support - the Minister was in detail earlier - and the workers with EUR 24 billion in 2020 and EUR 7.5 billion in 2021, the substantial reduction in taxes and insurance contributions, the attraction of investment by companies that no one could even think a few years ago, such as MICROSOT, PFIZER, CVC for food, visionary strategic alliances and the upgrading of our country's geopolitical position. Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Mr Mitsotakis wants and can. It is seen and confessed by society. Our farmers, farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen and our beekeepers are seeing this every day. In 2020 we wanted and were able to support all the producers who were affected by the coronary crisis, but also the great naturalities. I will say that for the first time in time a record of the ELGA was given to the affected by 'January'. For the first time in the year, the arrangement allowing the Ministry of Rural Development to contribute to the ELGA budget so that all the allowances in 2019 were paid when on your day, Mr. colleague, the farmers were paid for years by the ELGA. We supported farmers and farmers by restoring thousands of agricultural land, Mr Colleague, which you - with your pro-agricultural policy - have described as forests. And I would remind you that in Serres Prefecture, for which you have shown particular interest in agricultural matters, only by advanceing the basic payment of rights was given to the Serres farmers and farmers EUR 766 000 more than last year, because these so-called forest areas of your own government were declassified. To say that we have retained the allowance for those employed in agricultural work, effectively subsidising the work. We abolished the trade end and of course put farmers in the repayable advance. We have managed to hit Greeks by tightening sanctions and new draconian penalties. Obviously, the historical rise in prices of sheep and goat milk that has actually collapsed in your day has this policy abrupt. We passed an Easter 2020 with actually being the first without baptism of imported lambs and eggs. We dismantled Greeks in honey and eggs. We have placed on the map the development of aquaculture, this forgotten sector that achieves all the objectives of the Pissaridis Committee. It is the country's first exportable agricultural product competing with oil, it attracts large foreign investments, it has increased size of a Greek business. We managed to support it in two ways, putting an end to the companies - 'zombies' which are bleaking inactively valuable public resources available and making a cut in the marine landfill, substantially running the twenty-four of the twenty-five areas of organized development that the SYRIZA government has inherited and already in our hands the Presidential Decree signed for Kefalonia, while still running much more in the Council of State. We put back on farmers with the EUR 31 million only for the coronary, with exemplary management in the big crisis of African swine fever. You know, the one that because of it has been depopulated to Member States - Member States of the European Union and, of course, to our borders with Bulgaria. And obviously with the prognosticity and the plan that we have developed, we have just had a case and that is random in the Serres region. There was finally the establishment of the interprofessional feta, the sometimes "bridge of Arta" and a dance of interbranch organizations, which one after another sends the file for recommendation to the Ministry of Rural Development, and believes in the power of reasoning. Also, the inclusion of eggs in the “ARTEMIS” system as another weapon against Greekizations. We were aiming to strengthen exports and food and agricultural products by removing paper and going to the digital era, for exporters of dynamic animal products such as honey, dairy products in large countries such as the United States, Australia, Canada. We are evoking the message that the very good export performance of food and agricultural products in 2020 at the rate of increase to 12.5% in October, when in our competitors countries, for example in Italy, they experienced a 27% drop in exports in March and April 2020, is the most important deposit for 2021 and imminently. For food, which accounts for a quarter of our industry, more than twice the European average, is indeed the catalyst to achieve the national objective declared by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the increase in exports from 38% of GDP to 48% of GDP in 2023. Besides, he's not just a visionary target. There is evidence, ladies and gentlemen, of the positive trade balance after too many years due to this rapid increase in our food exports. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 for the Ministry of Rural Development is a station with basic tools, of course, the resources for the Recovery Fund and the money for the transitional period of the new CAP. Because the coronary crisis has proved a great deal that the food sector is the basket to put eggs beyond tourism. Because it is the one that, as confirmed by the report by the Pissaridis Committee, is of crucial importance for the Greek economy, with the added value of 6.6% of GDP as against 3.5% of the European average. Our central priorities are, of course, to strengthen livestock farming with a peak in mountainous extensive ovine and caprine farming, as confirmed by the data, is multiplier value. 13% of livestock farms produce 31% of total agricultural production. Reinforcement of livestock by the law - a section that we bring for their planning, the legalisation of clutch accommodation and the reduction of construction costs to one tenth of the current situation. The reform of the National Apiculture Electronic Register, which will, for the first time in time, record on paper the domestic production of this important sector, the apiculture sector. The extension of the digital export platform to third countries and plant production products. The reconstruct and domination of the Greek trade mark in the products. Ladies and gentlemen, Barack Obama has said that the budget is not just a number on a piece of paper, but is an incarnation of values. So the second budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, a realistic and at the same time visionary budget, also reflects the values and great strategic choices of our prolongation for Greece of production, promotion, creation which is the mirror of social care and of course social justice. In conclusion, with the expectation of all of us in 2021 to mark the end of this murderous virus, I call upon all my colleagues from Serres to be vaccinated together and publicly, sending a strong signal to all our fellow citizens that vaccination will take us out of the pain of the pandemic, will give us back everyday life, contact with our fellow people and with our friends, and will give us the normality in the economy to open its wings, having truly the most prosperous, the most reforming government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u460	Thank you, Mrs. Abbatzi. The floor is for the SYRIZA Member, Mr. Vassilis Kokalis, then Mr. Spiritual and we will close with Mrs. Poulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the feelings for the viewer of plenary sittings are mixed. Are they right, seeing the MPs? Is the Qualified Opposition Destroyed? Isn't that the way things are? First of all, let us make it clear what we all ought to do. Mr. Kikilis said we're all gonna win this war together. Of course we'll win him together. No one less, no more. We're all at the same time. But the fact that we are making use of our institutional role and highlighting government's omissions and mistakes does not mean that we are making an attempt of sabotage, as we have heard two hours before Mr Kumucaco. I have observed the speeches of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Ministers. The time of most speeches is devoted - and this is worthy of attention - not to budget support, to proof that the budget is social, to proof that the budget is developmental, but to the way in which Prospective Opposition is opposed, to how it puts forward the arguments. The crucial question is whether it could have been what we are now living for - the general ban, the growing cases and the very many dead - had been avoided. That is the main question, to which we must answer with reasonable arguments. Tourism opened the way it should be? The answer is given to this question by Mr Georgiadis, who said that he did not open the way he should. Was the government prepared for the second wave of pandemic? Here, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is given by the Prime Minister himself, who said that 'we were not prepared'. Did the necessary recruitments take place on time? In this question, the House is giving it a reply. Recruitment was made by way of an amendment twenty or twenty-five days ago, i.e. too late. Did you get a test price? This question again will be answered by the House. It happened ten days ago. Do all citizens have access to the tests by prescribing? The answer here gives it itself the reality we all know that they do not have access. Let's go now and see what the Qualified Opposition is asking for. It is precisely what was answered by either the Prime Minister, the House, or the reality. So the government's disgraceful operation of the opposition speech is not correct. Let's go to the economy. Minister, you mentioned some financial instruments. You said about TEPIX, the loans with the guarantee of the Greek State. The only financial instrument, which ‘walked’, was the repayable advance, which must be non-refundable. You mentioned some numbers, 40 million euros in Evros, in Katerini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u462	I didn't say 40 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u463	You said 50 million euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u464	I'll tell you soon about Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u465	Yeah, about Larissa, tell us about it. But I expect you to tell us how many companies these loans have been applied for in total. In Larissa, that is, there's a hundred businesses. And the hundred businesses asked for a loan? Because what we know is that most companies, because they have to be excluded from lending. I repeat that the repayable advance is the only financial instrument that has "walked". And the advance must not be repayable. The debate must begin, even if the debts of traders and free traders are to be eliminated in part, but that was created only during the pandemic period. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, it turns out in fact that the government has suffered irresponsible harm, as we speak in medical terms. You said - and you say - that this budget does not provide for an increase in taxes. You don't do anything. I propose and urge the Greek women and the Greeks - those who can and will - to look at the pages of thirty-seven to thirty-nine of the preliminary draft budget. There is no provision for seasonal workers. There is no provision for free professionals, for scientists, for the middle-class, in fact, but also for farmers. In summary, I would like to say that the Ministry of Rural Development is essentially making political management. Compensation is an obligation of the State on time. There is no specific production model. At the moment, the farmer's problem is production costs. There's an increase in agricultural oil. We expect to see your legislation on unfair commercial practices, on the issue of prices. Finally, we need to have an intervention under European legislation to protect farmers from unfair commercial practices that too much lower prices. This bill must come soon. Mr Avramakis has also referred to the sugar industry. The sugar industry is a prey to the candidate investors. And these people have great anxiety about the future of their businesses, farms. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: it is absent from the budget - and not only - but also from the general government planning model for restarting the economy. The Chamber president, Mr. Hadjithedosios, said they would close a hundred and fifty thousand businesses. These people where they're going to work? Are they going to unemployment? What is the model of relaunching the economy? We know that e-commerce will grow. But where are these people going?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u466	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u467	I'm hanging up. Society today needs to be preceded by the economy, because behind the numbers it is people. Solutions need to be made clearly, without ideologies. Solutions and policies are needed with a strong social profile. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u469	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u470	Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u471	I'll repeat something about what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u472	Only for Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u473	Of course, only for Larissa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u474	What if you have Viotia?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u475	For everything I could have. I'll just repeat for Larissa. I am surprised, however, that the speeches by fellow Members from Accuracy Opposition who probably do not know or want to tell the truth. Because this information is publicly available. They have been tabled by the Minister and they are in the Minutes of the House more than three, four times, and indeed the last update was made on 3 December. He filed it last Friday in his initial budget speech. I come to Larissa because I always talk to evidence. Financial instruments: guarantee and TEMPUS II. Applications: eight hundred ninety. Contracts: six hundred seventy-one. The percentage of the firms requested and with which contracts were awarded is about 80%. Reimbursement: 134 171,000 euros. I would like to point out that in the fourth and fifth cycles 50% are not repaid. Fifteen thousand two hundred and twenty-eight companies, uniquely VDU, of the Larissa Prefecture, were strengthened with 80,688,000 euros. Special purpose allowances received ten thousand five hundred one businesses: EUR 10 239 000. Special purpose allowances for workers, suspension of work, etc., 28,565 000 euros. Overall: 253,665,000 euros for the Larisa Prefecture. And because you said about previous laws: EUR 30 million, EUR 50 million, I say to you: Pierres Law: EUR 121.113,000. Evros Prefecture: 90,000,000 euros. Imathia Prefecture: 113.320,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u476	You did it a little while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u477	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u478	No, you have no right. He answered you, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u479	But that's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u480	That's what he said. Mrs Arabadzis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. Because it was challenged by the Ministry, which I now represent in the Chairs of the Parliament twice on the subject of "Greek Sugar Industry" and in order not to give any impression that we are allegedly evading the answers, I will tell my dear colleagues who are sheding crocodile tears that we, ladies and gentlemen, have pledged the investor to receive the price beet at the agreed price, starting on 1 November at the latest. Let me remind you in your short memory that it was us who secured the associated aid to an amount of EUR 190 per acre. You know what we received from your hands. We were the ones who gave 65 euros of the de minimis acre. Therefore, we have given EUR 255 the acre in terms of logging. I shall conclude by saying, Mr President, Mr former Minister, that I am not in receipt of the payment of the aid in good time. Obviously, that's how it's supposed to be. I will say, of course, that this year, despite the coronary pandemic and any management problems that are reasonably created, our producers will be paid for on Friday 18 December, earlier than any other time. I said that for the first time in time, the allowances of ELGA were paid only very soon for 2019 and were paid for the first time in advance, as was done with the "Jan" in record time. As a whole, Mr President, I am closing up with this because I have heard about 80 million euros, I do not know where you are, Mr Avramakis, in these figures. So let me say that 157 million euros have been paid for aid. 200 million euros have been committed. Oil producers are paid 123 million euros. Three thousand are in Serres, the olive growers who will be paid. The total is EUR 357 million, Mr Avramakis. Thank you for your tolerance and my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u482	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u483	No, you mustn't answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u484	Yeah, but he didn't answer! Has the whole production been delivered? Of course not!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u485	He answered, but you don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u486	Impressions are being created! We'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u487	Let's not have a dialogue, please. We should go to Evia, Mr. Spyridon Spiritual from New Democracy and wish him many years for his nominal festivities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u488	Good evening, Mr President, and thank you very much. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget is a major challenge for all governments worldwide. The coronary pandemic had dramatic consequences for all economic sizes. It overturned all the forecasts, imposed exceptional support for the health system, finally defining the economic progress for 2020. In this global climate of uncertainty the Government of New Democracy, with a sense of responsibility, presents a budget prudent, maintaining the reformal figure of our policy to support labour and business and maintain social cohesion through real growth. We have made great efforts to stem the negative consequences of the pandemic and the lockdowns, taking early and targeted measures of EUR 24 billion in 2020, EUR 7.5 billion in 2021, and a special reserve of EUR 3 billion is provided for as an impediment. I would very much like to describe the efforts made at the level of health protection. It is precisely for this reason that I consider it particularly important to clarify scientifically some of the issues that have been raised in the budget debate and which do not apply, such as the existence of available coronary treatments that are supposedly not approved by the government. So speaking only on the basis of scientific data and on the avoidance of false impressions on the citizen, I would like to point out that, as far as Bamlanivimab medicine is concerned, it is a monoclonal antibody granted to non-medical patients at low and mid-risk, resulting in a reduction in the number of hospitals in this category. However, taking this medicine is not recommended for hospitalised patients or patients already receiving oxygen therapy. On the other hand, in hospitalised patients, administration may be associated with worsening condition. This medicine is still under control in terms of its safety and efficacy, although it has been approved by the FDA in the form of emergency therapy as a reasonable treatment provided that the patient is informed and consent is given to possible therapeutic benefits or complications. It is very important to understand here that the American Infection Company recommends against the widespread use of this medicine due to the absence of adequate data. In addition, this antibody is not included in the current instructions of the Infections Company for COVID -19. As for varistinib, a medicine circulating in Greece for rheumatoid arthritis, in November 2020, the FDA again approved in the form of an emergency order for its administration in combination with Remdesivir in patients with CIVID-19 under oxygen, mechanical breathing support, in vitro membrane oxygenation. The studies showed that this medicine did not show a change in population mortality and did not improve the survival of patients treated with CIVID-19 in this study, simply reduced the time of hospitalisation and recovery. It is also noteworthy that there are no bibliographical data on the superiority of this preparation against the dexamethasone already administered in our country, which shows lower costs and proves to reduce mortality and is included in all the management instructions. This medicine, again, is not included in the current instructions of all major companies, such as the American Society of Infections, the European Society of Pharmacology and the Hellenic Society of Infections. Overall, Greek patients should know that they have equal access to any modern treatment and medicine that has been judged safe and effective by experts. There are no magical treatments or secret medications. So if the pandemic taught us something, it is that the Greek public health system, with all its chronic problems and shortcomings, is a chapter on the place. Nearly EUR 32 billion have been guaranteed with the actions of our Prime Minister from the European Union's Recovery Fund, money that is needed both to strengthen the true economy affected by the pandemic, but also to move forward with projects, infrastructure and reforms. Strengthening the accessibility, effectiveness and quality of the health system is one of the main priorities of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan presented by the Ministry of Finance and is the roadmap for the use of the Fund. The public health system, as I said, is a capital, but it is almost forty years old. It needs to be modernized immediately, although he has endured the pandemic in every way. This modernisation is difficult and cost-effective, but it is more necessary than ever if we want to create a health-competitive health for all citizens. In my opinion, this modernisation should focus on the following axes: First, we can build private hospitals. Secondly, the correct costing of all medical operations and hospitals in the private and public sectors. The public hospital is paid directly by the EEAS for its services and not to be supported by the budget in the form of a tribute. Thirdly, the reform of the supply system in hospitals should be a flexible, functional, rapid process, primarily aimed at the hospital to achieve the best price, rather than be involved in a swing of insulted and never completed processes, so that the state always buys expensive. Fourthly, the objective assessment and grading of all medical operations. All medical operations by health personnel are broken into project units either by the DRGs system applicable to Germany, Europe and Australia, or by RVUs, which is the corresponding system applied in the United States. This will objectively rate productivity and efficiency and ensure recompense. Fifthly, cooperation with the private sector in modernising hospital facilities and the renewal of medical equipment. The private sector is not the dragon of a fairy tale. The private sector is an ally of the public body and can contribute to the work of the state, so that the result is profitable for both sides with a final recipient and a profitable citizen, who will receive the best health services without any additional costs. Sixthly, access to health structures for all citizens insured or not, provided they have legal AMCAs. Seven, the extension of the full-day operation and afternoon surgery. Eighth, the creation of specialized expertise centres that ensures the best quality of care and lower costs for patients. Ninth, the creation of a renewed health map for the whole country and the upgrading of the region's health infrastructure. Citizens in the region must have equal access to quality primary and secondary care. At the same time, the EAW and telemedicine need to be upgraded. Tenth, the shift to primary care and prevention and the setting up of units for patients with chronic illness. Finally, we should perhaps think that the positions of the managers' coordinators in all the hospitals pending, and even the recruitment of new doctors to the positions of all those who have been discharging, should be called back in order to fill our hospitals with new permanent doctors. As I said, in these difficult days that we are spending the system, it has proved to be wither and tooth, but it needs modernisation. By making use of the possibilities offered to us by the Development Fund, we can strengthen, not only the infrastructure, but also the effectiveness of the public health system. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2021 budget lays the foundations for overcoming the huge test of the coronary set in 2020 at an economic and healthal level, but it has a glance in the future, in the next day, on the recovery and development of our country, an essential prerequisite for the welfare of all citizens. So I urge you all to vote in favour of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u489	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiritual. We close today, as yesterday, with a scent of a woman and with Mrs Panagiou (Giota) Poulos, MP of Boeotia of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u490	Thank you very much, Mr President. Incidentally, Mr President, we are very often closing the plenary sessions together!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u491	I've noticed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u492	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to approach the problems of the budget on the basis of forecasts and impacts on society. I shall therefore record the situation in one region, and I am sure that you too will recognise your own regions, which together create the overall picture of them. Indicate first, health structures. At the secondary General Hospital of Livadia, a doctor and six nurses have been ill for three days, closed the surgical department of the Orthopaedic Clinic, without immediately becoming rapid tests on staff, which is restless and exhausted. And the Hospital of Thebes suddenly closes the pathological clinic for a while because it couldn't even cover the newspapers. At the same time, however, he lends pathologists to the Hospital of Chalkida, which we have heard from a government MP from Evia. The hospitals cover their needs with unskilled medical staff, rural doctors you move, personnel from health centers, further weakening primary health, and its role in dealing with pandemic. The CIVID wards created, treat mild incidents, without additional skilled personnel and a high risk of dispersal. When, in fact, a patient has to be transferred to the reference hospital in Lamia, there is a battle between hospitals and is finally allowed, with threats of complaints. Finally, the local health unit in Livada, while founded since June 2019, remains on paper. In the end, Mr President, I will put forward the relevant communications in the Minutes, because they are not my views, but they are recorded views of bodies, associations, institutions and municipal authorities. Recording second, education. Schools opened without preparation, without respect for health protocols. That's what CONTROL Viotia says. Approximately 10% of students in primary and secondary education do not attend regular courses through tele-education due to a lack of tablet but also the possibility of connecting the internet. The education of Roma children and refugees is seen as luxury. What happened to these students? Third record, the workers. The two Livade and Thebes Workshops denounce the absence of measures to protect workers, the absence of mass tests, the weakening of the AAR and hence the lack of control at the workplace. Finally, they also condemn what you reserve with your policy. Inscribed fourthly, farmers. In September, the winegrowers, in October, the olive growers, now cotton growers, but also farmers, complain that they do not cover production costs, at risk of extinction. No design is available for the primary sector, but also for the management of the former Kopais Organization, a major comparative advantage for the development of our prefecture. Of course, our farmers will also be penalised by the new engravement of the green end of oil, which you have recently voted on. Fifteenth, small and medium-sized enterprises. The county chamber, two trade clubs, three catering clubs, hotel clubs and room owners say they're in intensive, that they can't survive and that they're going to certain professional death. Recording sixth, environment and climate change. Local societies, Mr. Minister, despite the lockdown, are alert to environmental crime at the edge of the prefecture, from Kithyron, Elikon and Parnassos, which does not seem to be excluded although a national park, historical sites, archaeological sites, the Valley of Munich, the monastery of Osios Lucas, which is a monument of UNESCO, but also the dolphin scenery, although protected places are facing the neck of the windmills. In support of all this, I will say again that I will submit to the Minutes all the information that comes from the agencies. Finally, record seven, local government. The six municipalities try to balance budgets with a negative record of municipal revenues, but with increased responsibilities due to a pandemic and without the transfer of corresponding resources. Social structures now record multiples of vulnerable citizens and have no extra subsidy. They also see most of the projects launched under the 'Philodus I' and the 'Philodis II' - in the previous period of course - to be suspended on account of unpaid payment of orders. Ladies and gentlemen, these and other important things are happening in a neighbouring Attica law in Boeotia. I wish, however, that they only happened there. Similar events occur throughout the country, a social turbulence which each day grows because of the government's policy and which is illustrated by figures and tables in its budget that we are debating today and which seems to refer to another social reality. The Minister for Finance, my neighbour, Mr Stagiras - he is not here, but he will obviously hear it - has managed to sell LARCO after the precarious operation of the ODA, and he continues with the disastrous policy on small and medium-sized enterprises, tourism, farmers, farmers, seasonal workers, long-term unemployed, free traders, scientists and artists, since he has no budget for any support. Gentlemen of government, you blindly serve the neoliberal doctrine, even at a time when society is being tested by an unprecedented health crisis that you still see as an opportunity. You sacrifice social cohesion by creating great inequalities and driving without empathy, 'nemela', people in despair. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, may I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u493	Of course, Mrs. Pulu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u494	However, ladies and gentlemen of the government, let us consider your predictions of local self-government, leaving it helpless, while recognising in the words its major contribution to the tested local communities in which it is daily accounted for. You are deceiving the CEDEFOP and local communities by lying that central self-resources will be increased by 51 million euros due to increased income tax and VAT revenues. However, on the basis of these increased revenues of the State, the amount that the government had to receive in proportion is EUR 500 million. So it is effectively removed from the CAP 450 million. It's a horrific bleeding. You give her just 1/10 of the amount that she has to pay. And the wild towel continues: EUR zero for COVID expenditure - EUR 171 million in 2020, while the coronary will not disappear as magically on 1 January 2021. Just EUR 2 million to tackle natural disasters, compared with EUR 29 million in 2020, while climate change is developing rapidly and every year we face extreme weather with major disasters. Reduction by 8.5% of resources for prostitution, while the needs of our vulnerable fellow citizens are increasing. Just EUR 172 million for the RIS in the Public Investment Programme, compared with a EUR 212 million forecast in 2020, while deep recession requires compensation through increased public investment. However, in the face of all these reductions, there is also an increase, an increase of EUR 235 million of the municipality's own resources. But it is a burden for the people, because it comes from the newly declared squares. The CEDEFOP has made it clear to you that this source cannot deliver more than EUR 100 million. But what happens when your out-of-real calculations fall out? Again, will you invoke the individual responsibility of the mayors, why have they not taken care of the receipts, or why have they not increased the local tax? You have no provision in the budget for 2021 for the non-refundable grant programme, whereas chambers of commerce and professional associations especially in regions that have received disproportionately small parts, such as Central Greece, are calling for a resumption of the programme on fairer terms. Ladies and gentlemen, the reductions in the 2021 budget are not just about self-government. Health reductions exceeding EUR 600 million are shocking. Your ideoleptic neoliberal anxiety does not keep recruitment and the rest of the support as a dowry to public health after the end of the pandemic, leads you to a budget that in nothing reminds of a country that is hard hit by the pandemic. I would say that the previous Members of Parliament who spoke from the Step seem to agree with this, that public health must be supported in every way. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, with propaganda you were talking about the infamous individual responsibility of the citizens. Until the Prime Minister himself neglected his own personal responsibility and fortunately stopped this report - a threat. However, it will not be long before you answer to society for your enormous political responsibility for the failed management of the health and economic crisis. Because the site needs a productive reconstruction plan, sustainable development that meets the needs of the many and not the few interests that you are refreshingly serving. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u495	Thank you very much. However, you have spoken more than anyone, even by Mr Georgiadis. You started Monday and you're done Tuesday!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u496	Mr. Georgiadis is out of the question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u497	You started Monday and you're done Tuesday! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-14-S1-commons.u498	The meeting for today, Tuesday, December 15, 2020, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continued discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "State budget year 2021", according to the agenda distributed.
