ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the Parliament's 19-3-2020 authorisation, the PKA's minutes of Thursday 19 March 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau of the PKA's minutes on the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions (I.E.S.)’. and other provisions.’;]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We'll start a little unorthodox. Because Mr. Georgiadis is here and his question is fourth in a row, we'll put it first. Mr. Kegeroglu is upstairs and in his question, Mrs. Michailidou will answer and then there are the two questions of Mr. Kontozamanis, who is on his way. Today, four topical questions will be discussed. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House which ministers will reply. It will therefore be discussed the first under number 599/23-3-2020 in the first cycle of MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Papas, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Security safeguards for the personal protection of the general population from the coronary. Sufficient gains and price outflows’. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to take the floor to say that we all think first of all of the people who give the battle to the frontline, to the public health system, which deserves our support, the support of the state with one lasting time, and we should stop the voices that question its usefulness and crisis especially in these times. Minister, before I go to the main theme of my question, I would like to call on you to consult with the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsis, and to get the regulation back - provision for the possibility of Greek companies employing their staff at 50% with half the wage. It is the ultimate recipe of the precipitation of the Greek economy. It's like hitting gas down the street. No business has faith that the situation can be balanced at the moment. Instead of doing what other countries do, i.e. offering guarantees and assurances that we will all keep together, keep the staff in place, maintain pay, go to the opposite side. You've misdesigned the support program. It is an incentive for people to go to "bad". I now come to the question. For the last two - three weeks, we have pointed out the problem with the adequacy and prices of products, which are personal protection products from the spread of the coronary, and this is the first line of battle. Because whatever we have to talk about the economy, if the Krone battle is not won quickly, so that the economic sectors can return to normality, it does not matter. You recognized the problem at the time. Since then there have been signs and monsters both in the National Health System and, of course, in the market, and I would like this to be a matter of no concern to me as economic sector and to you as Minister of Development. It should be a purely public health matter. It's not a commercial matter. It is not a question of the smooth functioning of the market. It is an absolute need to ensure the adequacy of these goods to the employees at "Save", at the ID of "Papanikolaos", at the Hospital of Kastoria, at the Kavala Hospital, in the ten public complaints that there is no adequate staff working on the front line. A 10% of the cases concern health. We must protect the'strategies'. We made a suggestion to you, and we warned you, that the Ministry of Health should take over to import these goods. You told us you'd value the profit rate. Do you know what that means, Minister? It means that this bottle if it made 2 euros and had 10% profit, the dealer would be 20 minutes. If it goes 20 euros, it'll make two euros out of this bottle. He'll double his profit along with his price. That is what we guarantee him now. What have we not ensured? We have not ensured the smooth distribution of these first-demand goods across the population. There is a first part of my question and I ask you whether you are satisfied with the results of the choices. None of us can be satisfied, Minister. We're calling on you to change your watch now. It's a matter of public health. It is not a question of ensuring the smooth functioning of the market, as you said three weeks ago. It is a question to which the public must intervene, to supply the raw materials centrally, to guarantee a smooth flow first of all in hospitals, second of all in pharmacies and, of course, something we agree that there must be control over consumption.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u3	Please complete. You're not a minister to say the position. The minister's gonna call it now. There's a time tolerance because it's four questions. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, the cycle of question has been widened because the working methods have also entered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u5	But I know you have ethics and you don't enter other fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u6	As far as labour is concerned, I will say very little to stay in the shamefulness that is the core of the question. They're not times for populism. The biggest bet the Greek economy has is when the economy starts after the crisis, Mr President, to be all businesses ready to operate and all jobs secured. Every measure we can take to ensure this objective will be taken. We may also make mistakes and may disagree civilizedly about our mistakes and mistakes to correct them. But you know, Mr President, that all the measures that we have taken are entitled 'to secure jobs'. Any undertaking that hurts a worker will be left alone and will not take from the State any suspensions of payments or low-priced loans with a guarantee or absolutely nothing. So we have linked jobs to the interests of the employer. I believe that there will be no employer so foolish that he will move on to make redundancies under these circumstances and lose all these motives. To see now how easily I can talk about redundancies, about jobs, about social sensitivity and all the rest, but I do not want to do so because I want our debate to be civilised today, I will tell you that yesterday in "AUTH" I read that in Spain the Minister for Labour of the PODEMOS was forced to accept five hundred thousand redundancies and all he had to say was that he did everything to get unemployment benefits. But I will not say it and I will close the parenthesis here. I will only say calmly and civilisedly that we have a common goal: to keep business and jobs alive. Now I'm going to the cove. Some - I think you too - have now found the opportunity to resolve ideological issues. Why am I saying that? Not so much of you. You people, admittedly, have raised the question of valuation, to which I shall immediately place myself. But you have left other colleagues, the well-known and unexplained of Sfakia, coming out on every show and calling me the solemn word that I am - it says - 'the Minister of the Black Markets'. Honestly, I ask you: at this time in this situation and this crisis, do you think it is a good thing that a Vice-President of the Opposition is constantly referring to the Minister of Development as the 'Minister of the Black Markets'? Are you saying that as an example of a national consensus? Shame on you. Now let's go to what we've done. You asked if we were happy with the measures. I want to be absolutely honest. We're extremely pleased. Not just happy. We are extremely pleased and extremely proud. And you know why we're proud? Because at the time we are talking today, thousands of Greeks at airports abroad from countries that are far more advanced than we are, Mr President, are trying to find a way to come to Greece - the government will, of course, help them - on the grounds that Greece feels safer than in these advanced countries. So something good has happened, Mr Papapa, in this country for our country to have the image of so few proportional cases and so few proportional deaths. I hope this will continue. I say it because this is a battle that needs to be won every day. I'm going to talk about market adequacy because that's why I'm responsible. I can't talk to you about the hospitals because I don't have any information at all. That's why you're asking the Minister of Health. I don't know. But do you know, as far as market adequacy is concerned, that yesterday, for example, in Belgium, an act of legislation came out that says that to get gloves, antiseptics, thermometer and mask you need to go get a prescription? Do you know why this happened? Because anywhere in the supermarkets or anywhere else they don't have antiseptics, no masks, nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u7	We don't have one either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u8	You're making a big mistake. I get on my WhatsApp from all the supermarket chains they have each morning. If you want I will also promote to you the figures in your WhatsApp institutions, as a competent division officer. I'll do it every morning if you want. Today they have received five hundred thousand pieces. You're gonna tell me: is that enough? No, because our daily consumption is close to a million. So we have a deficit of about half our daily consumption. However, from daily production in Greece under two hundred thousand we have reached six hundred thousand, and the amendment tabled today by Mr Metarakis on the speedier licensing, Mr President, of those industries that want to produce antiseptic drugs, we will be able to raise our production in the next few days, possibly even in the eight hundred thousand per day. Therefore, the situation of the Greek market, mutatis mutandis and the crisis, is extremely better than other European countries. I will close and will not abuse time, Mr President, by saying that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we have made special arrangements. I would like to thank Mr Besiropoulos for running for that very much, Mr Pittsilis and Mr Stavoura, of course. From now on, a faster authorisation procedure is allowed by customs to import the raw material that is ethyl alcohol. So we have ensured the smooth supply of raw materials to the market. I am going to say what I have to say in my denunciation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u10	Unfortunately, I do not know whether for reasons of communication or policy, Minister, you give me the feeling that you do not understand how big the problem is in both the Greek economy and the public health system. You are the Minister of this government. According to the Constitution collectively, the responsibility and adequacy of these goods concern you all. We say a simple thing. Adequacy of these goods is not a question of balance in a market. It is a matter of sufficient and optimum distribution now and adequacy, import and manufacture of these products. How can we say it differently? Yesterday I watched TV and said that the masks of 0.68 euros have reached 20 euros. Are you and me going to talk about this? And you're going to tell me that we're satisfied because some other Greeks want to be repatriated? Is that where we are? Really? As for the financial measures, I would like us to meet again in the House to discuss this. You have to understand that you are motivating businesses to put workers on the counter. And that's what we told you. He doesn't want wisdom. He doesn't want a doctorate in finances to understand that all the branches of the economy will be negatively affected. Are we going to a situation where two million employment contracts will be suspended? Are we serious? On parole of the whole economy, that is. You're telling us you want to help out the business. Create a large guarantee program and set a condition for not suspending the contract of employment. Not her parole. That makes anyone who wants to keep the economy, keep business and help them. Unfortunately, your first answer did not satisfy us at all. On the substance of the matter you say that you cannot do anything else, you will simply sit down and watch them, and we will come here to cry that our prices are rising and our hospitals are failing. As for the shots at Paul Paul Paul, I think what was particularly disturbing is that he has brought to the surface the scandalous favor with which private clinics are enjoying these hours and days, which, from 800 euros a day, are charged with 1,600 euros a day. That's a stigma for anyone who allows it. It's disgusting, it's immoral, and you need to call it back immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u11	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u12	I am surprised, Mr. Colleague, that Mr. Paul Paulakis accuses me of private clinics. Maybe she hasn't learned I'm no longer a Minister of Health. As far as this decision is concerned, I am sure that when you ask the Minister for Health a timely question it will explain to you why it is right, but it is not my responsibility. Also, the seconds to your half answer were for responsibilities of other ministers and not for me. I'll come to what I have. I have the market. That's my responsibility, and you asked me the question. You have put the valuation in the public debate. And Mr. Paulakis and your friend, Mr. Vaxvanis, come out all day and blame me for not putting me in esteem. You did it worldly, I admit. I bring Cyprus as an example. Can you bring me another European country that has paid tribute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u13	France. Fifteen euros a litre of antiseptic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u14	France has not put any price on it. What you're saying is in the raw material. He's not in production at the supermarket. France is a producer of raw materials. We're not. How can I explain it to you? Ethyl alcohol, we're importing it. I explained it to you on the phone. Ethyl alcohol shall be imported into an auction procedure. What for? Because all the countries of the world that do not produce ethyl alcohol are asking to get ethyl alcohol and it is finally taken by the one who gives it more. So if we go and put a price on ethyl alcohol, we won't have ethyl alcohol and then you'll blame me for having no antiseptics. How can I just explain it to you? We are the only European country to give consideration to the profit rate. The only one. Why have I not put into valuation at the final price, as Cyprus did? I will not criticise Cyprus. Let everyone do his thing. Because the valuation poses two major and serious risks. The first and largest is to bring in a shortage of goods. If you enter Facebook a little and see what is said in Cyprus you will understand. I'm not saying any more. Because when you put valuation and the international price goes up, the import stops, because the other will not want to sell with damage. So you're going to put a price on it to tell how good a minister you are and the other one won't find any antiseptic. So I'm telling you again that we have nonetheless put the profit rate at a standstill. Why did we put a price on the profit rate? We never said we were against profit. We are against greed. We want to encourage imports of antiseptics, because the more imports of antiseptics, masks and gloves become, the more adequacy there will be on the market. And yes, to introduce, Mr Pappa - I'm sorry that at the age we are, I will reveal it to you - it must also have the incentive of profit. Or he won't be importing. So you have to leave him this motive to introduce. But you have to check that this gain is not going to be too much. That's what we've checked with the law we brought in. I have to tell you that the first checks are already in place...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u15	But we don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u16	We will not resolve our ideological issues here. They've been undone in the elections. Don't waste time. You can believe in a life without profit. I don't believe it. I believe that profit is an incentive to business, and I believe that in order for there to be sufficient market power there must be fair profit, not unfair profit. We're fighting this unfair thing. Already today, the first fines will be in place. Indeed, in a drug store, we have found an excessive profit rate, and today the fine will be announced, and also in some fuel stations where we also have the fine. And not only that, but we have asked the Competition Committee and we have sent from the computerised database that we have created. Because you may not know it, but I must say it so that the Greek people can hear it. On our own initiative, Mr President, we have created an electronic data base at the Ministry of Development which all the producers and all the traders have had to declare all the goods they have, so that if anyone goes to hide goods to artificially upload prices and grab them, seize these goods and be able to shut it down. So we've all done this. Already the checks pay off, and I have to tell you and close. A simple sampling of antiseptic prices in Greece with antiseptic prices in the other European countries will convince you, Mr Papa, that we are no more than the others. It is an international crisis, however, that everyone is asking for these goods and, unfortunately, where there is a great deal of demand there is also an increase in the price. It's all simple. There is no intention of speculation from us, nor of aiding anyone, nor of covering anyone, nor of all that you say. And please, to close, if you or anyone else who is now following us any complaint of an excessive charge on these goods, I will immediately send and send the control and control crews to the market tariffs and to the sales tariffs and see whether there is any indebtedness or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Since I had announced and downloaded Mr. Kegeroglou earlier, I will be allowed by Mr. Synthrakis and Mr. Pulas to go to Mr. Kegeroglu and be 'en bloc' after the two questions to Mr. Kontozamanis, who came. So we move on to the first with number 598/20-3-2020, a topical question from the President of Heraklion, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Support for workers, unemployed, young unemployed, scientists, long-term unemployed, professionals, people with disabilities, pensioners who do not receive a pension and weak fellowship'. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I start by saying that the Change Movement supports all the recommendations of the scientists and the Government's decisions on the basis of them, in order to address the pandemic of the coronary and at the same time exercises its right to the crisis of decisions so that they can be improved, supplemented and not unfair and at the same time to have better efficiency in dealing with the coronary, but also to be fair in dealing with the problems arising in the economy, in society, in workers, in self-employed, in farmers, in entrepreneurs. The question therefore concerns first of all the exceptions and the lack of decisions to support workers and free trade and micro-enterprises. Some twenty thousand people in tourism are out of support measures and they are all in particular those who ended the regular unemployment allowance in December or those who did not receive any unemployment benefit either because they did not establish it or because they took the season. These are about twenty thousand in which the so-called "extractors" are counted. At the same time, out-of-regions are small enterprises operating in hotels that have been closed or will not be opened, and these small enterprises are not included in the measures and concern certain categories of retail trade. Look at them. It's just a code, and there's too many missing. Apart from regulation, workers in undertakings who had declared as the main SAR an activity which they did not carry out as the principal activity in practice and the decisions of the Government concern the secondary activities declared by these undertakings. Workers, therefore, in secondary codes are not included in the measures. I have two final examples from Heraklion. The Union of Heraklion, which has declared olive oil as the main activity code and is mainly active in wine and in the activation of rights. They are two secondary activities, but which have been terminated by state. The workers are out. The second example is DEPANAL. It's a municipal company that has private-law workers. As it has a principal activity other than that of catering and coffee, it is not included in support measures. For pensioners who do not receive a pension, who are constantly increasing, who do not receive a temporary pension, care should be taken. I told the Minister last time in the previous question. We're waiting today for an answer. Outside the support is the port workers, self-employed, self-secured, loaders, who have specific codes that are not included and included only one concerning Lefkada, because each place has its different code.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u20	Yes, Mr. President. Apart from small self-employed farmers, producers, for example, of aromatic plants. Is it except that who cares today with this crisis of aromatic plants? Except there's a series of professional scientists like lawyers. You must tell us today about the weak, who are beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, what you are doing above, for people with disabilities. What, for example, do you do with the TEHA? Will you proceed to legislation so that the money of the programme can be distributed at home for the EIF? Are you going to use the taxi or even self-employed deliars? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u21	The reason for this is the State Secretary with one tolerance, if he needs it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need it in my dentistry. Dear Mr. MEP, today Greece and the world are experiencing something unprecedented. We are unfortunately moving towards uncharted waters with a pandemic that threatens both human existence and social cohesion and the economy nationally and internationally. From the first moment the government has been quick, decisive, but also full knowledge of its dimensions and the weight of its responsibilities has managed to prevent events and so far - I stress - developments have shown that we are moving in the right direction. As you know, three packages have already been announced to address the effects on the economy and the labour market. Initially, in the first package of measures with special purpose permit, we relieved parents whose children are up to 15 years old, and every day we try to make improvements so that we can cover more than parent cases. The second package dealt with the crucial issue concerning workers. The problem here is double, as we have workers belonging to businesses that have been suspended by legislation, but also workers whose companies are still working. In the first case, workers will receive an allowance of EUR 800 for the period 15 March to 30 April. Our intervention in the case of redundancies has been followed, which is very critical, because for the first time such an emergency measure has been introduced. This banned the redundancies of workers who belonged to the categories of businesses that have been suspended, while all the beneficial measures we have announced have been linked to a job conservation clause. So we are dealing in a substantial and effective way with the question of workers as a whole. I believe that and this is the message that has been sent to the business world, but even more important in the world of work is that we are dealing with the crisis together, united and without panic. Our fundamental priority is to ensure social cohesion in this difficult period for our country and, at the same time, to keep the Greek economy alive in order to overcome this difficulty. In my dentistry, I will ask for a little more time, Mr President, to be more detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u23	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. First, because you spoke about early treatment, I will ask the House the first question submitted to the Ministry of Health on 22 January 2020 that we asked for protection and support measures to be taken in hospitals, preparation at the entrance gates of the country and any announcements made by the government came a month later. So the debate on early treatment or oligopoly will then take place, but I will table this question for historical reasons, which has never been answered. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I come to the question of our questions. We have said today about gaps and we have asked for additional decisions to be made on workers, professionals, farmers and businesses, and instead, you have reiterated the measures taken so far. You have not answered what you will do either for pensioners who do not receive a pension or for tourist workers who remain outside, nor for the question of workers in enterprises with multiple CARs, nor for those who are excluded as professionals. In addition to the fact that you have not answered us, I have to say that the government does not act in this direction. We finally call on her to work, rather than legislate not only half the work, but also half the wages, which means a 75% reduction in the income of workers in enterprises, which are not included in those who are affected. We consider the legislation of Article 9 of the Act of Legislation to be unacceptable, which, for the first time, unilaterally gives the right, without any conditions, to rotate work with the simultaneous conversion of contracts from full-time to part-time work. That means half a day and half a reward for the days it works, so a 75% reduction. This is an unacceptable decision. Some scientists have already begun to use it. The decision and the measure should be taken in respect of enterprises subject to codes which the Government announces are affected. From there on, only if there is a concrete reduction in turnover and incomes can decisions of this type be taken. Unfortunately, the horizontal legacy of mass redundancies and, indeed, for a semester and for businesses not included in the affected shows another person. It shows that "we found the priest, we'll bury a dozen". It is not in this sense that we should continue or divert from the general rule: 'We are dealing with the problems, we are supporting those who are affected'. In this sense, I would like to invite you, by ending, to withdraw Article 9 of the MDG and to reply to us what you are going to do about all the charges that I have mentioned. Of course, you must tell us, at last, what you will do with the amendment we have tabled to support people on the front line, whether in hospitals, health units or in the 'Help at Home', which is your responsibility too. Will they finally be included in heavy and unhealthy and in the care of the state, or will we give them applause, which is well, but is not enough here? Tell us, too, what you're going to do with the TEVA. Will you legislate on the possibility of going home to this aid, which is very important to the weak, to people who do not have a livelihood, making use - if you want - of the mechanism of the TAXs or the mechanism of the deliberators? He wants legislation. He's got the program from technical assistance to do this job. But I note that a month and a half now you have been systematically inactivating. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u25	Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I will need a little understanding from you because there have been many issues raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u27	Okay. Anyway, you finished your prototype earlier. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Kegeroglu, I do not know how to begin, because what you have put forward was a timely and meaningful discussion. But I will try consistently and restraintally to respond to this. I begin with the very little reference you made to the question, which you tabled on 20 January - if I understand correctly - and you said that it was left unanswered. I think that it was answered by the Ministry of Health in less than two months' time with new recruitments has nothing to do with any situation like the one you described. As far as the TEVA is concerned, I will be detailed in terms of the measures we have taken, but I would like to explain - if you want - one or two of the things you have explained, to give some immediate answers. With regard to the TEVA and the "Help at Home", I inform you that "Help at Home" for many months is no longer the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. Furthermore, because we are a government which has its Ministries to work well together on the distribution of the TEVA - to inform the National Representation, the TEVA is the European Food Aid Fund for the most deprived - what has been done is this: we have already issued a circular - probably you have not seen it - but I will send it to you - which has gone to the CEDEFOP and to private partnerships with regions so that they can see what space there is for the distribution of TEVA at home. There the Ministry of Interior entered the program that you say is his responsibility - apologies for escaping you so far, but it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior - to make these distributions at home. So the Ministry of Interior has the new "Help to Home Plus", which will also help our TEVA program for food aid to the most deprived people go home to the urban centers - the Municipality of Athens and the Municipality of Trikala has begun - but also cooperate with local communities and village presidents, so that this distribution and distribution can be made more effective. Because that is exactly what we want, the support of the most vulnerable. I now come to the essence of your questions and want to be clear and absolute in what I am going to say. The other day, we specialised the emergency measures that we have taken, which introduce an overall network of protection for workers from business and free trade. What do these include? For workers who have been temporarily suspended by businesses, the following conditions are laid down: As you know - I said before - compensation of EUR 800 which is inappropriate, tax-free and non-recoverable, suspension of payment of tax debts, full cover of their insurance debts, a 25% discount on their certified debts in the IU, a suspension of debt payments, 60% of the rent, when it comes to first residence, a guarantee of payment of the Easter gift for all those who work in the private sector and in medical and nursing services. There is a guarantee of labour rights - even if their employment contract is suspended - by banning redundancies and also by maintaining jobs. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] In the case of free professionals, self-employed and individual enterprises, provision is made for additional compensation of EUR 800 for professionals and employers. For these workers, the same applies to workers in SMRs as to workers in SMRs. To be clearer, I will say what is foreseen for the unemployed. For the unemployed, there is a prolongation of the payment of a regular unemployment grant, as well as of the long-term unemployment allowance and of the unemployment benefit to self-employed professionals and self-employed persons for two months, and of EUR 800 for those who have voluntarily left or been made redundant from 1 March 2020 to 20 March 2020, provided that they do not receive an unemployment allowance. I would now like to place an emphasis on welfare and social solidarity as an essential part of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. You are aware that by means of a provision that we have put in the MAGP, through the CSDP committees, it applies to pensions due to disability, preferential cash benefits to disabled persons, as well as to all those invalidity allowances, the certification of which is carried out through the CSDP and which is extended for two months. At the same time, the insurance capacity of those covered by the arrangements in Article 6 of the MDG to which you referred is extended. Now with regard to the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises and what happens in structures where there are disabled people. There, the Ministry has made two sets of substantial measures. As regards the closed structures, which are the responsibility of our Ministry, we have already - and in a week's time - made the corresponding article of the MDG. We've made laws, too. And we have already run - and it is over - and we have been recruited within a week by the PPP of five hundred people to ensure the smooth and effective functioning of the welfare centres throughout the country. Now, with regard to open structures, what has been done is that clear instructions have been given for open structures of the CCIMP type for people with disabilities and creative employment for disabled people, as well as for bilateral and daily care centres for disabled people, to suspend their operation. But if we want to keep a responsible attitude to our fellow citizens with disabilities, and also the most vulnerable of us, we have given the directive to centres such as KIFIs, daily care centres for the elderly, as well as rehabilitation and rehabilitation centers, to stay open, with a more glimpse of dates, in compliance with the rules of EGE, but also with the request of those families, for example, to inject an elderly person into the home and not to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u29	Madam Secretary, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude with the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income and I shall end here. The beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, which was in your question, like the beneficiaries of the housing allowance, have taken on our side the measure of self-evident extension of their allowance and application for at least one month, so that we can serve the citizens, automatically extending the allowance they receive, whether minimum guaranteed or residential, and not assemble in community centres. Mr. Kegeroglu, you don't notice me. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u31	Madam Secretary, continue and close. You didn't come here to say the whole government program.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I am not saying the government's programme. I say the programme of my Ministry and, more specifically, the programme of social welfare and social solidarity. We have informed a hundred and twenty thousand beneficiaries of minimum guaranteed income and housing allowance that their application is extended for a month. We sent a hundred twenty thousand e-mails and sms so that they wouldn't be troubled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u33	What about the retired people? Are the pensioners going to get it? They don't get temporary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u34	That's what he said. I heard. You said that three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u35	If you'd let me speak, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u36	Here you go. I'll give you a minute for the retired. That's what Mr. Kegeroglu has been muttering for five minutes. If you'd answered, we'd be done. Take the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u37	No, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u38	Please consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. We continue with the two questions that will be answered by Mr Contozamanis. We move to the second under number 597/20-3-2020 on the first question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas, on the subject: ‘Procurement of health material’. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank the health staff of all hospitals, the people on the front line, who are currently fighting with an invisible enemy. We want to give too many thanks and really support to them in their difficult work. I would also like to thank you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u41	And the administrative staff, because we forget about it. And the doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u42	All of them. Everyone's inside. We want to thank the Security Bodies, the Firefighters, the Army that guards 'Thrompoples' right now on our borders and, in general, all those who are working today for us to be well. Now I'm going to get to the point of my question. As you well know, Minister, the issue of coronary has highlighted how far the national health system should be, a national health system which has been afflicted over the years of the memorandum, with undermining, with too many problems, with deterioration and an effort to soften it up by the private sector. The first thing we ask with our question is to tell us what you have predicted about health material. Because right now we see that cases in health care are growing day by day. Here, there's a great shortage. It is no coincidence that reference hospitals, such as the "Save", such as the "Hippokratio" or the University of Patras, the General Hospital of Chalkida cries that they have no material. And it's not just the simple material, the simple mask. They are the other things they need to get into the battle. I mean, we'll have to protect our health. So we should make a commission, either in high-protection masks, in glasses, or in these holistic uniforms they wear, so that they can do their job. A second question I would like to ask you is the question of tests. Here, there's a problem. There are two schools. Now we're saying we're gonna have to run a test. Because, taking the example of either Germany, Korea or Singapore, we see that more tests can isolate more cases. And that has an impact on the fact that there are not many victims. What line are you moving on? Beyond that, I can see the other one. There are only four centres looking at the coronary. The two centers are here in Athens, one is in Thessaloniki. There's one in Patras that's been happening lately. Are you going to increase these centres? Because I hear various scientists, whether they are at university or in research centres, which have the machine, who say: 'We want to help, but we don't have the tests'. So do you think about changing policy on how the tests will be carried out from now on? It's a very serious matter. We're seeing something else. We see that 30 million euros the other day were approved to give private individuals to perform diagnostic tests. It's a big amount. First of all, do these tests carried out by private individuals go into the ETA list? One question is that. Secondly, the phenomenon of greedy speculation. From EUR 180 to EUR 350 it costs a test today in the private sector. In this respect, Do you intend to take a measure to deal with it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. On this occasion, I too, because this is the first time-limited question which is answering in the period of crisis with the coronary, which we are going through, I would like to inform the House that indeed health personnel, medical personnel, paramedical staff, administrative staff, all personnel in the health system - and when we talk about a health system, we mean all doctors, all nurses, whether they are in public or private sectors - all really give their best self to deal with this great pandemic. Mr Poula, with your question you raise, in essence, the big question of the adequacy of health material, not only in Greece, but also in the world. We all realise that in such cases demand is too high. There should, of course, be planning, as far as the adequacy of this material is concerned. The coronary crisis found us adequately in the health system. It makes sense that demand has recently increased. We are trying in every way to secure the stocks that the health system currently has. Here, I would like to assure you and this House that there is sufficient material. We are, however, making rational management of the material. Of course, we have already made material orders. Material has already come to our country, as you have already seen. Of course, orders are in progress. And in the next few days, there will be a lot more. Because, we see - not only Greece, it is all about all countries - that the market, China's factories, has started again. It's not just personal protection, it's equipment. Because every day we open up new intensive treatment units that were closed up in previous years. There are new equipment - from respirators to monitors and beds - in order to ensure the operation of intensive care units and any other equipment or consumables needed by the health system. The Ministry of Health has proceeded with all the necessary steps, so that we can ensure the materials that we currently have in the country, but also ensure the smooth supply of the market. We're also safeguarding hospital reserves. But there is also a central management, where material is distributed to health regions, hospitals and health structures. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some more time, because it's important. At this point I would like to say that in addition to the masks, which you mentioned, and other consumables, in relation to antiseptics, the amendment already passed by the Ministry of Finance for about twenty-three tons of ethyl alcohol, this quantity is already in the military laboratories and in units of the Greek pharmaceutical industry, which make antiseptics free of charge for the health system. And over the next few days, health structures are being provided. Adequacy of medicines currently being used by the scientific community has been ensured in order to deal with the incidents of the coronary. Already, until yesterday, we had approved three thousand interrupted eighty-five recruits of medical and other personnel. At first, we talked about two thousand recruitments. And we've gone further. It's not a question of money. It is a matter of ensuring public health. And we'll do it. And we have a prediction for that. You referred to health personnel, doctors and other staff in hospitals, fighting the front line, Mr. Poula. We see abroad that he is indeed in a large proportion of the medical, nursing and other staff in hospitals. We have predicted staff in order to strengthen and help health structures. He's a big fighter and he's front for the protection of public health. There have been things that have not been done lately. We have arranged issues relating to vulnerable groups of the population, such as kidney disease and such is the renewal of recipes. Also, because you mentioned the reagents, let us tell you that the centers that do the molecular control, the so-called PCR examination, as far as the coronary test is concerned, are more. We're opening more to the hospitals in the country. It's not enough for a machine that you said might exist in a hospital. Special conditions are required. In fact, at this point, I would like to say that the National Center for Bleeding is also in place. Because together with the AHEPA Hospital, we know that it has proper equipment to process thousands of samples a day. We therefore ensure the adequacy of reagents and tests, which must be carried out. Because there is a terrible production potential at the National Center for Hepatitism, which is being put into operation the next few days. It can conduct up to seven and a half thousand diagnostic tests a week. Therefore, the production capacity of the National Health System is greatly increased. That's more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have listened very carefully. You said that you have hired three thousand three hundred eighty-five people through the EGE's notice lately. First of all, I would like you to explain to us about intensive care units. We told you before that we must immediately open up a hundred fifty beds, which were closed at the time. Is that what you've moved on with? So, right now, how many beds have we opened, so that people know about it? Also, in terms of private sector involvement, what is going on? All we have heard is that from 800 euros the bed went 1,600 euros, a day of care in a private unit. This amount is unrealistic. So, at the moment, individuals are using the situation and from EUR 800 are asking for EUR 1,600, while you have gone through a legislative act, which said that everyone should enter the state? It's a little crazy. It is unacceptable that this is happening. You'll have to see it again. Another point you need to see is this: you told us that you would carry out more tests. From what I've heard, it's gonna be seven thousand, two hundred. But they'll take 30 million. Isn't that a matter? So, they're paid, while the others aren't paid, why are they in the state? On the other hand, we are asking you persistently and we are telling you that at least we must recognise the cost of these people who are struggling today, taking them into the heavy and unhealthy. And we say 'no'. Isn't that a serious issue that we need to see? Another problem I would like to highlight concerns the EGE's telephone centre. That's where there's a mess going on. Allow me. I don't want to say heavy words. However, this is not the appropriate response to the incidents. You need to see it again. Because the clinical image of the sick person is very important. A doctor has to see him, because he can understand better if he's in trouble or he doesn't. The relative may call and say some symptoms and do not understand the seriousness of the problem. We'll have to see that. We propose to you this: To make a monitoring and tracking committee, and to incorporate doctors who serve in health centres, civil health centres, TOMY, doctors who are from the Medical Association, who really want to offer, the volunteers who say they exist. And if an incident posed a problem, someone would go to see it. And from that point on, if he has to get into the hospital, order him to enter the hospital. Also, you need to build a line, which is aimed only at health professionals. We cannot currently all fall into one line and there is no result and do two and three and five hours to get priority on the line. These are serious issues. We, in fact, do not want to make opposition. We're just pointing you a few things. There is also the example of Thrace. It should have been a group of people who had been tracking and vigilant in every county. How? You have the tools. A few days ago, we voted for the committee in health regions. There is the region, which has a public health sector. There are the municipalities. There is a lot of nursing staff who are currently working on other tasks. They're the ones who take them and build teams so that they can stay vigilant and tracking, to save phenomena, like the one in Thrace. These are serious things. I'm telling you in a good mood. I hope I'll be heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u47	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Poula, I am sorry for your report, as far as the EGE is concerned, and as you described it. ETA is on the front line of battle. He exaggerates himself. And the results it has achieved are impressive. As regards the traceability to which you have referred - because you have raised some other issues, I will answer, which are out of question - they are made together and coordinate by the state. Also, there's a plan. If necessary, it is slowly, slowly. Because we must also have reserves in the system in order to get people to the frontline, both for doctors in health centres and for private doctors and the whole of the medical community in general. It is a project that is evolving according to how pandemic is evolving in our country. At the moment, a great deal of effort is being made to develop and implement this plan properly. You referred to 30,000,000 euros to private individuals. These 30,000,000 euros are financing EOPY in order to be able to use them to the needs that are likely to arise. The private laboratories, which contribute to the EEA in order to perform the coronary tests, are coming to help the public health system. And they certainly do this at a controlled price and under no circumstances at the price you mentioned when a private person comes alone to do the test and pay for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u49	So, Minister, you say - in order to understand - that I have a private laboratory, if I wish to join the EEAS in order to benefit from the EUR 30 000 000, the price will be set by the EEAS. And I will be paid for at that price.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u51	Good. I would like to clarify that, so that we can understand what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u52	Yes, since this procedure is followed. Anyone can alone...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u53	That wasn't the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u54	Under no circumstances are the amounts mentioned by Mr Poulas. I also told you about intensive care units with the private sector there is clearly a project in progress. We prepared ourselves in time, because we took eighty METH beds in addition to the private sector at the price provided for by the EEA Health Regulation, in order to have intensive care units to deal with seasonal influenza and prepared the private sector in time with the agreement, which we have done, so that we have intensive treatment units to go through incidents from the public sector, in order to have intensive care units exclusively in the public health system to be used for patients with the coronary. In every case we aim to ensure public health, ensure public money, no patient should stay without the care he needs, because it is not just those who are suffering from the coronary, it is also the other patients who need to provide services from the National Health System. I would like to say another thing about the recruitments that you have referred to. These recruitments are not from the EAFRD, they are from the Ministry of Health platforms and the lists of health regions. They are ancillary staff both medical and other ancillary staff, for which, as I said, we have exceeded the initial number of two thousand announced. We're at three thousand two hundred eighty-five recruits. And as far as wage issues are concerned, I would remind you, Mr Poula, that the Prime Minister first pointed out that all people who are now fighting for pandemic will be rewarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u55	We move on to the last question, which is to Mr Contozamanis, too. It is the third under number 601/23-3-2020 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The serious problems of operation due to the subsistence of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is about the major and chronic deficiencies of the University General Hospital of Heraklion, which now also has a reference hospital role because of the evolving epidemic of the coronary. It is the largest hospital in Crete and in southern Greece, which serves more than six hundred thousand inhabitants. Subsistence, sub-financing, lack of infrastructure and the lack of personal protection means in the most acute way show the timeless criminal responsibilities of all governments, leaving people and health-proposed people - literally exposed - to even greater risks. At this juncture that our people are going through, the government insists that it moves the state inadequacy of dealing with the individual responsibility of the citizens and of health, administrative staff without the necessary means and personnel. Inadequacies, however, do not hide, Minister. It can be seen from the identified major staff shortages at the University General Hospital, from the absence of an increased care unit, from the lack of infectious unit, the limited number of ICU beds, the lack of adequate reagents for coronary control. In fact, where will responsibilities be sought, if not in the State itself, when the support for IF beds comes from the merger or closure of parts, when there is no adequate health-massage, gloves, soaps, uniforms, antiseptics - when there is not sufficient number of coronary detection tests? Where will responsibilities be sought, when the MSF operates with reduced staff based on international standards, resulting in five hundred days of leave and two hundred days off, when the MSFs are sorted by a nursing student, while a nursing nurse covers two doctors in the afternoon and evening, when the Heraklion Prefecture Health Centres are subordinated, when all seven TOMYs cannot meet the needs of prevention and health promotion? They are not hiding under the rug, Minister, these shortcomings. The fighting health workers with what they have in these difficult times are really making a heroic effort for public health, but without weapons to deal with the new dangers. However, instead of apologising for the shortcomings and delays, instead of taking all necessary steps to find the hospital ready in the pandemic, the hospital launches oral and written threats to the Workers' Association because it dared to shed light on the problems, shortcomings and shortcomings of the hospital. In our view, it is an act of suffocation and terrorisation of workers. The commander of the University General Hospital of Heraklion came to send a threatening document to the president of the association for an investigation, mentioning a violation of confidentiality, false news, involving criminal prosecution, because he questioned the hospital's level of preparedness as a reference hospital because he dared to highlight the shortcomings the hospital has.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u57	Get to the question, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u58	With all this, Minister, the revealing and undeniably undeniably, you will have to answer without further delay what measures will be taken for the immediate recruitment of all the necessary permanent staff of all specialities and for the immediate simulation of all those who are already working in the hospital with flexible working relationships to open up ICU beds, to create new ones, to serve the TICs, pathological, pulmonary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u59	Good, for all the things you said they were failing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. And for the full equipment with personal protective equipment, ensure a sufficient number of coronary detection in the public health system and not to private individuals, and, of course, what you will do in order to withdraw the threatening decision of the hospital administration to conduct an investigation into complaints made by workers through their trade union body. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Synatiakis, you are an expert. If you put 20 questions, you can't answer them in three minutes any Minister. The timely question is a timely question, not a timely question. Here, Mr Contozamanis, you have the floor with a relative comfort and you because he has put you a river of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Mr Syndrakis has given us all the distortions of the health system and calls for answers to what we will be able to do. We are, Mr Synthraki, in a war and in this war fighters are all, by the nurse and the traumatizer, the doctor as well as the last Greek citizen, who lives in his home in order to defeat this battle. We must assure the people of this country that the battles are being fought and are characterised by the unity of all. And we're giving this battle. We know we're gonna win her. We work every minute of the day with a plan, composing and giving solutions without party and ideological claws. This is not the time for party and ideological controversy. Our aim is to defend public health and ensure the health of each citizen separately. We therefore need responsibility for your criticism and, above all, good information, which you obviously do not seem to have. Mr. Synthyaki, the University General Hospital in Heraklion Crete is a model health structure and is located at the frontline of the battle against the coronary. I'm sure his arithmetic adequacy is controlled. In order to assist staff in all the healthcare areas of the country, including the University General Hospital, the government, the Prime Minister himself, has given clear orders to complete all necessary recruitments and to ensure the necessary equipment and equipment where necessary. And I said in my previous reply to Mr Pula that we have already approved more than three and a half thousand requests for recruitment in hospitals for medical and other subsidiary staff. The University Hospital of Heraklion has been approved and the recruitments are under way. I note that there are seventy-seven places at least to date, twenty-one doctor of various specialties, thirty-fifth nurses, thirteen compulsory education assistants, biologists, assistant nurses. However, the work carried out by the administrations of both the hospital and the 7th Health Region is not limited to recruitment. In particular, the following have been implemented in this battle for the coronary: The Immunosuppressed Coronary Unit with forty beds in which patients are already hospitalised, four additional intensified treatment unit in the space of the existing 12 bed unit, the conversion of the seven beds of the Cardiopathic Intensity Monitoring Unit into intensive care beds, a specific infection reception facility located in the emergency departments with negative pressure chamber and seven examination beds, two negative pressure chambers within the Paedo Psychiatric Clinical, for which all anticipated predictions and protection conditions have been observed. In conclusion, on the basis of what was said by the prosecutor's speech on what was unfortunate and pointlessly mentioned by the chairman of the association of workers in the hospital, I have to say that in no case can behaviours of dispersion of false news be accepted. We are obliged to stand up to the critical situations of home affairs, always on the part of workers in the health system that fights this great battle and is aimed solely at guaranteeing the health of every citizen. This attitude therefore obliges us alone to cancel all efforts to create insecurity and panic with all the means available to the Constitution and the laws of the Greek state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u63	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u64	Minister, the response to these hot and chronological problems is not only awaiting the JRC, mainly awaiting answers from workers and the nurses - all the people - who are going through this test today. In our view, what you have mentioned are ball measures that do not respond to today's needs on the basis of the current data and the problem facing the country, the whole planet. That's why I'm insisting. That is why the government in all tonnes is trying to transfer your responsibilities, the responsibilities of all governments over time, individual responsibility, that is, directives to seafarers. Your responsibility, however, does not stop there, your responsibility is not to mix the deck, it is not to make patches in the hospitals. Your responsibility before all says that you need to take all those necessary measures in order to properly and efficiently operate the public health system and of course to protect the population and the health workers. You tell them, for example, to stay at home and contact their doctor, that's what ETAY says, while you know that there are no family doctors or home hospitals. Primary health structures have serious shortages of personnel and equipment. Thousands of fellow citizens either with light or heavier symptoms call EGEY and the classic moto is "Stay at home". In fact, you are sending them to private diagnostic centers and clinics, paying from EUR 150 to EUR 400, to diagnose whether they have been infected by the coronary and at the same time, you have made sure that you give 30 million euros to the clinical authorities and to the private diagnostic centres. That is why we say that individual responsibility for itself is an empty shirt when it is not based on an integrated central plan. Whose, for example, is the responsibility, if not of the State itself, of full coverage of diagnostic tests and of providing hospitality to the public health system? The recruitments you mentioned - the seventy-seven, eighty-eight, how many have you mentioned? - A subsidiary staff is a drop in the ocean. What responsibility is the coverage of the two thousand vacancies of nurses in the hospitals in Crete, of which four hundred at the University Hospital based in 2012, with the result that a nurse and an assistant nurse per shift are responsible for for forty patients? What responsibility is to cover for forty empty posts of qualified and over eighty posts of qualified doctors at the University Hospital, so that existing doctors are forced into more on-calls? Who is responsible for the absence of more than fifty injured people in PAGAN? It is a mockery for the 7th Ministry of Foreign Affairs to promote that it will hire two hundred ancillary workers for all the public structures in Crete, of which forty are PAGN, when the empty nursing posts for all of Crete - I told you - are two thousand. Whose responsibility is the non-existence of an infectious unit, although it was designed, but has never worked, so that infectious diseases are treated in the common clinical - pathological, pulmonary, gastrointestinal - reducing rooms for the hospitalisation of other patients and increasing the risk of virus dispersal in pathological patients? Whose responsibility is the fact that the care unit never worked in a otherwise tertiary hospital, while there is also space and machinery to operate fifteen ICU beds? While there have been negative pressure chambers ready since 2003 because of SARS, they have been closed to create the paedophilia. Now, too, it is limited to half the space, because the operation of these chambers has been considered not necessary. So here's how you mix the deck to make the patches and present it as allegedly operating smoothly the University General Hospital, while that's not the case. They don't need good words from the sanitarians. What they want is to be protected, what they want is to bring back the thirteenth and fourteenth wages, want their integration into heavy and unhealthy. They don't need the applause, the same time you're sending them to a war without weapons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Synatiakis, please, get it completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u66	I therefore think - and I close with this - that today the development and achievements of technology have reached such a level that can really contribute to the prevention and treatment of pandemic, so that no patient die alone and helpless at home, as long as it is put to the service of people's needs in a public and free health system with full staff and resources. I think it's wrong for the sanitationian to threaten the hospital commander. You should review this, withdraw this threat, this document to the President, because it opens the door to Halos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u67	All right, Mr. Synatia, please, get it over with. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Synthraki, I would ask you at this difficult time for the country, for the health system to stand up to the circumstances and to overcome some of the ideas you have. I would like to assure you, unfortunately, that we are on the same side as the workers who are currently fighting the health system in order to deal with this pandemic. We're next to the hospital worker, the doctor, the nurse, the cleaner, the wounded. We are, however, against every attempt to exploit the weaknesses of the system, for which we have covered a very short period of time in this battle. And it is a pity that the only aim and purpose of trade unionists is to satisfy micro-political purposes and create panic. All parties, all the institutions in the country must ensure that the front is sloppy in this battle, and we must be united, without creating fear and panic. We too, because we have a duty to safeguard the credibility of the health system that really has inadequacies at the moment, it has shortcomings, there are distortions in previous years, we are fighting the fight with the workers in the health system and we will do so using every means, without calculating the political cost. We are here to work together for each Greek and every Greek woman, so that we can ensure the right to universal access to the public health and public health system is the system supported by the Government of New Democracy and in no case is this at any cost to the patient. And a clarification of what you said about covering the test, the citizen who performs the test is not charged, Mr. Syntagakis. This is fully covered by the National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u69	Parliamentary control is completed. We continue with three communications to this House: First, the Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs for Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, submitted on 20-320 a draft law: ‘Statement of a) of 25-2-20 Municipalities and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, and State as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 20-320 (a) of 25-20 Municipalities of 25-20 Municipalities and Municipalities ‘Absolute measures to avoid and limit the spread of coronary (A' 42), (b) of 11-3-20 Municipalities to the Prime Minister and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, ‘Absolute measures to address the negative consequences of the occurrence of COVID -19 coronary -19 and the need to limit its proliferation’ (A' 55) and of 14-20 Municipal Restriction of COVID. Secondly, the Ministers for Migration and Asylum, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Health, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy tabled a draft law on 20-3-2020: ‘Suspension of the application for asylum’ (A'45)’. They shall be referred to the competent standing committees. And the last announcement: The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum: ‘Suspending from 10-220 MDG ‘Urgent property requisition arrangements to avoid risks to public policy and health’ (A'28) and from 2-320 MDG ‘Suspending the application for asylum’ (A'45)’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Unique discussion and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law: "Structuring it from 10.2.20 B.C. ‘Urgent property requisition arrangements to avoid risks to public order and health’ (A'28) and of 2.3.20 P.N.P. ‘Suspension of applications for asylum’ (A'45)’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 March 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting in the process of organised debate, uniform, in principle, on articles and amendments. Do I have your agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u71	So we start with the two general rapporteurs and then we will continue with the four special speakers. I will ask, after the Minister, whether he wants to make his position and whether the parliamentary representatives will follow or whether the Parliamentary representatives will also speak and the Minister will close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u72	After the rapporteurs, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u73	Yes, sir. As far as I can see, a ministerial amendment has been tabled and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u74	We had said to be relevant to the crisis, and it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u75	It's absolutely relative, 101%. It's Mr. Georgiadis. To be distributed to everyone, please, if they haven't already taken it. I call on the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, Mrs Sophia Vultesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. As we know, the government today brings two legislative acts to the House. One concerns the requisition of immovable property for the creation of closed hosting centres in order not to jeopardise public order and health and the other concerns the suspension of applications for asylum. It is only to repeat the arguments that support the need to vote in favour of these two legislative initiatives. All Greeks realise that it is not possible for foreigners, who illegally enter our country, to circulate uncontrollablely. It is well known what happened on the islands in previous years with stabbing, arson, pavilions of the squares, etc. This is not possible, however, much more in coronary crisis conditions. SYRIZA, on Mr. Muzala, supported closed centres and stated that the asylum procedure should be held under detention conditions and that there should be closed centres. I would like to take this opportunity to point out to those Members who are going to speak next. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] In the past, too, the NGOs, as well as the SYRIZA government itself, found the last lion tree to rent. There is a risk of transmission of infectious diseases. Our islands have been under orders for all these years, seizing and trespassing property. We all understand that it is also not possible to attack Evros, and at the same time to circulate properly, and that the asylum procedure will normally continue as if nothing had happened. However, despite all this, we know from the committee that opposition does not intend to vote in favour of legislative acts. As if it hadn't been one day, like there's no coronary crisis and as if we didn't have to attack Evros, they still say the same thing they said before. I will not go on with this. The people agree with us and do not forget what happened in 2015, when the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL gave Erdogan the tool of extortion without any change in geopolitical conditions in Syria. It's just make news everything that's coming up. The Greek people know and recognize the government's efforts on all fronts of defending the Greek territory by every invader. That's why we've been voted on and that's what we're going to do. Messages that refer to general invitations, we won't. But I am now going to another matter which is the issue of days. At a time when the people are trying to face up to this double threat, while all of them are making their cross with horror what would happen if SYRIZA were to govern the country with its partners - we speak with people and everyone says the same thing, that they would have passed from above us all immigrants and the coronary - while everyone remembers what happened in Eye with the Prosecutor's finding to say that even if it did not blow up again, because of a lack of coordination, while everyone - government, civilians, police officers, port firefighters, doctors, nurses, doctors, workers who continue to serve the social group, volunteers - they run over, from the border to the islands and cities, in order to deal with this unprecedented situation, I see that SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, his former assistants, his volunteers, are running over from the border to the islands and people, as well as one of them, one of them, and one of them, as well. To say, instead of sitting quiet until the boar passes, they are finally trying to divide the people and instead of standing by the government and Mr. Tsipras next to Mr. Mitsotakis, gaining from the recognition of common efforts, because that is what the people would see, what they do? They have all entered a threat procedure and even very formal lips. This: "After we'll reason" what is it? Who is SYRIZA threatening his staff, small and large? Is the new one either "we or they"? It is the new one: 'Will we end or end them?' The country is in danger and some are playing on Twitter. One dispersed false news about capital control, the other threatens to make up Karaiskakis - out of the way and not stuck - and are not random, they are your executives, they are here, in Parliament. And this gentleman now justifies us that he got a loan from Karaiskakis, and who had Karaiskakis told these aromatics? The Greeks or the Turks and Mahmoud Pasha? But let us cut off the gentleman who cannot use his language, otherwise there is an example of permissiveness to answer him. Such courage and hatred and free magic from the safe! Let us leave the statements by Mr Tsipras and Mr Haritsis himself. While we are all fighting to keep the world inside the house, they say the government is hiding behind individual responsibility and that the world is making its individual responsibility, but the government is not doing the collective responsibility. Well, that's uncomfortable. She means she doesn't do her own duty. But this is like an invitation not to stay home. Let each one say: “Okay, will I only do my duty? Will the government not do its own duty?' Is it possible to undermine “We Stay Home” in this way? And when Mr. Harris tells us that only restrictive measures are adopted, what does he mean only restrictive? It's superstitious. How's it going to happen? He can't stand the system, we can't be Spain. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I may need another minute. Look, things are specific here and I want to finish my speech with what happened and is happening in Spain and Italy. They're the models you're advertising us. Simple analogue, quadruple and five-party governments, which no one is in agreement with each other. Sanchez and Iglesias, your friends, who have now taken the army down to the street in Spain, and let Mr. King not dare, let's go and look over there. They had it on the sorolop properly. On March 8, with ten dead and hundreds of cases, people were invited to mass events for "Women's Day", which all came down to Madrid, over a hundred thousand women and men, and of course in all cities. The cases came up vertically, they all got sick and all their wives, Sanchez's wife, Igles's wife, the Deputy Prime Minister, and it became what happened, football matches, all of this. In other words, this is not the end of capitalism, which Mr. Tsipras also says, the coronary did not kill capitalism, killed capitalism, and wants stability to escape from it. And don't ask yourself what's happened. In Italy, sixty-six governments in seventy-seven years were transferring responsibilities to the regions, each one made its heads in the past few months, another was abolishing carnivals, another was canceling football matches, another was closing schools, another was opening up museums, another was opening them, another was opening them, Chinese charterers arrived to celebrate Chinese New Year in Italy, disputes within the four-party government, disagreements between government and regions. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need one more minute. As soon as the day before yesterday, the decree was adopted, in order to harmonize the measures between the centre and the regions. In Spain there were four elections in four years, a minority government, there is no statement, no budget voted, I do not know where it will give them 200 million. Some way she'll find out, I imagine, because she doesn't have a budget. They are seventeen autonomous provinces, two autonomous cities, exclusive powers. 'They were founded' in order to declare the country in an emergency and only on 15 March. The autonomous communities have said that their autonomy will be restricted and what will happen, the coronary will be removed and they will be left with this problem. The same within the government. The Ministerial Council met four times in eight days and agreed nothing. The Prime Minister's special request for emergency was delayed seven hours before fighting the Minister. The Scientific Committee was set up one week after the emergency, Iglesias broke the quarantine, so he could go and ask that he be able to chair the NDP committee, the National Intelligence Agency. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but first they asked the prescribers in Spain and then they asked the doctors about what they'd do! It is not by chance that what is happening is the result of intergovernmentality and inconsistency, what you are advertising to us all day with the simple analogue, with the co-operation governments, the minority governments. So the coroner killed him, unfortunately along with thousands of people. And when all this is over, you will not be accounted for with us, you will be accounted for with the people who will effectively abolish the simple analogue. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u77	We shall proceed with our colleague, Mr Ioannis Muzala, the rapporteur from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that it is the least inappropriate, when Italy, France and Spain lament the dead and are in this difficult situation, the rapporteur of the New Democracy - so it does not express herself - to try to highlight the political system of these countries, the mistakes of the PODEMOS, the mistakes of mere actuarial and all this. I think it's inappropriate. The message from Parliament must be an absolute support for this tragedy that these countries live in. It's all in the coronary. We are talking about this today. Listen to me. This government has had the excellent blessing that all parties of the Opposition, all from the very first moment we have supported as self-evident what the World Health Organization has said - it is not the invention of a party - "We live at home". And our people, in other words by confidence in the government and others by lack of confidence in the government. So over there, we've all been in agreement from the beginning. Where are we not in agreement? Where can we, as SYRIZA, be associated with statements and the Change Movement and the Communist Party of Greece? In the absence of initiatives by the government, i.e. in order to strengthen the public health system immediately. There's no excuse for that. Within a week there were recruits of a thousand five hundred police officers. I'm not saying it happened badly, I'm saying there's a way to do it. If the hospitals collapse, if the public health system collapses, the situation will be very bad. And it will be the government's responsibility, because our people and opposition parties have put in 'plate', we have disciplined, we have supported this. Unfortunately, it's not the Change Movement that has to do the recruitments, it's not SYRIZA who has to do the recruitments, it's not the Communist Party that has to do the recruitments, it's the Government. And he doesn't. We don't have antiseptics, we don't have masks, we don't have in. We had to go out every afternoon and say "We stayed at home, we did this, twenty more beds were made, ten Beds, ten Beds from an increased care facility". Nothing, everything in an individual responsibility. Some people think they're dressing "Chickstones". "Blackcord" dress, do not dress "Chickstone". Black-collared! You give it all to an individual responsibility, which is individual responsibility and which the Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u79	That's a good thing, Black-hort.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u80	He made the Messolong...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u81	Okay. So you pay it all to a people who have individual responsibility to deny your responsibilities. It makes no sense now to refer to scandals with the increase in the price for beds of intensive care units, speculation in various kinds of immediate need and all that. The economic measures you take are not sufficient and all the opposition tells you that again. The rest of Europe tells you that from the way it reacts. You think the spring, as someone said yesterday, will be ejected afterwards. The spring must be ready to be ejected and you do everything you can so that the spring is loose and never ejected. However, we must move on to today's subject: we have two acts of legislation, which could not have come. They could have been discussed in time with the bill as amendments within the bill. It didn't happen. As far as we are concerned, many New Democracy MPs have come out of a difficult position. However, they are being discussed today. So let's go see what the first one says. The first one says that these areas will be imposed. You failed! You failed, you humiliated the police. You have brought the islands into conflict with the central government of the country and with the mainland, which has never existed before. Night went the MATs and left the MATs. They went like an army of occupation and fled like a naughty army. Are you going to the Karava center? Are you going to the Caesar Center? Are you going to get dry? You don't even know exactly what you want. You have some plans for the centers you're going to do, what's it gonna be, what's it gonna be? One will be closed, no mosquito passes. The other one will be closed, but it will be controlled. I would like to tell you that what I was saying in the House, and I insist, is that the management of immigration and refugee, also needs closed centres. This is different from these lymphs, which are contrary to European law and international law, that all centres will be closed. Not controlled. Others say closed, others say a little controlled, very closed, etc. You're gonna put families in the closed centers? You put in the Key. For the first time in our country's history you have put families, young minors in closed centers. You unaccompanied minors in closed centers, which are not well-built. This is not something that we can blame you today, but we will see how it develops. So we have eight months of proclamations: we will do this, we will not do this, we will do the other, we will go to drying, we may go to drying, we will not go to drying, or we will be "closed" centers, maybe not, they will have AMKA, they will not have AMKA. But something we can talk about specifically, which you have done, you have done nothing and the proposals you are making are undemocratic, they are in breach of the law, but they are also ineffective. Let us assume, then, that you are doing seven thousand centers in Karava. So what? In three months it'll be filled. What are you gonna do next? Refunds. Where are you going to make refunds? Will you return to Pakistan, which you have not considered a safe country on the basis of the list you have taken and with which we have no cooperation? Are you going to make returns to Iran? You're going to make refunds where? You will probably do in Morocco if Morocco cooperates. You'll be in Algeria if Algeria cooperates. Where else are you going to make refunds? Will you return with the Europe-Turkey Declaration? Once you send them to the mainland, while you say, 'we don't want to bring them to the mainland, to make refunds'? You're not gonna do anything. Once again satisfy your extreme right-wing audience, satisfy a fearful audience and try to create new fears in society. Use the coronary as a pretext and make announcements, which are graphic. That is to say, now listen to Moria's advice: 'To wipe the knots and not to touch them'. What knob? Seventeen thousand people live out of the center. What knob? Samo, you're telling Samo not to go to the gym. What gym? What do you say to the world? Decongestion. Has this thing been through your mind for decongestion? It is called by the islanders, all opposition parties say so, Johanson says so by the United Nations, the European Union says so. How about you? No, to what end? Make the center in Karava and the center in Aipus. And then, as soon as these are filled, where are you going to go back to centers? What exactly are you going to do? It takes immediate action, such as decongestion, even gradually, because this is where you arrived, with twenty thousand in Moria and eight thousand in Samos, they do not take place in one night. Decongestion must be organized and progressed. This will give islanders and guarantees that there is probably another plan. I wanted to tell you at this point and for the guarding of borders. You're kidding us, it seems to me. You're making fun of the Greek people. You guard the border for something self-evident that happened in Evros and that all the Opposition and SYRIZA supported them with all their strength. Before there was this on Evros, and SYRIZA didn't do it? There was this before Evros, and Mr. Samaras didn't do it? There's never been in Evros what happened now and that happened in particular. So why do you use it like that? Why do you separate the Greeks? Are you more patriots? Let me tell you this: On SYRIZA the responsibility of the Army, which is responsible for the border, was held by Mr Stefanis, who is your Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Colleague, you must be brief. In one or two minutes close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u83	Police responsibility was held by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Civil Protection. They didn't guard the border? I don't know how to tell you what you're going to do. Did they order SYRIZA to stay the border unguarded? You're kidding. You're knocking on noise pens, they're shining and you think the world is being convinced. But the world is not convinced that way. He's questioning you practically, and this thing to solve, it needs decongestion. I'm coming to the asylum and I'm going to hang up with this. Inhibiting asylum for a month, which ends, I think, on 1 April, is a right that a country can have. It is included in the convention of the Treaty and is also included in European law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u84	What contract, what article?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u85	I'll tell you, Mr. Loverdo. But just a moment, I'm going to finish what I'm saying. But what's going on? When did this thing happen? It has happened in Yugoslavia, which was also a European directive and which the states have not implemented, but each state has implemented its own measures. It has also happened in Tanzania, Uganda and Thailand. We've been talking since 1960. How did this thing happen? The countries said, 'our asylum service cannot cope with this situation, and that is why we are suspending asylum and granting international protection, which is lower than asylum, but gives rights'. So that's what happened. You don't do that. What do you say, believe in the doctrine of prevention? We don't have asylum, and we're kicking them out. Who are you prosecuting? Where are you gonna send them to get them? Why are you lying to people here? Why are you lying to the Greek people? The Turkey-Europe declaration cannot be applied, in the countries of origin cannot be returned, you are violating all the law and on 1 April what are you going to do? Are you going to renew the asylum suspension and on 1 May you will renew the asylum suspension? Why don't you come out and say clearly what you want to do. Prevent you want to do and you think this is the way to prevent it. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We say again, then, that your policy leads to deadlocks. I'm saying, too, and I've said it before, that this is probably a plan. It is not just an inability, it is a project to create social conflicts and increase xenophobic natural reactions in the world. I do not say justified, but I say natural reactions and I say it as a doctor. Fear toward the stranger is a natural reaction to man. This plan won't work. You humiliated us when you went to Evros and sat down with the three highest officials of the European Union and you are glad that we are the shield and where we will be the shield. Is that our future? Is that what you dream of the Greek people? Should we be the shield of the European Union? We have a deep difference in this thing. We believe that the solution cannot be a deterrent, which is not practically done, but the solution must be diplomatic and managed. There can be no deterrence of attacks, such as those on Evros, we are obliged to do and do well, but for everything else you are mocking. I would like to finish by saying a word about the President of the Republic. The President of the Republic - and I am very pleased with that - made a very good speech, where he said that we must guard our borders and, at the same time, fulfil our humanitarian duty towards defenceless people, a difficult but not impossible equation. This equation must be resolved. We can solve it by working together, but we cannot solve it by force, by drowning, by violating all international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u86	The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. George Kaminas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. The dilemmas which are being put forward, ladies and gentlemen, are marginal, and the first dilemma is put by the government itself because it brings us to a bill to ratify two legislative acts, one we agree with and the other we disagree. What we disagree with is the act that allows property to be purchased on the islands. Unfortunately, it means what the islanders have suspected and complained at the outset, that the planned closed structures will eventually coexist with the already operating reception and identification centres and that the Moria-type impoverishment phenomena will continue. After all, we in the Change Movement, before the crisis broke out in Evros, said that the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, which the previous government also invoked, and the current one to keep asylum seekers on the islands, has basically collapsed. So we repeat it. We refuse to subscribe to a government policy which divides Greek citizens into two categories: the islanders of the North Aegean, who are once again condemned to take the full national responsibility for the refugee issue, and the other Greeks who are relieved of their participation in the national project. This is an obscure violation of the principle of equality among the Greeks before the law. Yesterday I read on the protagon.gr website a news I ignored, a letter that the European Union Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs sent to the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and calls for the evacuation of the forty-two thousand people on the Greek islands as an emergency measure to prevent many deaths from the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u88	They say where to go? Share in Europe?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u89	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u90	They won't accept that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u91	MEPs fear that if the coronary spreads, it could lead to a state of emergency for public health. Many of those in the camps remain uncertain because of the bad conditions under which they have been living for a long time. Let me mention that there have been coronary cases in Lesvos. Indeed, the MEPs are not telling us that they will be accepted in their own countries, but we should see what we will do on our own.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u92	To get anyone, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u93	This is not a debate, of course! With regard to the second act of legislation, which imposes a suspension of asylum claims, we will vote in favour of its ratification, but with some reservations, because it does not find any basis in either the Constitution, the European law or the Geneva Convention, which does not provide for such a suspension. A number of examples of temporary suspension of asylum claims have already been mentioned by Mr Muzala in cases where they were subjected to mass and could not be received by national authorities. It happened to us, Mr. Muzala, this, in 2008. Then Peter Rallie for a long time did not accept asylum applications precisely for that reason. It is a terrible dilemma that we face because we are in the face of a situation which is essentially not provided for under divine law. An extraordinary and unforeseen situation is the one that emerged in Evros and could justify taking this extreme measure, which is in any event temporary, as is the case in the legislative act. Where does this extraordinary and unforeseen result from? It comes from something, in my opinion, I do not know before. It is that a country is planning, organising and guiding itself through its government the attempt at mass and violent violation of the borders of a neighbouring country - and indeed its ally in NATO - by passing out crowds of desperate people. This is an unprecedented situation, which we can say that as long as it lasts, at this time, Greece can make this exceptional measure. Its term of office ceases in a few days, and the government will then have to see how it will come and ask for its renewal. However, we should at all times speak very clearly and know what we are saying. The government is not allowed to lie in such a serious measure. It is not allowed to invoke the recent judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of the two who were attempted in Melilla, in the enclaves of that Spanish state on Moroccan soil, to jump the fence and enter. Indeed, the European Court of Justice accepted the push back in this case, but it said that each country must ensure that one, even one, I would say, is a point of entry. I must say that, at the moment, I am not in a position to say this, but at least we need to know what the explanatory memorandum contains. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And indeed, anyone who has watched immigration and refugee times, as I try to do, understands how difficult returns are. Pakistan for years and Bangladesh is not receiving any refunds. In economic terms, the Mahreb countries can accept them. Turkey at the moment, with the huge problem because of the coronary, does not accept refunds, but I do not think that if there are still flows from Turkey through the sea again, when the weather improves, we can continue to keep the world on the islands. In any case, the government's move to bring people to mainland Greece is a move, which admits that the joint declaration has basically collapsed. In our opinion, Mr Minister, is the Greek Government's position that the statement is valid or not? We need to hear that. Is the Joint Declaration still valid or not? We just want a clear position from the government so that we can exercise our opposition as we should but with a national sense of responsibility. But we have to hear the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u94	The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konnakka Maria.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. In these really difficult circumstances, which the Prime Minister himself likened to war, it is a great challenge that the government chooses to regain to debate a decision that the previous period attempted to impose by fire and iron by converting the islands into a war zone. And it is challenged at a time when the functions of this House have been limited to the absolutely necessary and the measures to deal with the pandemic, to hide behind the deadlines to legitimize with fast-track decisions that you have failed to implement because you have found the people of the islands in your presence. The people of the islands what he made clear with his mobilisations is that we do not want our islands to be transformed into vast prisons of the European Union. We don't want the disgrace of Moria, or the new concentration camps. Neither in Karava, nor in Tokmakia, or other landslides that are still reproaching your executives. The organised mass decapitation of refugees and immigrants is the solution, not the choice between Scylla or Harybdis. People's reaction will not squeeze behind the masks and containment measures. Do not attempt to build structures like a thief in the middle of quarantine, because you already bear the responsibility for the situation that you have created on the islands, for the explosive conditions of the caging of thousands of people you insist to keep on the islands by continuing the same policy as your predecessors of SYRIZA. You still bear heavy responsibility for the Ordinance of Repression of MATs that you think we have forgotten, but also for the tolerance you have shown to the phenomena of para-state groups that represent the cannabis in the region almost in the eyes of the police, teams that, by acting, strengthen your design to present as a unique solution for dealing with this explosive situation, the creation of the closed concentration camps of thousands of afflicted people. You are calling today as a pretext for the creation of closed prison centres the need to protect public health and the risk of spreading the coronary. It is only debatable to say it when you are even now emptying all the mass meetings, but you refuse to disembowel the thousands of refugees and immigrants from the islands. You even considered it more dangerous to stay in the students' homes that the ninety students who had been allocated to six Aegean islands, than to stay locked twenty-two thousand in Moria, eight thousand in Samos and others how many in Chios and the other islands. You embody with these choices huge responsibilities not only to the whole world that is not to blame for being faced with such situations, but also to the inhabitants of the islands, when in normal conditions, before the pandemic, hospitals and health centers were unable to meet the increased needs of this whole population. The same developments, therefore, are the ones that require not to speed up the process of caging by creating closed concentration camps on the islands, but to proceed here and now to organised decapitation of all asylum seekers from the islands. Transfer and share human, open hospitality structures and rapid procedures to demand that they be relocated to their countries of destination in the European Union. What is in the way of these self-evident demands is your attachment to the policy of caging imposed by the European Union. It was the Dublin Regulation, which New Democracy, PASOK, then, and the SYRIZA coalition today - you all supported and moved the finger in the JRC that denied it, but also the unacceptable joint declaration by the European Union and Turkey, the achievement of SYRIZA on the consequences of which it is hypocritically protesting. An agreement that has, in fact, become inactive and that is what you are calling for so far as an obstacle to the decapitation of refugees from the islands. However, the New Democracy is calling for its resurrect today, now that Turkey has in every way turned it into a ragboard. Who is he, however, who gives Erdogan today an alibi to use refugees and immigrants for his various geopolitical pursuits? Is it other than the European Union and the United States that see Turkey's invasion in Idlib fair enough to pave the way for a more general questioning and border breach? Of course, this is why Turkey's attack on Syria did not find the Greek Government to say a word of complaint. So what support and sensitivity of European officials are you striving to convince the people when they remember European borders only when it comes to the release of refugees and systematically forgetting them about the constant challenges and challenges of our sovereign rights by Turkey? The solution to the acute problem of refugee cannot be sought through commitment to European Union regulations and agreements. Much more cannot be sought through the dangerous pursuit of the government to upgrade the country's role in imperialist planning in the south-eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East and elsewhere. Really, what sovereign rights will Greek military forces defend in Mali, Libya, Saudi Arabia? Will you also say about the uprooted people who will be created there that in their country they have no war and are not entitled to asylum? The policies that fuel the imperialist carnage and the uprooting of the people are the ones that then impose the enclavism of the uprooted on the islands and the country, but they also form the basis for the refugees to become a ball in the hands of governments. Therefore, any action taken by the government to ensure the necessary border guards can now be converted into a vehicle to reinstate the rights of refugees. In this respect, we are also firmly opposed to the second act of legislation suspending the right to apply for asylum for a month. Apart from the apparent violation of international law, which you cannot invoke a card, it is a completely inhuman but also a deadlock, since it will only be possible to fill the country with prisoners and, of course, to constantly increase the list of victims who will be looking for more dangerous ways to escape war and impoverishment. Nor can you convince yourself that it is possible in such circumstances to succeed in returning all these people. This measure must be withdrawn immediately and there must be no thought of extending it. The proposal that today gives a real way out of the situation created by the thousands of incarcerated refugees making a ball in the hands of Erdogan is now, under the responsibility of the UN and the European Union, now to organise the examination of asylum claims on Turkey's territory, on the border with Greece and Syria, and from there safely to transport refugees to their country of destination. This proposal was submitted by the JRC during the crisis in 2015, but was ignored by the then government. We're reintroducing it today. This measure can support the right of refugees to protection on the basis of international conventions. We call again on the Greek people, especially the people of the islands and the border regions, to organise their struggle by turning the fires to the responsible and the causes of the problem. To isolate both reactionary nationalism and repression, which hide the true guilty by shifting the problem to the uprooted, as well as the dangerous cosmopolitan theory of open-minded borders that acquits Turkish bourgeoisie, the European Union, NATO and the United States. Folkness and alliance for the people to have in their struggles against the urban governments and their imperialist partners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Mylonakis Antonis is now called in Stepma from the Greek Solution. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I am truly sorry, but I have to say it. The government is in a helmet. You've lost the eggs and the passovers. With the coroner, let's figure it out. It's a flu, a horrific virus, which insults the whole world. The whole world was terrified, closed in their homes. But finding the opportunity to pass acts of legislation and amendments, as you want them to, reveals that you did not plan, but you do not plan to get the country out of the deadlock. First of all, I would like to say a lot about the day before yesterday, 25 March. I hope that next year we will be celebrating our dual national festivities with brightness. On the other hand, once again, we will regret the victims, which are twenty-three with today. Unfortunately, he lost his life and a forty-six-year-old warden of the Fourth Army, who was hospitalized at a hospital in Alexandroupolis, who had no health problems, from what I am learning. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of the government, yesterday happened things and miracles. He can't answer the Department of Defense for the aircraft.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u98	He disproved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u99	He disproved it, all right. The President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, said so, and I thank him. I didn't know that because I was in plenary. But the other thing, with the Deputy Minister and the Turkish out-of-date, who was headed by the port ship to Perimos and Kalymnos, west of Imia, prevented the ship from being blocked by the port vessel of the Turks, namely the patrol, and left, was not mentioned by the Ministry of Defence. We need to take care of these. Like the Turkish Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Mr Ministers, with the continental shelf and the coordinates he has sent to. Mrs Theophile, our representative in the United Nations simply replied that there is no continental shelf issue and it is outside international law. I told you again and said that there is no International Maritime Law and Law for Turkey. It's the law of the mighty. Thank you, too, for fighting day and night for us without us. They are all these, except hospital staff - doctors, nurses, paramedical staff - who are outside - Greek police, national guards, army - and all those who are at the border and guarding us. Yesterday we only had thirty-seven violations of Greek airspace, ten overcrowdings and four complications. Things are so hard. We shall now proceed to the today's subject of two legislative acts. One is for health and public security purposes, and the other is for an extension for one month of asylum. Listen, Minister, Mr. Undersecretary, we have told you that what you are doing is nothing more than continuing a national crime launched by SYRIZA. You insist and you don't want to understand. I believe that once again after a few days you will tell us that 'you are absolutely right'. Both SYRIZA and the KKE and all opposition parties have said so. You will not find a way to bring these people into a situation that will benefit the Greek people. You bring them inside. Who are you bringing inside? Bring those who came from March 1st to today, over a thousand five hundred or so people so far. Yesterday you also said that twenty-eight points would be accepted by illegal immigrants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u100	In existing structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u101	Yes, in existing structures. They're twenty-eight, but they'll be enriched.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u103	How not? If you say you'll bring them in. Where are you taking them? Mr. Metarakis, I don't want to be a tale of the world once again. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u104	Don't have a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u105	The Minister answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u106	In Sintic, the structure is new, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u107	The Sintic Municipality is a new structure. Inside these are some new ones. But we're asking where you're going to put these people? And how many are you going to put in twenty-eight points? Will you make twenty-eight new towns? I want you to answer us. So you take these people from there, you give the world the money, you transfer them to the mainland, and you disperse them. First, you haven't passed them through medical tests. And don't tell me now that these people are going through medical examinations. Here Greeks do not pass medical examinations and are forced to close their house in, wash their hands ten times a day, put forty times a day antiseptic. In the end, their hands and faces will shut up. And you have immigrants, illegal immigrants, illegal immigrants, we will tell them - because they are now proved, Minister, and I told you the other day, with Erdogan's energy - that all those who want to invade and invade our homeland, surrounded by certain families, who are indeed entitled to asylum, to 90% or more, are Turkish invaders, are mercenaries who are from Iran, from Pakistan, from Afghanistan, from Iraq, that is to say, countries that the krone reaps - and take them as they are and bring them in. Secondly, we have the case that we have told you before. Not in the interior, but in uninhabited islands we would have built up structures for two to three months, which, as you say, you will drive them out. And where are you taking them? Mr Mouszalas told you very rightly, but also Mr Kamines that there is no country that accepts these people. And what is the country that will accept them, since the ambassadors of the countries do not cooperate? So you'll have them on the inside, you'll fill up, you'll make every hot spot, which is controlled, it won't be closed - so you've told us: controlled - and they'll go in. And you have now made a legislative act for Moria and the other structures on the islands. And what do you think? That they'll be able to come out of here every hour, go from Moria to Mytilini and go back. First, there's no way anyone's going back on time. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask your tolerance for one or two minutes. Second, why tens? So, for poachers, it doesn't apply by itself? Is it only true for him who's going to download his little dog to go and do his need and check it out? We've got a thousand eight hundred fines so far. I think if this thing goes on, the Greek people will be totally against you because you cannot make fun of him. So we come and tell you again once again: not closed structures on the islands, not expropriations, not what you are going to do. In uninhabited islands, no requirements need expropriations or nothing. We build structures there and then they will leave for their countries. We come to the issue of asylum. Why for a month? The month's over. What are you gonna do? What have we said? That most of them and over 90% are not entitled to asylum. Finally, this story about asylum. Because there are people here who are four years or three years old and are still waiting for asylum. Yes or no? Yeah. So we'll be filled here. More than one million and a half will come, because they go through all the time. And now, at the moment we're talking, they're passing through - and Evros is passing through. And where are you taking them? You catch them on the highway in Ennatia and take them to Sintic City. I was also impressed by the Mayor and the others in the Municipality of Sintic who accepted a hundred meters from the village to make a hot spot, in which you will put - how many? - A thousand five hundred, two thousand. What's going to happen there? What about the other hot spot? And then what are you gonna do? And the people in Moria that you're taking, who are already, I'm learning, more than thirty-five thousand in and out? And don't tell me these people wash or wash their hands. They didn't have any water when we went, but no one has gone from here except the Greek Solution on the islands, getting into Moria to see what's going on in there and on the other hot spot. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u108	Is it possible to say such things?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kumucaco, do they have knobs there and clean them up? Do they all have water? Do they have hot water? How are they taking a bath? But can you say such things to the Greek people? Where are these people going?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Comrade, you're over time. Your Chief will also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u111	We've gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u112	You're the only ones who've been there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u113	I'm done. That's what we went for. Because it is not possible to say things that cannot be implemented. Is that just the Europeans or the Asians or the Americans hitting the coronary? The Africans don't hit them? And now we're talking about Ezino! You put Ehino in quarantine! Where do they come from? And if possible, Minister! You have all the media of yours! All of it! Not once has he ever made any means to talk! None! It's all right! We'll take it. The Greek people will judge you for what you are doing. They're here, he says, from Germany to Ehino! What do you think? Oh, I heard the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u114	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u115	I shall conclude, Mr President. Fifteen minutes did the gentleman...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u116	You'll talk for two more minutes, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u117	So in Echinos, he says, they came from Germany. But they didn't come from Germany. Muslims are over there, most of whom came from Turkey. What are you talking about? And houses, he says, are sticky with each other, so they stick a coronary. What the fuck is this shit I hear? Has anyone gone to Ehino? Ehinos has houses with yards. Here, in Athens, it's on each other! Unbelievable things are happening! Incredible things! You have closed the Greek people in your homes and you are going through whatever acts of legislation you want! The Greek Solution says it and will keep calling it "no" in the mainland! 'yes' to the decongestion of the islands now! 'yes' to uninhabited islands with structures for two to three months and then to their countries! 'no' to the request for asylum! They're not immigrants, they're not refugees. They're Turks who came to invade our country! 'No', therefore, for the first act of legislation on pensions, 'no' and for asylum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs Fotini Bakadima is now called to Step 25. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the days we have spent are difficult and unprecedented, with the horn of the horn threatening us all. It is a pandemic that has come to find a weakened national health system in our country, a system which has been ruthlessly hit by the crisis of the last decade and all those austerity policies that have poorly and devastated Greece even more. Acknowledging the criticality of the situation, we have all supported the measures taken, however hard they may be, such as the last curfew measure. As MERA25 we have expressed our support and the need to comply with expert directives and we will continue to do so. We have tabled comprehensive and costly proposals, and we will soon come with new up-to-date proposals aimed at the financial relief of our fellow people who have been most affected by what we are experiencing, while at every opportunity we continue to stress the need for support from the ESS with the recruitment of medical and nursing staff, with the payment of received newspapers from doctors who have not been paid in January and February, with the provision of equipment and with many other initiatives that should be taken. However, we cannot in the name of conscientiousness - which is certainly necessary to overcome the threat of the coronary - support legislative proposals that are vertically contrary to our principles, such as those two MDGs we are debating today. As I pointed out to the committee, it is surprising that, instead of the first act of legislation that would come to Parliament, the measures taken to limit the spread of the virus, we have a bill on the loading of immigrant immigrant property and the suspension of applications for asylum. The government, invoking an asymmetrical threat, which needs to be restrained and the inability to examine asylum applications in due time - let me say that it is worthwhile to use the term reasonable time, since before the pandemic we all know very well that asylum applications have taken too long to be examined - is moving on to suspend applications. Now that we have a brief and a little more detailed examination of the articles of the bill, the first article in fact introduces the first act of legislation and provides for building on refugees' islands, a proposal which we find very opposing. After all, we all remember the strong reactions of the people in Lesvos and Chios, their conflicts with the MATs that broke out precisely because of the government's plan to create closed structures. But, unfortunately, given the current situation, the New Democracy is trying to take advantage of the fear of people and the ice cream created by the threat of the coronary to all of us and legislates the order, assuming that, because of the circumstances - let me say it - it will go in the change and will not react. As MERA25, we oppose the creation of detention structures that effectively imprison the unfortunate souls that reach our country at risk of their lives, seeking a better tomorrow. We continue to propose as the only sustainable solution the distribution in the inland of refugees and migrants who are to remain for a short or longer period in Greece rather than the continued and growing conversion of certain islands into human warehouses. Unfortunately, with this PPP, the government is aiming at stepping up the already proven deadlock for all involved tactics. Furthermore, Mera25 will never resort to forming the issue of refugees and migrants as a lever for pressure from already exhausted local societies. With the second article, we have the introduction of the second act of legislation on the suspension of applications for asylum - as stated in the explanatory statement - people who have been illegally introduced into the country since the entry into force of this report. These persons shall be returned, without registration, to the country of origin or origin. Already, ladies and gentlemen, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has shown her opposition to this suspension, noting that neither the 1951 Convention on the status of refugees nor the Union's refugee law provides any legal basis for suspending the registration of asylum claims. The Government invokes Article 78 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, voluntarily neglecting that so much the right to apply for asylum is internationally recognised, but also with the principle of non-refoulement also forms part of European law. The New Democracy chooses, by submitting such a proposal, to violate what is defined by Union law, only to satisfy the ears of a portion of its audience with a more far-reaching right-wing view, overlooking something very simple, namely that refugees can come to our country and apply for asylum, only illegally can they do so. They cannot, in other words, take either a tourist visa or have the money to buy a real estate of 250,000 euros to get Golden Visa, because then we would baptize them 'investors' and not refugees! Article 3 provides for the extension of the time limit for the adoption of a decision for three months. As we are negative in itself, we are opposed to the extension of this power. Article 4 amends the VAT Code relating to the exemption from lease agreements concluded by the Greek State in the context of the management of migratory, exceptional and urgent conditions. We believe that this is a perfectly reasonable amendment and we support it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have often been hearing a lot of debates on closed or open borders lately. As a PARTA25, we believe that this debate has no reason to do so, since the dilemma open or closed borders are entirely falsified. We believe that Greece should be open, always border-controlled. At the same time, of course, we must not turn our country into an endless camp or an infinite prison, but put pressure on the rest of the European Union by vetoing them to take their respective share of responsibility. Undoubtedly, the current refugee crisis differs considerably from the mass movements that we have seen in recent years, for example in the 1990s, as the refugees who come today on the one hand do not want to remain in Greece - at least the vast majority of them - and, on the other, work between three poles of a special geopolitical 'European Union, Turkey and - unfortunately - Greek Government'. We consider that the defence of our sovereign rights and humanism towards all, refugees, islands and non-preferential Greeks are interconnected. If we do not have full sovereignty and full sovereignty over our borders, but also the clear will to defend them to the end, we will simply have no tools to impose any humanitarian policy for the benefit of both our non-preferential fellow citizens and the refugees. Our refusal to "work" the already "worked" refugees is an essential component in defending our sovereignty over the territories and waters of Greece. After all the above, as Mer25 we will vote against the bill in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Vellopoulou, the Minister has asked you to speak at the beginning of the meeting, so you'll talk later. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteurs also take the lead. You will be given the opportunity to speak as a whole, after you hear the Minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is facing two important challenges at the same time: the public health crisis, the coronary pandemic, and the migratory crisis, the asymmetrical threat that we have received as a country, crises that are continuing. However, thanks to the unity of the Greek people and the determination of the government, we have so far managed to limit these consequences. It goes without saying that no front is allowed to loosen up. We continue every day with ever-increasing determination. Today, Parliament is called upon to ratify two acts of legislation, directly related to both of these crises. The legislative act of 2 March suspending the right to apply for asylum together with the decision of the CSCE on border armaments faced a coordinated attempt to violate them from the neighbouring country, not from refugees who were individually trying to escape from the risk in the neighbouring country, but from people who supported them in their attempt to illegally enter our country. I would remind you that the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum from the first day of reopening has set two important objectives: firstly, reducing migratory flows and, secondly, reducing the impact of the crisis on local communities. In order to reduce the flow we have proposed four lines of defence: firstly, effective border guarding, evident now to all. In reply to the rapporteur, I say that the structures with increased flows will no longer be filled by the guarding of the borders that our country is now effectively exercising. There is also accelerating asylum procedures and increasing returns, which have tripled. As far as border guarding is concerned, we are to the maximum degree of readiness on both land and sea borders and by all legal means we are protecting the integrity of our country. Secondly, speeding up asylum procedures and increasing returns, which tripled in the first two months of 2020. We have reduced the time of adopting a asylum decision from a hundred and eighty three days in 2019 to only twenty-seven days in the new applications for 2020. Thirdly, we aim to eliminate open structures, replace them with closed and controlled ones and we are already directly starting in four points. The fourth line of defence is the internationalisation of the crisis. Our country is at the forefront of the negotiations both in the European Union and in international organisations. It is necessary for the new European Union's new asylum and immigration regulation to provide for a fair burden-sharing between countries and, secondly, the common agreement between the European Union and Turkey does not lead to congestion on our islands, what the SYRIZA and Mr Musalas have signed today confirmed that it has actually led to the congested islands. We've changed policy. Our country is no longer a clear vine. The preamble to the act of legislation clearly states that it is a sovereign right, but also a constitutional obligation of the Hellenic Republic to safeguard its integrity. By inhibition of asylum, there are reactions both inside and abroad. We recognize them. However, when we took responsibility for the country's administration, as a Ministry, we swore to defend the general interest of the Greek people and this act of legislation serves this very objective. We are proud to be in Evros, at the forefront of defending our country's borders and we will continue to do so with increased determination. And, yes, we're proud of that. The suspension of asylum is a legally correct, clear position in our country that we accept an asymmetrical threat and that those who in this time attempt to violate our country's borders do not come as individual refugees in their efforts to find a better future, are not those who deserve international protection, but are supported by the neighbouring country and are therefore not in danger of it. Regarding the legislative act of 10 February on the centres of the islands, I think it is much easier to explain it today than it would have been if we had brought it to ratification on the first day. We were obliged to shield our islands from the imminent public health crisis of the coronary, but also from the increased rhetoric of the neighbouring country at that time for the use of migratory flows as a geopolitical tool. Some people then said that this was a pretext of the government, that there was supposedly no public health crisis, that there was supposedly no Neighbour's rhetoric for the use of immigrants as a geopolitical tool. I think it is clear today that both are also the same as those who ask us today: 'What measures are you taking to limit traffic on the islands' are very much the same as those who have then reacted to the closure of open structures and to the creation of closed controlled structures. The legislative act came that day to demonstrate the urgency of the need to shield our islands. We need closed structures to deal with both migration flows and adverse crises as a country. People say, "Would you have been able to be ready with the Act of Legislation of 10 February?". The two new centres which were actually set up in Malakasa and Sinti are closed centres and were set up within 15 days of the date of their creation. Of course, there was a periphery of disinformation on the islands. They told the world that the government intends to establish permanently, create minorities on our islands. Today we are talking about there is no one in the Aegean islands who are in our country for over fourteen months. All those who have come in 2016, 2017 and 2018, and with the speeding up of the asylum procedure, those who make a positive decision take it within twenty-seven days. Within a month and a half of a month they've left the islands. Those who take negative leave about six months. Consequently, also with closed centres, which would significantly help the proper functioning of the asylum system, the average stay on the islands would not exceed four to six months. Also, some said that the government wants to build structures for ten, twenty, thirty, fifty, 100 thousand people on each island. They wrote those days on Facebook, picking up islanders. The truth is that even our November planning - and I told the committee about the level of structures is now very great. We do not need structures of five to seven thousand on several Aegean islands anymore because of better border guarding and the acceleration of the asylum procedure. Some say that the centers would stay open. Mr. Kamines said so too. I can tell you clearly that the new centres will lead to the immediate closure of the old centres. I have already called for regional self-government and local government on the islands to set up a working group so that by the end of April we can complete the organisational planning for the closure of structures within 2020. Many have raised the issue of decongestion and I would like to tell you that the government is leading the line of the decongestion of the islands. On the one hand, on our islands today, we have a total of forty-two thousand residents. The new structures are for under twenty thousand. Therefore, over half the islands on the islands - I have clearly said it at every opportunity - in 2020 they will leave the Aegean islands. Where are they going? We tabled an amendment to the effect that SYRIZA did not vote, the Change Movement did not vote to evacuate eleven thousand inland posts taken up by people who are not entitled to accommodation in accordance with international conditions. There are therefore eleven thousand posts with the amendment that we have voted on. Also, by speeding up the process of granting asylum, people are leaving the existing structures and additional posts are being created. At the same time, we have clarified that, in cooperation with local government, where necessary, we will create verbalised further structures. We have already completed and I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, ten thousand movements within the first quarter. At the end of March, for the first time, the inhabitants of the islands will be less than they were at the end of December. So the decongestion of the islands has actually begun. I know the Greek Solution doesn't want that, doesn't want to leave the islands and go inland. But wherever it takes, it can also be done. Mr Koumoutsakos has taken the initiative and we have taken the European Union's approval and funding for five thousand voluntary movements, and we are planning other movements for the second quarter of 2020. The government's plan is to be under twenty thousand, at least within the year. So decongestion is our priority. Of course some say "take them immediately from the islands as we did in 2015". SYRIZA says so. What for? To have eight hundred thousand arrivals in our country again now that the country's internal borders are closed? I remind you that on my island, in Chios, we had increased flows in 2019. Eight thousand people entered Chios, a very large number. In 2015, twenty thousand entered the policy of direct movements. I'll tell you about the cheques, 'cause the cheque issue was raised. First of all, why was a requisition made? There weren't any public land? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is public land. SYRIZA wanted to make Chios the closed center at the Olympus airport in Mastichoria. There are public lands in both Mytilini and Lesvos and Chios and Samos and Kos and Lero. There are public lands and wherever we can, we use them. We have chosen areas that do not cause a problem in local communities. If you want to choose public land closer to urban tissues, that's not our choice. There are also private land. SYRIZA rented Samos. Of course that took too much time. It is not a bad strategy to rent public land, which is available. We want to do it, too. But when a piece of land has forty or fifty owners to make public contracts, you realize it takes months, if not years. We didn't have that long. I will say one last thing and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Two more general questions are raised: Firstly, if there was indeed a public health crisis and a national safety crisis on the islands, and if the legislative act were indeed needed. I say that it seemed from the result, forty days later, that we did have a public health crisis and we did have a national security crisis. The choice of the Government is therefore confirmed as regards the logic of the legislative act. There is a second question of a general nature, if governments have to make public health claims. Mr Tsipras replied yesterday to this question, saying that the requisition from now of all private hospitals is necessary. So SYRIZA says that for emergencies, public health, checks need to be made. Mr Koutsoubas said so: "We again stress the need for a direct order of the private area of beds, clinics, beds and workshops." The JRC therefore agrees with the logic that public health crises must be treated. The legislative act in respect of the pension provides for reasonable compensation. What does it mean to keep people from confusing? It doesn't mean confiscation. It means forced rental. Do we have to pay the reasonable price? SYRIZA's senior official said yesterday he shouldn't. I'm filing all this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr Panagiotis (Notice) Mitarakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we all agree on the need for checks, we all agree that there is a public health crisis, we all agree that there is a problem at the border. So I imagine that the House today unanimously will ratify the legislative act. In conclusion, I should like to point out that all the measures necessary to protect public health have been taken in the hospitality and local communities bordering structures, and so far no situation has arisen in any hosting structure of refugees and migrants across the country. We've separated the new arrivals. Those who have entered our country after 1 March do not go to reception and identification centres, but to special structures where they are controlled medically. We have resolutely restricted traffic by stricter measures for structures than is the case for the general population, because there are limits to how many people have the right to go out only for necessary needs, that is to say to get out and shop and return in limited hours. We are setting up health facilities in cooperation with the European Union in the structures and we are informing the residents of the languages they understand. I think it is clear to the government why these two legislative acts shield the country. I urge the House unanimously today to ratify them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, asked for the floor for a minute and then the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President, and Mr Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, for understanding. I just want to ask two questions. It won't take half a minute. Firstly, in Serres and Malakasa, what capacity are the closed centres? Secondly, in your speech to the committee you said that Turkey about a hundred people who did not take asylum and sent them back does not accept them for reasons of protection of public health there, that is, we say they do not have the opportunity to get asylum, we send them back from where they came and Turkey does not accept them. Please have your answer about what's going on with these people and where they're going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. You know, I have a difficulty, because with most colleagues we've known each other from the past. With Mr Metarakis, we have family relations and I do not forget it, but friendship and truth. To make a few things clear in here, I will begin, ladies and gentlemen, from yesterday's day. I was strongly troubled by the lack of the key words for the 25th of March of all the messages of the parties' Heads of Administration: Ethnicism, revolution against the Turks and the Evangelism of Theotokou. On 25 March we celebrate this and not the coronary and all that we talked about yesterday. The krone virus is an issue which will exist on both 26 and 27 and on 28 and 30 March and will of course not go - and May of course it will not. But when I hear the Prime Minister, the Chief of Officership and all the presidents of the parties not actually mentioned on this day, I am very concerned about how much they understand what it means to the 25th of March. And then the media report on the street and ask our kids what we're celebrating on March 25th when the Chiefs themselves either don't know or they don't want to know, so they can tell. How will our children know? We're going to a very serious matter. I appeal to the New Democracy, but also to those colleagues who are blood donors. There's a horrific problem with blood donation. There's a need for blood from the transfusioners. It has fallen by 25% to 30% blood donation. Those who do blood donation, let's get others to do blood donation. We're gonna need blood on the way. It is for granted, not because of the problem of coronary, but because people are afraid to go to hospitals. The government needs to find a way to have more cellular workshops for blood donation. I say it because it's human. I don't know if you have such people in your environment, but there are a lot of people in need of blood. Now we're going to the rest of the issues. I want to ask a question on the left. The argument put forward by the Left, the False Left - I do not know what it is called, everyone is identified as he wants - is to leave the borders open and to force the European Union to take its share of responsibility. At our imaginary level, the argument is very correct. However, the essence is one: if Europeans do not accept? Should we leave them open? The argument for dismantling these in Europe is an argument which I consider to be reasonable, because the whole of Europe must assume its responsibilities. But Europe does not take care of them. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. We don't do, you know, dialogue in the university amphitheaters, which everyone used to say. Here we must have specific proposals to tell the Members of the government: 'Do what we say is correct'. If you do not have a proposal, do not reproduce an idealism that does not exist because, unfortunately, there is no Europe, unfortunately for us. It does not help us, and it seems from the coronary what has happened, not just in Greece. The saved one is in Europe. That's not what left or left doesn't understand. In Evros at the moment, Greece's invasion is invading Europe's borders and a hundred European police officers have arrived. There normally had to be an army of European countries to protect our borders and our islands. We were alone, we were alone. So let me just say it once again - the ideals at hand. Here we will put forward proposals, as the Greek Solution does. They may be viewed by you as unapplied, considered that it is not right, to consider that you have ideologically disagreement. I understand that. What do we say, Minister? Real structures with benefits to illegal immigrants in uninhabited islands. That's what we're saying. Whoever likes it. It's much better the structure we tell you on the uninhabited island than Siniki. I went to the area, Mr. Muzala. It's terrible. Trust me. It's on a tent, so we know what we're talking about. And Moria or anywhere. So what do we say? Normal human structures in guaranteed areas, so that there are no more problems, because it is a health bomb. It seems a little strange to me that Germany today announced eighteen or twenty Corono cases to illegal immigrants. Our people have nothing? Don't they get anything? "TEZA" are you spraying them? Christ and God bless you! Do you want to convince me that there is not a single case in Moria, where the conditions in the mud grow in people and children? Where do you say that? Whether you lie to us consciously or don't know what's going on with you. It can't be. Something's wrong. Also, what surprises me is this fatalistic attitude of the New Democracy with the children in London. We have two hundred people in London. The Prime Minister told me, because yesterday I spoke to him, I called him, and I told him that in London there were two hundred people. He said: "Listen to see" - and he's right to a degree - "I can't take the coronary problem to Greece because I don't know if they've done a test." 'Good' - I say - 'transfer them to an uninhabited area, to a hotel, to a closed space and test them'. Those kids are still in London. If they were his or our children, that's what we'd say about the two of us in London? And let me think he's thinking about public health. The illegal immigrants you take as luggage from Lero, Samos, Kos and transport without medical control and disperse them throughout Greece, what is it? Since they don't have a test either. Does the London test of Greeks bother you that you are not doing or that you do not perform a test on those who are transporting to the whole continent of Greece? That's what's bothering us, this racism against the Greeks. It's racism against the Greek. You're making mistakes. Minister, because you say it very well, this morning in a mediator called a lady. I have it and it's at your disposal. He spoke at "FOCUS 103.6" Thessaloniki, at a radio station. You've spoken, Mr. Muzala, and you at this radio station. So listen to what this lady said: 'I am a resident of Bajori'. Do you know Bajori, Minister? It's an area that has a similar camp, SYRIZA's done it. "I can't even go to my husband's memory. We're locked in our homes. They're slapping 'cause they come out and do whatever they want. Do they want to leave and stay alone? Did they ask us if we want them?' He claimed he's calling the police and he's not responding. 'They must be ashamed' - it says - 'all politicians'. Here is the "sucking-out". 'To take them home.' All politicians, then, are ashamed of why New Democracy doesn't understand that you don't put people next to the village who do without any control. They're sullacring. Don't tell me you're controlling them. And I'll say it differently. One comes out of the closed structure you're going to do, Mr. Mitarakis, per 100 or every ten to ten, I'll tell you. If he doesn't come back in three hours, what will be the penalty you give him? He's never gonna come out again? What's the sentence? You gonna shoot him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u126	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u127	What are you talking about, Mr. Metarakis? Who are you mocking in here? What sentence now? Whatever they want to do, wherever they want to go. I gave you an example of Bajori. I'm telling you, no, because I'm in the mood to oppose you. I'm the last person I could be a racist because I'm a son of immigrants. I grew up in Germany, went to school in Germany, felt racism in my skin as an immigrant. My father was a miner and he was treated like German friends, your friends, not our friends. They were treating my father like a coal mine thing. I know what racism means. However, it is another thing to get to the point of leaving anyone who is now coming, giving him benefits and the Greeks being on the sidelines. That's racism. It's the second one. I would like to say to you very much, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very difficult time. He wants measures and seriousness. Tweet such as this, 'When I return...', your MEP - I will put it in the Minutes - by paraphrasing the saying of Karaiskakis, at this point in time is the least unacceptable. He is your MEP, Mr. Kouloglu. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I expect SYRIZA to condemn this phrase. There's a tweet. Take it if you want. That's where I printed it. There's also what Mr. Katsochas says, a well-known journalist you put him in ERT. He did a show and he goes out and says to them: "When I get back, I'll do this to you." Christ and God bless you! Pick them up. This is happening at a critical moment. Then, if you want, like the other gentleman who has taken half of Athens, Mr. Tatsopoulos, former MP here, you do the same, if you can. Then. This is not the case and, above all, I cannot hear any symbols in social media saying that "we will be accounted for afterwards". In the mountains are we going to do the third rebellion? We've got a situation. We must save Greece, our children. Pick them up. You're not 3%. You're 28%, 30%, 32%, I don't know how much you are. You may be ruling Greece again. I don't know what the people will decide. He can vote again. But, anyway, pick them up. These things can't be done. On the other hand, I will tell you, Mr Muzala, and you personally. I've been watching you everywhere. In the "CONTRA" you said that illegal centers, structures are barbaric and closed. You said that in an interview. On 18-10-2019 in "SKAI" you said you were in favour of closed centers. What do you suggest? In the "KONTRA" you said on a television show - there is the video, it was uploaded by the "Truth Group", I think - that the closed centers are illegal and barbaric. You said that. There's your video. You might have made a mistake then. On 18-10-2019 in "SKAI" you are in favour of closed centers. I want to hear SYRIZA what he wants. We want a proposal that you and you have the right to disagree. For God's sake! We have a democracy. But I would like to hear what the SYRIZA proposal is or what the JRC proposal is. However, not whether or not Europe opens the borders. Oh, no. Forget that. He's not opening them. We forget that. In here not to tell the world nonsense or wardrobes. Europe does not exist. She won't accept any more. That's it. So, what do we do now? If she opened her borders, clearly becoming a transit, go wherever they want. I'm fine with it. To go wherever they want. But they don't want them. I want a proposal to hear from SYRIZA. I don't hear a proposal and it bothers me. On the other hand, it is worth wondering how the New Democracy - and I will say it with a lot of sympathy - has not realised that it is now self-determination. It comes out to the Prime Minister of the country on 19 March 2020 and says that an extra salary of EUR 800 is being extended to those employed in businesses, which are still operating with a reduction in turnover, but also to all free professionals and self-employed. On the 20th day of the month, the next day, the Minister comes out and disproves it. It's the Prime Minister's tweet. Let's go down. When the Prime Minister commits the next day, the Minister, Bruts, self-determination - to free professionals I am now referring to - there is a problem with your plan. That cannot be said today by the Prime Minister, and tomorrow the other person may disprove it. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, I wonder what the Prime Minister of the country was doing and they were already moving the brochures we would sign to get permission. Before the Prime Minister spoke, an hour ago, I had come to my Tweeter the trafficking booklet to transfer the world. How serious is it for a government before the Prime Minister talks about these papers and documents of the Greek State? Tell me what government you are. This took place an hour before the Prime Minister's letter. So I'm trying to tell you that you're sloppy, you're really sloppy. And let this conflict with Mr. Chiodra between SYRIZA and the New Democracy stop. Some defend Chiodra, others are against Chiodra. The country's problem isn't Chiodra. I read a lot of Facebook and I do Tweeter etc. I mean, every Chiodra will do his job and go away. We'll stay here to fight the problem. It can be changed tomorrow morning. They use him well or badly, doing his job well or badly, he'll show up along the way. But let us stop this false dispute between SYRIZA and the New Democracy on minor issues and see the major ones. And the major ones are that I do not hear proposals from the other parties on the issue of illegal immigrants. Let's go to Evros, ladies and gentlemen. I was reading HURIET this morning. Erdogan decided to leave thirty thousand criminals free. Last night he decided, and it was announced today. Thirty thousand criminals. It reminds me of Albania a little. We're not talking now about bad guys. They're criminals. It's about thirty thousand. Be sure he doesn't defy them for his country. Be prepared for other kinds of things in this course. To be prepared for many things we couldn't even imagine. That's why he says we need to shield our borders really, Mr. Mitarakis, after they come in every day. What are you saying to me now,'suffer your borders'? This is where Mr. Stefanis went to Imia and the Turks kicked him now. And I don't want to say it here right now, because it's a parliament. They harassed him and kicked him out. He went to Kallimnos. It's things you're hiding, because you're communicating, you're checking all channels. All the channels say: 'Have New Democracy!'. There's no SYRIZA. He's throwing a statement at him. There's no CCT, just a little reporter. Well, we don't exist anyway, but it doesn't matter. They say "Have New Democracy!" And what a big party it is, what a big government it is, what a huge government you are, what a great leader the Prime Minister is! Well, I believe that now, too. I say, "Not all of them can be wrong and I am right. Something's wrong." I mean, he's a huge leader! That is not how governance is. This is a state-of-the-art conception. And we go to fairy tales the rest. Fairy tale: Piat! Where is it, guys, the American, your friend? You've taken pictures of the whole New Democracy there with Piat, the Ambassador. Where's the help of the Americans to come and help us? Where are the American investment dollars and all those little fairy tales you told us with Piat that he was gonna bring us investments? SYRIZA said the same thing. When Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Pappas went to America, they said the Americans would bring us investments. Understood. We're all being fucked. We've been taken over that we're bosoms that say in my village and they do whatever they want. No investment! Who helped Europe, though? The bad China and the bad Russia have helped Italy. Germany closed the border, broke it. And I don't argue with any of you. You're right. It is your right and your choice. Your strategic choice is America. Your right, we won't oppose this. However, I want there to be relations 'win-win' between Greece to gain something, to win. If we don't win, there's no salvation. Germany: Germany has just seen the hardships in its economy - for 30 billion euros it has put us in our memoranda - is putting EUR 850 billion on the market, but not on the European Union, but on its side. As for the Eurobond, only eight, nine countries want it from what I learn. The rest of you make the hug. They don't speak, ladies and gentlemen. Only the Prime Minister - and to his credit - is running along with the others to take off the Eurobond. That's a good choice! The other governments, why don't they talk? Let me tell you: 'Cause they're satellites from the Germans and they don't want the Germans to squeeze them. Understood: German Europe must end! It's over! This is where German medical supplies and Italians are blocking! He who saves himself is saved! We're alone! And the worse you don't get it right now. You have a distorted perception of the economy. The Greek economy is based on 80% service provision. Only 20% is the industry. When the coronary crisis passes, ladies and gentlemen, it will be the ones that will recur. They will produce industrial products for export, industrial products for consumption. What are we going to produce? Are we going to produce bank seats at hotels? What are we going to produce? You tell me. Nothing! So, we're gonna have trouble recovering again. It's important to understand what economic recovery means. So change the question of service provision, make industrial model through the primary sector, fourth and fifth generations. And by closing, I would like to quote a series of mistakes made by the New Democracy in relation to the coronary. I'm going to stay on the important issue of me that many people get past here. We said it from the first moment: "Block this story, not to be released for fifteen days!" One of them walks around with his dog, the other with his kitten. And it helps not circulate today, Minister, the weather. If the weather was good, it would take a million and two million and three million and five million policemen to gather the world from the streets. If you do not take steps quickly, on 20 April, which will be the top of the problem, we will do a bad account. And I don't wish it. Get away from us that wish! Make right calculations. Because the measures you make in the form of instalments are being made. Make Greek Mithridatis. You give him a dosage of poison. "Take one today, take one tomorrow." The Minister must order. Let Adonis go out to the Ministry. Get the other minister out. To be back in the morning. They're on every channel of ministers. You open one channel and the other, and it's all the ministers. They come out and say the same thing. And every two days, new proposals are being announced. We tabled proposals to the Prime Minister. Act them! You can't keep the long-term unemployed out of them! Do you know what "long-term unemployed" means? There's no work! And you only have the unemployed with the allowance. Put them in there too! There are other proposals. You've got the lawyers out. As far as the lawyers are concerned, they closed courts. Courts don't work! I tell you things that apply and are real. Do you live out of reality? When we say 'horizontal measures' - and the SYRIZA is right here and his 'bravo' - we have said so too - we mean horizontal measures. If you don't take horizontal measures for all classes, for all professions, for all grades, there's gonna be a problem along the way. And there's also the subject with the evidence: it can't collect 30% of its revenues, man with the receipts or the cards, since the market doesn't work. Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u128	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u129	And I close with this: To understand how naive you are, you went a week ago and, Minister, you closed down the businesses that sell wood. So, they close, because when he spends a period of date, business stops selling wood. "Make an extension," I told the Minister. He still didn't. That is, in Northern Greece, making a cold, there's a need for wood. I mean, they're just things you don't do. Of course, the worst of all - and I'm closing here - I'm going to tell you quite simply: we may have 200 euros, 300 euros, to run a test, to go touch them with the businessman. And we're good. The poor man who has no 200 euros, 300 euros to go for a test, should not be helped by the state to be quiet that his child, his wife, his relatives, his friends are not in danger and is not a mobile bomb? Friends and friends - Mr President, thank you very much - ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we have entered here to make proposals to you. We're going to criticize you. But we will also have proposals, Minister. We may disagree on that and you may have another perception, Ministers. We're making suggestions. You'll accept them at the end. You'll take them to the inhabited islands, or they'll come all the time. You can't secure the Aegean on your own. It can't be done. You have a phobia in the word "law" and "class" in the country. We are in favour of the law and order and of the slogan: "First Greece, first the Greeks and then all the others!" Do the thing and we're with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u130	The rapporteurs and speakers have finished and we are now entering Parliament's representatives. However, Mr President, I should like to say this: we must all admit that the Greeks, our compatriots, have shown enviable discipline in the measures we have taken, mutatis mutandis, which is recognised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u131	And good they did!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u132	Okay, now it's not on the substance. And with regard to a number of issues that we hear from both political persons and journalists, they are based on a wrong condition. But it is not today to talk about it. If that is not the case, it will not be possible. We cannot say things that are based on a wrong condition. I'm not talking to you. I say it in general. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Claus Gregoriadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of Mera25, as our party was founded on March 26, 2018, two years immediately before today. Today, then, a little while ago, our party's secretary, Mera25, Yiannis Varoufakis, announced that the significant amount of money that we would have for our conference, but also the largest possible proportion of the state grant that we are given as a party, we will make available it to support solidarity actions and take initiatives focused on social groups, which within this tragic juncture are completely outside of every state framework of prevention, protection and assistance. At the same time, Mera25 asks the state to take the same three small steps of solidarity that can and - believe me - must take place today. First, immediately, the provision of debit cards to three hundred thousand vulnerable people or families who will not receive 800 euros because they are unpaid, self-employed, homeless, etc. Each card from them should have a EUR 300 credit per month for at least six months. This will be an important support for our defenceless fellow humans who are now left out of every net of state protection. Secondly, lifting immediately the 'HRAKLE', i.e. our red loans to predators and, of course, immediately abolishing all auctions. Thirdly, the abolition - of course, one would say - of the advance tax for the current year. It is funny to even speak of a payment in 2020 of 95% of the 2019 profits tax - calculated rather, I mean on the basis of 2019 profits - which, quite simply, in 2020, will simply not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of the pandemic of COVID -19 known to all of us and as a coronary, a virus, which - let me say - has already scanned all the borders that people have standing on this earth today, as if we were guided by an invisible prank of history, we are being called upon to ratify two acts of legislation that concern borders. I am not going to comment on the two acts of legislation here, as it has done so - quite rightly - our special rapporteur, Mrs Fotini Bakada. I will simply say to you that instead of these deadlocked legislative acts as a PART25 we are proposing, firstly, safeguarding the right to asylum, a right which in no civilised country can ever be suspended. Secondly, we are proposing the exercise of the maximum pressure, but more than that if necessary, putting veto on everything against Brussels until we force them - and you can be sure that in this way we will force them - to accept refugees and divide them equally, proportionately and democratically in all the Member States of our European Union. We dream of an open Greece with controlled borders, of course, but a Greece, which will never turn into a huge concentration camp of the European Union. We dream of a Greece that the "shoulder" will never become - apologise for the expression - of Europe, which "shoulders" has been hired to violate the principles of European solidarity and international law, so that the governments of Austria, Germany, Hungary, Croatia, etc. All are left-wing governments, as you would notice. In conclusion, you will allow me to say a few words on the subject with which I started my speech, the enormous threat that, together with the rest of the planet, is facing our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are pleased to be able for the first time to acknowledge you that as a government in time you recognised the size of the problem and in time you have taken measures, which were, in fact, in the very right direction. Good for you! With the exception of, of course, the characteristic frugality you have shown, regarding the ban on mass religious ceremonies. What can we do, though? No one's perfect. That's why we're getting past it. What we cannot pass under any circumstances, however, is that today, just one month after the first coronary case in our home country, our health system remains completely immune to doctors, health personnel and consumable means of protection for these people. We can in no way pass on the fact that it sounds like a bad joke, that you are asking to hire in the National Health System just two thousand people with few, indeed, to be doctors. And them, like the others - I mean nurses and the rest of the staff - you want to hire them on a fixed-time contract. You know what you say to these people, ladies and gentlemen? You say to them: "Remember that years we have rejected all your applications for permanent recruitment to the National Health System, although you were fulfilling all the conditions, and even though we were all in need of this system, did Troika not leave us? Well, now that we're losing fellow humans, now that the universe's falling apart around us, this same Troika continues not to let us and we're still listening to it. So we ask you today, our doctors and our nurses and, in fact, without any shame, to come and put your life at immediate risk, unravel you and if you manage to survive this risk and while in the meantime - by transport - we will have died in fatigue, when with good reason this adventure ends, or do at most in no time later, we will send you back to your homes and most of you in your old acquaintance, unemployment." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President, in a moment. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what amazement is that the officials of all governments do not want or - even worse - can't even see and understand? Do you know what it is? It is that overwhelmingly more than our doctors and nurses honor the Hippocrates' oath they took. Therefore, despite the brutal attitude of our state toward them all the time they have been waiting for, but also for the last time, which we have been begging them without even intending to perpetuate them, they will again make our national surprise and respond - a god knows why - by giving this presence and at the same time proving that all the governments responsible, who have decided so long for their future, whether these people will have work or are unemployed after so many years of study they have done, all those responsible do not even have the space to look at them in the eye. So you can make sure that you get serious, understand the historical size of the circumstances and immediately hire six thousand doctors and other nurses last night, and not always, not to thank them for their offer, not in return, but simply because we now have an absolute need for them and we are missing them. And after you hire them, ensure them immediately and completely, buying last night, all the consumable protections and equipment they need. It is high time, ladies and gentlemen of the Greek Parliament, that all of us finally look into the eyes in here and forward to the spectacle of the unfair loss of our fellow people to write Troika in our old shoes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u134	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos, I will give the floor for two minutes to the Minister for Development and Investment to develop the amendment. We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u135	You're interested, Mr. Colleague, because you might want to sit down. We have tabled an amendment which is of the following urgency and is being held for the following reason: as you all know, there is a shortage of antiseptics, antiseptic scarves, etc. supermarkets and the market in general. The total production capacity of the existing factories now covers around daily demand, although we first put three per customer and then two per customer. With two, however, per customer, daily consumption far exceeds the capacity of production we have in Greece, which was before the crisis of less than two hundred thousand per day and now has increased, with all the measures we have taken and the urgent import of ethyl alcohol, to about five hundred thousand. In order to increase production and meet demand, we are therefore tabling this amendment, which does this: today, to produce antiseptics, an industry takes two types of licences. The first is the production licence and the second is the disposal licence. Both licenses are given by the EOF. The time limit for issuing the production licence by the IFO is now about a year and a half. Therefore, it does not cover the urgency of this period. In order to speed it up, therefore, we have done this, which I stress: only for companies which have already been authorised to produce pharmaceutical or cosmetic products, i.e. factories which are already in operation, which are already known by the EOF, and which have been controlled by the EOF, but which have not so far been authorized to produce antiseptics, but which have been authorized to produce medicinal products or which have been authorised to produce cosmetics, for them alone, we are automatically giving them the authorisation to produce them so that they can convert their production from cosmetics and other medicines into antiseptics production. The EEO shall authorise the disposal by the activation of Article 55 of the EEO and its Rules of Procedure in accordance with European Directive 2012/528. In other words, it controls the products produced in its chemistry, checks that these products are indeed antiseptic in the manner laid down in its legislation and gives the authorisation to place the product on the market. In this way, we can even get to three hundred more produced products within the next week, because we already have large and well-known cosmetic companies - I do not want to mention them in this House so that I do not want to do any kind of advertising, but, if you like, I would be happy to say to you in private, we are talking about companies very well known to all of us, which would not be at risk of making 'appropriate', which will, in any case, be controlled by the EOF on the disposal of their products - they will immediately, tomorrow, be allowed to produce antiseptic products. I would like to say here for the sake of the proper functioning of the market that we have predicted that these products that will be produced are prohibited from being exported. It is only for domestic consumption and therefore for the Greek public to be able to serve. Also, companies making use of this law should, at the same time, normally make an application for a normal production licence, as all other companies have done, so that, after the end of the urgency, they can only be produced if they have obtained the normal licence, with the current procedures, just as everyone else has taken it. In order to avoid showing that we want to favour in the course of someone who took the license easily, against someone else who took the license more difficult. So companies already licensed to produce medicines and cosmetics from the EOF will automatically be able to obtain an antiseptic production license. This authorisation will apply as long as this crisis is in force. In order to continue to produce antiseptics, they will have to obtain a production licence in accordance with the normal procedure laid down so far by the legislation and the EOF will normally monitor, as we do up until now, the placing on the market of the product, so that it is actually what we are talking about and not something else. I would ask for the cross-party support of this amendment, because obviously you all understand that there is a real problem on the market and that it is not some other matter. If you have any questions, I will be happy to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u136	On this point, Minister, in view of the fact that parliamentary representatives might want to come back at some point, can you tell us if you accept the amendment? The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Mitarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, the amendment is accepted under a general number 245 and a special number 4. The title of the draft law is also added to the term ‘and other provisions’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u138	Are you not accepting any of these amendments from the parliamentary amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u139	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u140	Good. Only the one you said. Mr. Villardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u141	The antiseptic amendment seems good, positive. I will of course read it better, but I think we should also make provision for artificial breathing machines, so that we do not follow the facts, but take the lead. There too, we have industries which may produce them. Maybe from now on...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u142	It's not my responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u143	I'm not talking about you, I'm talking more generally. Perhaps now we should make the prediction. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with the substance of the legislative act, since my colleague, Mr Mylonis, has analysed the legislative act in general, we would firstly say that it is not possible to agree with provisions that transform the illegal and violent settlement of our islands into a legitimate hybrid immigration war which Turkey has declared to us. Nor by abolishing the free economy, by ordering immovable property, especially on the grounds of the lack of grounds for avoiding risks to public policy and health. We do not believe in such communist provisions and we are obviously not going to vote on them. Especially now, in relation to the second article, we would like to ask: What is the point of suspending asylum applications for a month, when even government ministers are referring to a massive invasion? Why do we not adopt the judgment of the Special Court of Human Rights for Spain, according to which asylum seekers who enter the country are not allowed to apply for asylum, and also Article 78(3) of the Maastricht Treaty, who declares the country in an emergency until the massive influx has ceased? Why, then, even the young people entering the mainland are being transferred, without submitting a request and without the possibility of re-promoting on the basis of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey? There is a lot of questions, and we do not understand why Greece should bear such a cost, which we ourselves have calculated at around EUR 62 million on the basis of the current number of immigrants, the planning and announcements of the government, while the EUR 203 million is on the basis of the available areas. Accordingly, the cost of operating annually has been calculated on our own at 55 million and 200 million respectively, as we will testify in the Minutes along with his notes, assumptions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In this regard, we wonder, as usual, why the General Accounting Office of the State has not been mentioned as such, since there have been such facilities in the past, which unfortunately have been many irregularities, such as in the case of Amygdaleza, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. In any case, there are the numbers and one based on them can make corresponding calculations. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who really will pay all these costs, especially at a time when Greece is affected by the coronary epidemic, which will cost her huge sums? Will the budget not collapse, in which the migration cost for 2020 is only projected at 138 million euros, when in 2019 it was EUR 142 million? However, if we add to it the cost of policing and wire making to Evros. This is Mr Muzalas, if I remember correctly, with a statement he had told him that the wires in Evros are not suitable, it is not right. I remember reading what you said in December 2019 in "KATHMERINI" that the wires will not help at all. But it doesn't matter. Finally, does it not concern us that asylum applications in Greece in 2019 amounted to seventy-four thousand four hundred eighty-two, while in Europe at a total of twenty-five thousand four hundred seventy-two? 60%, i.e. it was only for our country with migratory flows to continue unstoppable. More generally now, in the Greek economy it is impossible to predict when the whole planet is sailing in uncharted waters, in panic conditions, especially when one is not aware of the period of the health crisis and the "closure" of the countries, and it has preceded a huge stock market rigour, but that has not corrected any problem, at least not the two fundamentals, the unbalanced redistribution of incomes and the mountains of debt accumulated, among other things, as a result of the non-conventional policy of central banks after 2008. Judging, of course, by the assessments of epidemiologists, the planet will return to normality at the end of 2021 in terms of health, while it will appear from developments in China that the locking of its economy lasted for about two months. But, on the one hand, we do not know whether the virus reappears, on the other hand in Europe, the situation is quite different, with different health systems, with other starting points, with incomplete infrastructure in many countries and so on. However, given that Greece depends very much on tourism, where it comes from 18.1 billion directly and about twice as much indirectly, as well as shipping, which is also being pushed, with 17.3% directly, by the services that produce more than 80% of GDP, while both foreign and domestic investments, which are already low, will be delayed, with our exports also falling, then the recession will probably be even greater than 10%, despite the lower forecasts we hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u144	Please be brief because your Chief has also spoken. You normally deserve half a year, but the world has not been lost for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u145	I shall be brief, Mr President. But assuming hopefully that the recession will only be shaped at 5.3%, then our GDP will be reduced to around EUR 178 billion. So, with our deficit at just 1.3%, our GDP debt will reach 201%, without the extra cost of migration, defence, health, etc. Under these conditions, then, even rely on the European Union, without the imposition of new memoranda, which would perhaps be the best case, who really would invest in Greece, in a country with damaged productive tissue, with an incorrect economic model, which only two insecure sectors, tourism and shipping, produce directly and indirectly almost 40% of GDP, with 201% public debt, with high debt banks and a red private debt? Apparently no one. Should we not therefore make the money available to reduce VAT by at least 50% in the first-needed species, so that consumption does not collapse and that poor households can survive? Should the aid package of our economy not be increased, since 2.5% announced at least 5%, when Germany announced 20%? Should we not also stop auctioning first home, since people who are pushing to stay home must have a home to comply? The production of respiratory appliances, as I said before, should not be started when there are cheap plans ready, while there could be employment in ELVO? The public corporations privatisation program, such as the PPC, the ELPE or the DEDDIE, is not right to stop? Finally, investment in RES, which will no longer have value after developments in the oil sector, should they not stop? So has the withdrawal from lignite, since the cost of emissions has been significantly reduced? Do we really have alternative ways of dealing with pandemic like Serbia? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, should the Public Investment Programme not be increased and the domestic production of the primary sector should be supported, given that we are faced with a crisis of supply in addition to this demand or even worse with a great chance of Greece moving to stagnation, to one of the most serious economic diseases? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 3126/2003, "Priminal Responsibility of Ministers", as in force, on 20-3-2020: Criminal case against the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Mavroudi (Maci) Vorides. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. The government as a thief legislates. What was the decision of the Conference of Presidents? The decision was to discuss the legal acts relating to the coronary pandemic this week. What's here to talk about? The legislative acts relating to migration/refugee, in fact, two legislative acts which have met the strong reaction of those concerned, have been discussed here. Isn't that a challenge? Sure. It is a challenge, because with fast track procedures the government is attempting, by exploiting the situation created by pandemic conditions, to implement an extremely anti-popular policy. What do these two MDGs contain? The first concerns the demands of countries on the islands for the creation of closed hospitality centres, i.e. prisons and the second concerns the suspension of asylum. Both legislative acts are deeply reactionary and anti-grassy. The Minister, trying to have a good time in his speech, also made a genius. He said: "But why does the JRC react? Since it is in favour of the cheques, after asking for private clinics, why does it not accept these cheques?’ Do you know what you remind me, Minister, of all respect and personal sympathy? What we read in the books of Logics when we went to school. "The policeman is an instrument. Bouzouki is an instrument. Therefore, the policeman is a bud.’ And we say this because, of course, the requirements that the government promotes on the islands had met with the strong reaction of the islanders. Despite the unprecedented wave of violence and repression by the MATs, not only did these reactions come true, but they were even more gigantic. What is the government's survival with these creations of closed centres on the islands? Just to implement the bankrupt, reactionary and inhumane agreement signed by the European Union with Turkey over the SYRIZA government. That's what you're doing. I mean, you're turning the islands into prisons and our country as a whole. As we speak of the coronary pandemic and the obligation not to confuse too many in the same areas, can you tell us, Minister, about the health bombs, which were before the pandemic, in the various hot spots on the islands, which now have even greater dimensions because of the pandemic, what measures is the government taking to decongested them? Is it not now imperative to immediately dismantle the islands from immigrants and refugees and to transfer them to areas where the standards of hygiene, the protection of public health and the protection of this world are respected by the coronary pandemic? The government is, of course, deaf in all of this, because it wants to implement its barbaric, anti-immigration policy. And we say that, because the second act of legislation is right there. What's the government doing? It suspends the granting of asylum for a month, with the possibility of being extended - it is not possible - rather than doing the opposite - to speed up the granting of asylum, which means the recruitment of staff necessary for asylum services, with permanent employment relationships, so that these procedures can be carried out quickly. We are talking about all this because the government insists on implementing a deeply anti-immigration policy. We call it clearly, the enemy of the people are not refugees and immigrants, they are the enemies of the people, who have turned all of them into victims, victims of imperialist interventions, victims of wars, victims of economic sovereignty and exploitation. These must be the people's target. However, the government is still more and more actively involved in dangerous, aggressive planning, as these result from the conventions it has with NATO and the European Union. In fact, today, the 'RIZOPASTI' reveals a document that the zeta government has announced, in order to be able to send a mission to Mali, a war area, political personnel on the basis of a decision in the European Union. And all this at a time when Turkey is escalating aggression. Yesterday, on 25 March, he submitted to the UN the coordinates for the maritime zones in our region on the basis of the unacceptable agreement signed by the Government of Turkey with the Syrian Government, dismantled in substance by the attitude of the other allies in Greece, when Turkey has entered a bazaar in order to be able to keep it in the western alliance. And while all of this marks the need for immediately declaring the imperialist designs of our country, the government is becoming more and more deeply involved in these imperialist designs. The second issue we would like to raise here is the following. The government said the Minister was moving on to a private sector of MEPs. In fact, the ministerial decision was published, where out of EUR 800 per day costs EUR 1,600. It doubles the cost of the order, as the government calls it. Except that's not a requisition. This is what he tells private health speculators "Come and milk the state budget even further, a small gift we give you is 30 million". And it makes this 30 million-dollar gift - why so much do you say it will be the cost - when there are beds in the public health system, in the ICUs, which are still closed, why has the necessary medical and nursing staff not been hired, when the reports on the speculation bay are being produced by private clinical authorities with the great coronary tests, which are, of course, being sent? They're sending them to Pasteur and Athens Medical, to get the results, because they don't have diagnostic laboratories, charging them even more. And yet, they are speculating enormously, with prices starting from 250 euros to 350 euros for these tests against the coronary. All of this shows two yards and two weights. On the one hand, the situation in the public health system is deteriorating, precisely because you do not hire staff, precisely because you do not shield medical and nursing personnel with the necessary tools, so that they can fight against the coronary, which the government should confiscate and provide free of charge to the whole world, and at the same time private investors in the health sector are increasing their profits from the process. The same logic of the two standards exists in other areas. At a time when the government says it protects and wants to protect work with legislative acts, the opposite does. Entrepreneurs, investors, industrialists and major traders make conditions even more misuse of workers. In fact, the government itself gives the right to reduce by 50% their earnings by rotating two weeks a month, and not for the duration of the coronary, but for six months and we will see it - Mr Brutsis said today - whether it is necessary and more in line with the impact on the economy and how things will develop. What protection measures do workers have in large businesses and supermarkets in dealing with the coronary? The government today proposes an amendment that says that a number of companies active in the same sector can produce antiseptics before they get permission. Someone's gonna say it's positive, of course. But be careful. What's the government doing? He doesn't confiscate this production, to say that I keep it so that I can make it available for free to those in need. And every day we observe in the reporting worlds that are in these categories that have trouble trying to go to the supermarket to find. And they often do not find them because they do not exist, because the daily stocks are exhausted. We say it clearly, through this process, in the rapprochement - as we say in our village - the wolf is glad and those who rub their hands are the capitalists, they are the major investors, who will find the opportunity through this process with the support of, of course, government policy and government choices to shape the next day for the labour market, which will be even more painful for workers. Of course, there are still all the Memorandum Laws that marked the labour market, the Memorandum Laws that both the New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA have transformed the labour market into a jungle. However, what we will observe after the passage of the coronary will go beyond any reality. So on this basis we are saying it clearly. You're deeply laughed if you think the working class will make you the favor of bend your head. It will remain possible in this battle and will remain strong because it is precisely because the lives and rights of workers must not be quarantine and all these plans that you are doing sooner or later will be answered by the workers themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u148	Minister Mitarakis has asked for the floor for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u149	I would like to give two very brief answers to the parliamentary representatives. First of all, I would like to say to Mr Karathanasopoulos that you reminded me of this intelligence we were talking about in our school years, but we do not fundamentally disagree that the order is a necessary tool for public health and public safety purposes. I will wait with great interest for Mr Tsipras to hear from Mr Tsipras as well, if he agrees with the concept of order for reasons of public health and public security. We disagree on the issue of reasonable compensation, and I would like to stress that the act of legislative content of 10 February provides for reasonable compensation for the land we will use on the islands, land that has, as a rule, been selected is not productive. Also, I owe two answers to Mr. Loverdos. Firstly, you asked me what the capacity in Malakasa and Serres is. In Serres the capacity is nine hundred places, in Malakasa it is a thousand two hundred. In Malakasa, what we want to do in April is to transform the existing open structure which already operates in the first closed inland structure - a pilot project - and to reduce the space in the open structure of Malakasa and through the programme of exiting the structures of those who have already received international protection. On this subject - and I am closing with this, Mr President - the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey, as the Prime Minister has said, is not actually the case at this time. Turkey invokes public health issues and we had tried to return sixty days ago, which had received a definitive answer on non-right to international protection, and Turkey has stopped the implementation of the programme because of a coronary. From there on, it is our first national priority to have a new grid of agreement with Turkey to stop and contribute more decisively to reducing flows. However, the big question is any such agreement cannot repeat the mistakes of SYRIZA, it cannot lead our islands to become a storeroom of souls.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor for half a minute for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u151	I do not know whether the Minister understands or does not want to understand, but here we will not play 'Where the priest is, here a priest, there a priest'. We talked clearly. There is, of course, a huge public health issue on the islands. How do we deal with it? Not through his perpetuation, through the creation of closed hospitality centres, i.e. prisons, to turn the islands into prisons of human souls, but through the immediate decapitation of the islands by refugees and immigrants, that is to say, their transfer immediately and the acceleration of asylum procedures and travel documents so that they can go to their country of destination. That's what we say, Minister. You say another thing, completely different from what the JRC says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u152	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many years ago for yesterday's national festivities and with the opportunity to make a reference to Turkey's lasting now and permanent practice in relation to what it has attempted to do at our land borders in Evros. I have pointed out that this is not a fact that has passed and left, but a practice with lasting and permanent data, and that is verified. And in the last few days, apart from the issue of immigrants and asymmetric threats from Turkey, we have also seen air breaches in our territorial waters. And it is time for the government to think that we need a reorientation of our policy towards Turkey, with initiatives that concern not only the European and international property - that is what it has made moves - but that concern our own foreign policy in relation to Turkey, where a change of strategy is now needed. As I refer to these issues, and I also referred to the national festivities, I should like to make a reference to the excellent speech by the President of the Republic yesterday in his speech. I want to do this for the second time - but for the first time in the House - a report on the new patriotism of Greek women and Greeks and I want to express my disagreement with this condition, as I have done repeatedly in the past on the occasion of the positions of other Members, of the parties' leaders and last of all my colleague - who have made this observation - Yiannis Manniatis, who wrote a book on modern patriotism. My view is that there is neither modern, nor old patriotism, nor new, nor anything else. There's patriotism that either you're a patriot or you're not a patriot. And I understand the anxiety and the need for many to draw a dividing line between patriotism and nationalism - I understand it and I share it - but these conditions are completely unfavourable. For rhetorical reasons I would like to mention Nikos Kazantzakis and what he says about patriotism in his "Accession" and ask myself. Does Nikos Kazantzakis meet the criteria of new patriotism or does he not respond? I say this rhetoric, I repeat, to try to prove that these new, old, modern or non-patriotic arguments are not correct. On pandemic issues. Evros, Greek Turkish: crisis. Pandemic: crisis. Economy: crisis. Three. In the face of the economic crisis, I make a reference without pillaging, but specifically concerning lawyers. Mr President-in-Office, you have predicted that those persons who need the financial support will be included in them, but then you ruled out them. We are also asking a question on this. I can understand - I have said this from Step one more time - the exclusion of lawyers who have a recompense. I couldn't agree more. I can understand the exclusion of lawyers who have declared 2019 and the previous years of major income. I couldn't agree more. I cannot understand that lawyer - they are usually the younger people, but not just - who are struggling for a piece of money and whose, very right, choice to close their courts leaves them without the payroll. I mean, the one who on Monday, Tuesday, would take 200-300 euros, won't get it. What about this man? Isn't it worth protection? And how do you exclude them? On what criterion? That it's not enough money you've budgeted. That's right. It's a criterion that sounds. But that exception is completely unfair. Because it does not comply with any criteria. The courts are closed. It wasn't their choice. It was a choice for the protection of public health. Yeah, that's right. But why do you leave them outside? Let's see it again because the injustice here is obvious and too hard. To the pandemic. Consensus. Yeah. That is why I refer to the attitude of the Greek state in this House many times. In other words, both the state and society. I mean, both collusion and counterpopulation. The attitude of all parties is exemplary. This does not mean that our political differences have been abolished. I do not understand any parrots of interest, in this respect, who have found the opportunity to say that Tsipras and Mitsotakis need to find them. What was that? I mean, find what? And what chance? Find something we don't know? Whatever it is to be found here in the House. I want to stress. Thirdly, regarding the pandemic. We have tabled for the second time today an amendment concerning nurses in public hospitals. I, as Minister of Labour and Mr Koutromanis, after me when we could take measures for private health workers, took steps to classify the work of nurses in the unhealthy professions. Sunlight's more obvious. The Finance Ministers of all Governments so far have not taken this option to both health care nurses and hospitals, although Mr Venizelos had signed a joint ministerial decision. I think you should do it. Do you have to do this because when you say that you are applauding and supporting the attitude of the first-line fighters on pandemic, who other than doctors, nurses, EAEC drivers and those who stand in the field of health in this great and agonizing effort must not be strengthened? I think that our amendment should be accepted. And if you don't want to accept it today, you guys can bring in a setup with a next draft law. Fourthly, I want to refer to a few voices, which do not affect the Greek political system, who have now found the opportunity to speak about the restrictions on individual rights. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that many individual rights have been restricted. The right to freedom of movement. A hundred percent. Economic freedom. But these restrictions have not been made because an authoritarian political system, the government of counter-population, has chosen. They were imposed for the purpose of protecting the public health of a legal good which has specific references to the constitutional text and after a weighting made with the other legal goods and which has been judged - and rightly so - that this legal good is important. The logic of science must prevail. Not the logic of pseudo-conspiracy, those who speak of supposedly deliberate acts of proliferation of a virus, a pandemic over the purpose of blah, blah, blah. I am reminded, ladies and gentlemen, of a attitude of many citizens at the time, a few happyly today, which we called them false. Those who said we were being sprayed for three, four, five years. One of them, deputy director or vice president of the National Statistical Authority, had come to the House as well on a committee of inquiry, and I examined him about a statement that he contacted over and over. Because of this guy George was chased. Such citizens were many of them. Half of them became government. But we got over that. Now, again? Same again? New harvest of sprayed grains can't take it. The logic of science is the one that must dominate and no one else. I've already spent my time. As far as the order is concerned, I will refer my own position to the position of the rapporteur for our prolongation of the Change Movement, Mr Kamine. I would like to make a special reference to suspending the reception of asylum requests for a month. Mr. Muzala, I refer to many of you. The measure is correct. And it is right not only because there are fair predictions but because it has been evaluated in advance by the European Court of Human Rights and it was found that it should not be suspended. It was not considered by an assessment of a judicial decision, the assessment of an application for interim measures to suspend execution, that it was found compatible with the Convention on Human Rights. When we talk about this, about the issue arising from the invasion, when we talk about asymmetrical threats, but when we talk about it, and so on, an irregular mass entry - not to say illegal or smuggling - we have to look at things on the basis of our strengths. There are two reports. The reference to the rule of law and a second version of the reference to a historical, a spatial, a - time version. I would like to read in order to understand something that does not concern anyone present and no one present. It is a version of a previous government minister in February 2015. 'There is an international treaty' says the Minister, which clearly refers to the Geneva Convention on Refugees, 'which no one disputes and concerns refugees. According to this, there must be an open road on all borders to get all refugees in and seek asylum. At the entry of foreigners, there are no refugees here, there are foreigners, 'who is a political refugee cannot be seen. If he declares it, he should be allowed to enter and be examined after his application." This is a second source of political positions. I totally disagree. And the vast majority of the Greek people disagree with this. The country has a border. Nobody has to knock on her door to get in. Dear colleague, George Kamin, we'll have a little conversation, say science.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u154	Yeah, but I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u155	Sure. To have a debate between us on the subject of our colleagues. The European Court of Human Rights, Mr President, has delivered its opinion in a recent decision, which you mentioned, that there are certain criteria. One criterion is if there is an entry gate. Evros was there. Now the Turks have shut it down and the last one. But there were, at the time of the invasion, two gates from which they did not attempt to enter. Secondly, it has given criteria that are relevant, as I have heard you say at some point, whether or not it is a massive attempt to get in or if it is not a mass attempt, whether those who are massively taking advantage of the fact that they are many, whether they are using violence and whether they are destroying the defence infrastructures of the state in which they want to enter. All four of these elements Erdogan's attempt to create trouble has covered them up. I am therefore not saying that it is a decision that can be applied. Decisions are individual. But I'm saying it's a useful development that one should count on. As far as the Geneva Convention is concerned, Mr Muzala, you are absolutely right, there is no exception. But it is considered whether the Geneva Treaty can withstand modern reality. I belong to those who say that we need to talk about it again because in 1951, when it was introduced, the times were others and in 2020 there are others. So it is an international text that we need to see if it responds to modern conditions. And from what he informed us and you and us all, Mr. Margaritis Sponge, when he informed the National Representation of the thoughts that exist around his own portfolio, he told us that he was going through their minds too and that they should see the Geneva Convention again. When we talk - I tell myself first of all, not to you or to anyone - so we must not be like the dog running behind his tail and going to bite her and making rounds around his axis. We must speak with our political and outlets. Here Mr Mitarakis told us that the sixty-three people deemed final and irrevocable that they are not entitled to asylum are trying to send them back to Turkey and Turkey does not accept the pandemic issue. We have a huge problem. When we propose something - this is a disgrace to myself - it must be thorough, that this solves the problem. Greece cannot accumulate people who cannot treat it as human beings, nor can it serve and support it when the rest of the Europeans take their stand and when Turkey keeps the attitude it holds and all in the midst of a pandemic. It needs rationalization, it needs a thorough thought, it needs a discussion. Before criticising others to think that we ourselves are trying to analyse things and produce policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u157	Okay. It wasn't personal, but because it really is a big deal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u158	Do not deprive us of this interesting dialogue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u159	He's a scientist. If you can stand him...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u160	That's what I mean. Because it's worth it, Mr. Kamine, I'll give you the floor. In fact, there are also conflicting decisions in the interpretation that you have said, Mr Loverdos will know that. In any case, Mr Kamine, you have the floor. It is worth talking about a different view, an approach, in view of the last decision taken by the European Court of Justice with Spain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u161	Yeah. I won't be a minute. What I pointed out in my suggestion is that, as far as I am able to know, there is no previous country that is planning, organising and effectively carrying out this attempt at mass and violent entry of people into the territory of its neighbour. This is something for me unprecedented. And there, if you will, I support, at least, the issue of suspending our country's application for asylum. The other terms are naturally fulfilled, but there is this additional in this particular case. As far as the Geneva Convention is concerned, it is in fact possible at some points that it does not correspond to reality, but, as far as it is concerned - and I would remind you that, under Article 28(1), it is essentially an admissible rule of international law, an increased standard of law and the other international conventions - we must respect it. And we must respect it not by a blind commitment to legality, but we must observe it because International Law is at the moment the most powerful weapon we have against the threats to our national integrity. We will have the opportunity to discuss these again, because it ends until the deadline laid down in the act of legislation on this suspension, without dogmatism, is no longer obsessed. I would like to hear everyone's scientific views, but I think that we should take a very long time to come to such a suspension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u162	I imagine in the end, and Mr. Kumucascus will tell us if he wants anything. There is, of course, the other version. Now we're talking theoretically, we're not having a conversation. It is also the weighting of the needs of the necessary situation when needed. What, then, will happen when two goods conflict and at some point we have to protect a good? In any case, it is not at present. It could be a day on which to speak, because it is not so simple to be able to approach it. I think that each case is dealt with in the light of the real situations faced by a country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u164	I'm sorry, Mr. Muzala, I didn't see you. You have the floor and you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u165	I think it's the law's place to exclude non-lawyers from such discussions. I will resist with knowledge of my lack of legal issues. I think Mr. Kamines put it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u166	From a legal point of view, you guys get it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u167	I catch it on the side of the rule of law and what I'm trying to defend in here. I'm saying it's possible...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u168	As far as the rule of law is concerned, I have also spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u169	I think I don't have to blame you for this or the other mistake in your theoretical conversation. But what Mr Kamines said is practically true. In other words, there could be conferences on what changes need to be made to the Geneva Treaty today, but this is the case today. And we, a democratic parliament in a democratic country, have to take this very seriously. This does not, in my view, disprove the correctness that there are probably issues within this convention that need to be discussed again under the light of the new reality. I would also like to say: I have stressed that the suspension for reasonable reasons of receiving applications for a limited period of time is something that violates the Geneva Convention, can fit into Union law, even though international law is higher. What I have stressed, however, is that we do not have a suspension here for a month simply of submitting asylum applications. We got two things. We have a critic, barbaric, anti-democratic, I dare say, out of legal texts, the suspension of asylum applications and the return of them. This is push back. It hasn't happened in any country until now. I mentioned four countries that were suspended, but the push back was not done anywhere. A special civil protection regime was granted. That is what we denounce. I am not sure whether there is a proportionality of this attack claimed by the Minister to allow this measure. But even if there is no return allowed, the push back. This thing must be clean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u170	Good. That's enough, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u171	I would also like to say about Spain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u172	Yeah, but it takes a lot of talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u173	Yeah, but look, four have been reported to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u174	The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has also been ratified, it applies as primary law, but it has had the basic clause of solidarity that they have never implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u175	I say, Mr President, that Mr Sicilian has analysed here very well two things which do not allow us to discuss the European Court of Justice's decision on Spain. One is that Spain has legal means to apply for asylum, which we do not have. It has its consulates and embassies which we do not have and which have at its borders to apply for and not a point of entry, like we in Evros. At the entrance point in Evros you can't apply. The second point made by Mr Sisiliano is that the court's decision is not even understood to interfere with the principle of 'non-refoulement', i.e. 'non-push back', of the European Convention. I therefore think it is inappropriate to put this decision of the court here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u176	We could say a lot of things that are in place, because one is whether they were from land, from sea to sea, and that is why there is a broad interpretation. Mr. Metarakis, would you like to speak at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u177	I would just like the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u178	All right, then. Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u179	I just want to say first of all that the issue raised by Mr Lovers is interesting and I think that this debate will take place at some point in the international fora on how the objective conditions have changed since the Geneva Treaty. But that's definitely not here. I would like to say in the Minutes that the Greek Government considers that our position on the suspension of asylum by means of legislation is legally correct and is based on the international law and the sovereign right of our country to protect its borders. I mean that under international law - and allow a non-legislative, as I am, to intervene - the refugee is an individual attempt to escape from danger. We do not see this happening from the end of February. We see an organised attempt by a neighbour to support people who are obviously not in danger and who support them in violating our country's borders. This is the warning difference that led the government to this act of legislative content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u180	Irrespective of this, you see that the debate took place at a high level and that is why you had a comfortable time. Here, Mr Janakopoulou, you have the floor, even though we have delayed you a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must admit I didn't intend to start like this. However, following the position of the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ministers, I am obliged to say that I am truly incompetent, because Mrs Vulture has chosen to launch an attack on two governments, those of Italy and Spain at her suggestion. At the moment, these two countries are facing an unprecedented humanitarian and health crisis, a real tragedy. So instead of the rapporteur of the New Democracy - and I insist on that, as we talk about the rapporteur in the New Democracy - her solidarity with the peoples of Italy and Spain, she has chosen to use the tragedy to charge her again in the simple analogue way. You will remember that an equivalent argument, referring to a few weeks ago in the relationship between mere analog and Hitler, had been made by Mr Gerapetti and then there was a very great outcry. I therefore think that Mrs Vulture should withdraw, because it is not right at this stage to launch attacks on Italy and Spain trying to manage a really very difficult situation. And I wonder here in particular about Mr Kumucako who will be going to Brussels tomorrow and will ask for Italy and Spain's support for reasonable political demands from the Greek Government, because I would remind you that we have taken joint initiatives with these countries both in refugee and migrants, but also in the field of the economy. I therefore think that there is a need for a government position, but also a revocation on the part of the rapporteur from the New Democracy, in my view, of these unfortunate and misguided statements made in the context of a political controversy. I understand that there are cases in which political speech and political controversy may also go away from the thresholds, but I think that a withdrawal at the moment is appropriate, given the situation faced by these two countries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to make some comments on the government's performance in the management of the coronary crisis, because, of course, from the first moment on, SYRIZA has stated in the clearest way that it will be 'blocking' and presenting itself with constructive proposals, but this does not mean that they will be absent from the necessary and as constructive a criticism as possible of the actions and omissions of the government. This is where I think I have to make a little regression. We are about thirty days after the first coronary case was diagnosed in our country and about fifteen days after the first quarantine measures, which would make it necessary for Greek citizens to be individually and collectively responsible for an unprecedented, unprecedented situation. I must say that the citizens, with few exceptions, have demonstrated individual and collective responsibility for the seriousness of this situation. However, these measures of individual and collective responsibility and self-restraint, which have been taken - as I have already said, with the support of counter-population - so that citizens can protect themselves, but with the ultimate objective of what statists or epidemiologists and contagionologists call 'planning the curve', that is to say, to extend the cases in time as much as possible, so that the ESS does not lead to a situation which cannot raise the weight of thousands or hundreds of simultaneous cases and to ensure that there is the necessary time to prepare for the national health system and the government, so that we can as a society and collectively meet this enormous challenge for public health. Unfortunately, however, within these thirty days - and I am expressing a deep concern that I hope will not be confirmed - I see that the government has done absolutely nothing to prepare itself, except constantly invoking the individual responsibility of the citizens. What are the ERC support measures that have been taken over these thirty days? It has been pointed out for at least a week, ten days, the urgent and crucial issue of lack of reagents, so that tests can multiply. What is the government's intervention in relation to this top issue, so that the medical and nursing mechanism can cope with an increase in cases? There is currently no specific intervention or information. We, on the SYRIZA side, have made the suggestion that the National Center of Hepatitism take over a thousand tests a day. It is possible, if necessary, to obtain the necessary equipment. But it seems that the government is lagging behind in this. A second issue is that we have dozens of complaints from hospitals, from doctors, from directors of the National Health System and from nurses that there is a huge shortage of materials to protect nurses and medical staff during the battle against the coronary every day in many hospitals in the country. What exactly has the government done in this regard? Does the government not have to inform both the Greek people and the other parties of the concrete interventions it has undertaken to cover these gaps and shortcomings, which put hospital and medical staff at risk every day and also the administrative staff of the hospitals? Also, there is frugality and nonexistent are the recruitment of doctors and nurses. We have said from the outset that there is a budgetary possibility of recruiting four thousand doctors and nurses, permanently, but this will enable these recruitments to be carried out. Because, it seems, the two thousand recruitments announced by the government are not complete precisely because they are not permanent. I say this as an opportunity to 'health' the ESS with necessary medical and nursing personnel, not only concerning the current state of the crisis, but also as a form of 'professional', it will also be a form of investment in the public health system for the future. Also, we have zero preparation for more IF beds. Here I have to answer Mr Mitarakis, who asked me about the order. And I say to him that it is another thing to demand beds in intensive care units and it is another thing - I beg your pardon - the scandal of raising the daily compensation from EUR 800 to EUR 1,600. We do not have a choice here at a reasonable price, less than usual. That means requisition. Charge means I'm lowering the price. I'm giving a fair reward just to face a crisis situation. And what are you doing? On the contrary, raise the price. I'm sorry, but that doesn't exactly fall within the concept of requisition. That is what one would say, within the meaning of the marginal scandal, and I must point out it. SYRIZA has long pointed out the needs and has proposed measures. And we tell you with concern, with anguish, with real desire to help in a situation that we understand is beyond us all. We say this, however, and with all the necessary tension: four thousand recruits of permanent medical and nursing staff now! You have managed to hire a thousand five hundred policemen - and Mr Muzalas, the SYRIZA rapporteur, pointed out this - in a week's time. You can do it. Both the financial possibilities exist, but the administrative possibilities exist so that the four thousand recruitments can be implemented and completed within a week to ten days. We have also tabled an amendment to you, which I understand you will not accept as a government, for the inclusion of nursing and medical staff, both of the National Health System and of the National Social Care System and of the EKA, in the heavy and unhealthy professions. I think it is the government's duty at the moment, given the Krone crisis treaty, to make this necessary intervention. Because I understand the symbolic expressions of recognition of medical and nursing staff, but after some time, practical support is needed. Active support means heavy and unhealthy, but at the same time practical support also means providing the necessary protection for workers in the national health system from the coronary. Because, as I have already pointed out, I do not think the government's performance at this time corresponds to the increased needs that exist. Also ensures specific funding tests, but also private workshops. End of story, IF beds. We do not have to wait for the 'peak' of the crisis to start preparing and multiplying intensive care units. If the crisis prevents us, if the intensity of the crisis in the next few weeks grows, we will not be able to make up for lost time. We therefore point it out now: act quickly. I think that this is an essential point that can improve the situation and prevent possible tragic developments in the country. I must, however, point out that, in the area of the labour market too, things are extremely problematic, and it seems that the government is insisting - you will allow me to express it - in absolute dissatisfaction policies. I would point out very briefly, because we have said so. Turn-over work and wage cuts to 50% are a truly disastrous idea. I think that, not only is it a disastrous idea, but it is presented from Mr Brutsi's side as a great intervention to create the new labour law in the country. These things are also economically dangerous, but also socially harmful. I think that this measure must be withdrawn immediately, because the only thing that can cause is an even greater crisis. And we warn: the economic crisis from the coronary is certain. It's gonna happen. And this crisis must not be paid by the workers. We have said that your political choice to turn workers into benefits is completely wrong. We have tabled a counter-proposal completely costly. Because I have heard the Minister say that we are not costing our proposals and that we are making proposals on air. So we say to you, very simply, that in order to subsidise all wages to the companies that are closing, either on the government's mandate or because of the fall of their turnover, a sum is required for a month or some 970 million euros. In other words, it is absolutely within the country's budgetary possibilities at the moment to go ahead with this measure. We could talk a great deal of time about what is happening on the labour market, a situation which nothing good does not happen. I think the government's function is in the wrong direction. It should be fully protected and not in terms of further deregulation of the labour market, so that it can protect the workers as much as possible at a new stage of economic and social uncertainty. I am going through acts of legislation too soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u182	Now are you going to tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u183	The previous speakers have also spoken beyond their time. Mr. Loverdos spoke seventeen minutes. I'd like two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u184	There's a time tolerance. Go on, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u185	I'll say the following. As far as the legislative act is concerned, I am not going to get into the procedural procedure. I think you have had the opportunity to bring these provisions in the ordinary legislative procedure. You didn't choose it. I think the reason is clear. You do not want to embarrass the Members of the New Democracy. In any case, I am going beyond the point of order, and I say to you as follows: The act of legislation, which deals with land requirements on the islands for the creation of closed centres, is, in fact, nothing but the way in which you want to manage a problem that you yourself have created. How did you create this problem? By stopping the transport of refugees and immigrants to the mainland and especially to vulnerable people. You know very well that you've received Moria with five thousand people. Right now there are twenty - two - twenty - three thousand people. I therefore think it is rather unfortunate to ask the opposition to support one, in its opinion, extreme policy, which comes to solve a problem that you have created in yourself. On the issue of the suspension of asylum, because an extremely interesting legal debate was held, first comment: The European Court of Human Rights does not interpret the Geneva Convention. It interprets the European Convention on Human Rights. And what he said was that Spain's specific practice does not conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights, with one particular reasoning. He said nowhere - and he did not have the opportunity to say so - whether the practice of Spain is in breach of or is not in breach of the Geneva Convention, two completely different things. Second comment. I fully agree with Mr Kamine's position. The fact that people may want or have in mind - rightly and reasonably - all this in the debate is perfectly legitimate - and to speak of the need to amend the Geneva Convention does not mean that the Geneva Convention does not bind us until it is amended. And it's totally binding on us. This means that you cannot respond to an illegality - because what Erdogan does is indeed an illegality - doing a second illegality. It is a completely different thing to work on refugees and migrants on the Erdogan side and the legal obligations are quite different, but also the humanitarian duty of Greece in terms of managing these populations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u186	Please complete. You've been in eighteen minutes. Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u187	I say as clearly as possible that the country is currently violating international law and it is quite wrong that the legal statement made previously by Mr Metarakis that the suspension of asylum is in line with the country's international obligations. If we had a little more time, I could say more things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u188	Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I saw that Mr. Janakopoulos avoided answering questions about how the division is spreading in the country with the “after we will be accountable for” and all these vulgar threats that have been launched by officials of your former government and your leadership. You were disturbed about what I said. You're not rejoicing. Don't twist. You just want to hide the truth about what's happening. You want us to hide what the consequences of your proposals are with the simple analogues and with the election being held on Tuesday, Saturday, Saturday and with the governments totally inconsistent. Look, Thucydides said history is philosophy by example. You won't stop us, you won't pry us, not to say what the reality is. And let me tell you this: it's nothing secret. They know that themselves, because you're worried about each other and we meet them and they're bothered. They know at the moment that we are talking, firstly, that justice in Spain - if you learn Spanish and Italian, you will see that their newspapers are writing these - they are dealing with the major protests on 8 March that Spanish newspapers are writing that disagreements within the government are delaying the battle against the coronary and finally that pots on the night of Saturday, 21 March, did not hit them for doctors and nurses, as they were told in Greece, because their doctors and nurses applaud them, they do not have pans. The pots were ringed because Mr. Iglesias violated the quarantine. Everything I said is true. The Greek people must know and must know now, not afterwards. You tell us why you are claiming that we must now cover everything, what the Italians themselves say, what the Spanish people say, what their newspapers write, the facts themselves, as if we have to do, while at this very moment all Greeks, Mr President, ask: What happened, children, in Spain? What happened in Italy? Lombardy had the best system. Of course they don't get an answer because the answer is: What party is the coronary? The coronary is a party of hawali. He wants unconsciousness and insolence. It does not want stable governments, which take decisions without having to become a whole straitjacket and take decisions two months after the first dead one. I didn't say you were rejoicing. Excuse me, because I have special relations with these countries. I said that we need to get together and see what happens, because as things are going on, if there are no governments that can make decisions, Prime Ministers who can listen to a particular committee and their instincts and their sensory to make decisions for the people, Greece cannot stand such adventures. That's what we're trying to prevent now. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u190	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute, because Mr Janakopoulos referred to me and allowed the dialogue. It's not between Ministers, it's between parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u192	Wait a minute, Mr. Levane. You have the floor, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u193	I would like to make a point, Mr President. I have opened a legal issue and I am pleased that many colleagues, including the parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u194	You realise that this issue cannot be resolved here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u195	No, of course, but there must be an exchange of arguments. It's not bad. We've got time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u196	Okay, one comment to make by the spokesman. It's interesting. Let's hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u197	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u198	I have opened up a legal issue and there have been many reactions here, and that gives me pleasure. I want to make a comment. Maybe I'll break an open door, so he'll tell me himself. When the Court of Human Rights, as well as any international court, devises its legal thoughts, does not just - let us say - the law resulting from the convention on which it is competent to decide, but by devising its legal reasoning, puts on the table all the relevant regulations. Indeed, in this case, the law of refugees is a law which has more than a hundred and fifty countries ratified, it concerns the United Nations and it is a text of very great and serious value. After he has formulated his legal reasoning, having the texts in front of him, will he see which text deprives himself of what 'older - younger law' criterion? 'in particular - in general?' And other criteria and he will decide. That's the right idea. You cannot say that the assessment of the law of refugees cannot be ruled out when an international judicial body makes decisions. Secondly, it emerged, Mr President - and I am closing down with this - a political issue then. My colleague, Mr Janakopoulos, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, said it is illegal for the Hellenic Republic to stop accepting - not the approval but acceptance - applications for political asylum. Mr Colleagues, first of all, this was legally judged to a provisional extent by the Court of Human Rights itself, which, contrary to what you say and I wonder how you continue with it. So what do you think should be done? May we allow it? So what your Minister said five years ago, to open up our borders, get inside and then look into it when it comes to an asymmetrical threat? I'm impressed by that. Politicians are astonishing to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u200	See? Now we are giving Mr Janakopoulos the right, because he will say that the content of what he said has been altered. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u201	A clarification. I repeat: the European Court of Human Rights has had a specific question to answer in Spain if this practice violates the European Convention on Human Rights. He did not have the power to reply, nor could he have the power to answer, whether the Geneva Convention is being violated or not. These are two completely different issues. As you know very well, the court only answers the question raised to it. Secondly, I would like to say again that the choice to suspend asylum and, as Mr Muszalas has explained, at the same time, is completely and provenly illegal, is in breach of the Geneva Convention and that is not something that can be called into question by anyone. I therefore insist 100% that one illegality, namely the Turkish leadership of refugees and immigrants, cannot justify any further illegality. Asylum suspension is not a countermeasure. It is a direct violation generally accepted rule of international law, firstly, and secondly, a rule which exists in a contract signed by the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u202	So, Mr. Janakopoulos, the country has no defence, it's not protected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u203	Now, in theory, I just want to say that. We're not getting into the point. The Court shall not, however, be prevented from dealing with questions either by way of a question or by a question referred for a preliminary ruling. But that is not what we are talking about now. Not that he has no right, by the way, to examine them. Mr. Muzalas, who has experience, will also tell you, and Mr. Loverdos or Mr. Kumoucasos, who are involved in these issues. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin today's speech, thanking once again all these modern heroes with the white, green and blue T-shirts, who give the battle on the front line of war against the invisible enemy of the virus. I repeat, because there is a lot of discussion today, that we support and protect them as much as we can. I would obviously also like to respond to the criticism made by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman about what we are doing and what we are not doing about dealing with the virus. I repeat, therefore, that our position and our efforts to strengthen the public health system and protect the national health system are clear. They have been approved, Mr Janakopoulos, three thousand about three hundred posts and not two thousand of them mentioned before. You're behind. We constantly anticipate temporary staff, where necessary, because this is an ongoing crisis. We do not, of course, support, as Mera25 spokesman did before, saying four, six, eight and so on. We aim and take responsibility for a programme and recruit those who need it. Wherever we need to, there'll be more recruits. There is no doubt about that. They've all figured it out. We also appealed for volunteers, and this is not what you are doing today, and I think it should be recorded in the Minutes. I am moved, at least personally, to see that there are thousands of our fellow citizens who voluntarily intend to help. Our party, New Democracy, currently has seven hundred fifty volunteers, who have been on the website that we opened, just to offer side by side with this sum of staff, which we hire quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u205	Are they going with party ID?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u206	No, not at all. On the contrary. We did just that. Mr. Muzalas says if he's with a party identity. This is not about parties, it is about dealing with the problem. And these people, we're just helping them channel to the municipality. These are volunteers, Mr. Muzala, not employees. They're volunteers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u207	You told us about the New Democracy. You didn't tell us they were volunteers. You told us they were volunteers of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u208	You're confused because you don't understand. You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Muzala, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u210	You didn't understand, but slowly we'll come to that. You're way behind, Mr. Muzala. At the same time, we are increasing the available positions in the IFs as quickly as possible. We put entire hospitals, such as NIMITS, "Pamakarist" and "The ATICA Therapy". Mr Georgiadis' amendment, to which you have not referred, is precisely trying to fill gaps, for example in antiseptics. I repeat that we are protecting doctors and nurses, ensuring as far as we can in this crisis and with the international competition that is necessary. We have orders in progress and, in any case, in addition to your gloomy criticism, we are also waiting for some concrete proposals and, if they are correct and creative, we will follow them. That is what I wanted to say, with regard to the equipment of the IFs that you have said, either for the masks or for the respirators or for everything else you have to make a creative, constructive proposal. In any case, for the order you have said, you have given an answer as to whether or not there should be any orders, as Mr Matetarakis has asked you. I think your answer was missing too. You blame us for giving more money to private hospitals for the beds they give us for the ITHs. But, ladies and gentlemen, when we for the same reasons, namely public safety, have effectively banned the operation of hospitals in terms of interventions - only the absolutely necessary ones, these hospitals have an operating cost. Where do you live? How will they cover their operating costs to be there to keep the country's health system up? Don't you understand? It's just math, but apparently, you live in another century.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u211	Yes, the workers will get 400 euros and the clinics 1,600 euros!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u212	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u213	But lie about work, too. You're talking about reducing the wage to 50% and saying that we're bringing in a middle-aged one. But you still don't understand? Mr. Muzalas left the Chamber. It can't be adapted to the new data. Maybe you'll be leaving soon, too. What we are talking about is very simple. Those companies who want to get into the assistance programme, which we have, and use a fortnight - for many reasons, not to eat all my time to explain it to you, I can explain it to you later - for their employees, they will be paid for the fortnight by the companies and 400 euros will be paid by the state. That's what we're saying. Expose yourself, however, and you have been exposed billions today and what Mr. Lover said to you. You are basically saying - and I am glad you said so to hear the whole of the Greek people - that the suspension of asylum is illegal. This is your position, you have your own, the Greek people have their own and it happens that we in the government and that there are other political parties who are aware of the criticality of the times. Inside, then, we achieve precisely the critical objective of giving the ESS the time to manage incidents so that we can win lives. I want, because it is good in this Chamber to give the right, to thank Mr Loverdos, because he has actually opened up a debate, which will be done in the future, and I hope it will be done in the nice way that he has started here too. The constitutionality of these exceptional measures was therefore essentially the placement. SYRIZA does not understand - and we have seen it from his representatives here - that things are changing, that we are entering another period, a period of post-Korizon, which we will discuss again the issues of modernity, but also the whole of our legal and political culture. There you will see who will be justified by history. We fight for the coronary we also give it to the economy. We're moving on gradually. I'll explain to you a little what happened with the lawyers. Indeed, we would like to cover all free professionals. We'd like to cover the scientists, too. We have been judging - and I reply to you too, Mr Loverdo - that in the first year - we may in the second year change things - the scientific classes, namely the accountants, doctors, lawyers. They can withstand without this allowance of EUR 800. Progressively, if this goes on, we will obviously be dealing with the problem differently. The activation of the escape clause by the Stability Pact has strengthened - and we have seen this today - the power of the government. Yesterday's letter - the Prime Minister's initiative of eight other leaders to the President of the European Council for the extradition of the Eurobond - is, in fact, proof that the government is leading the initiatives to take new more active instruments to support European economies and obviously the Greek one. And, of course, I stress this - we are - and we prove that every day - solidarity with the Italian and Spanish people. We are standing next to our allies in the historic republics of Spain and Italy, which are brutally tested. We support the efforts of their governments and we are all fighting together for a strong, pioneering, creative and solidarity. This concerns all of our executives. Evidently that is what Mrs Vulture thinks, and she said so. Just you, Mr. SYRIZA spokesman, wicked, twisted what he said, which he just wanted to say? He explained it to you. That when we have cooperation governments, these governments are slow to make decisions and problems are growing. That's either simple. We have, of course, read the statements and the answer essentially of the German Minister for Finance, who spoke of the krone - a bond as an old idea and rejected it. It is clear that the crisis of 2008 has not changed the thoughts of some. Today, however, we are talking about human lives and everyone in Europe must, of course, be more careful. The stubborn and Protestant approach of European budgetary policy in the period of the economic crisis was wrong. He critically hit the core of Europe, threw water into the mill of populism, swollen the extreme voices and the parties, and finally did nothing at the end. It was based on the mistaken penitentiary of the unprecedented south by the rational north. Today, the refusal to share, the rejection of the right idea of Eurobonds is not a simple mistake, it is a social one - you will allow me to say - and a political crime. It is inspired by a dogmatic concept, by anachronistic dogmatism that is at risk of being destructive for all of Europe. This afternoon at the European Council, the debate will take place either on the bond or on the European Union's credit line. Our strategy therefore falls right within the framework of the common European policy. But at the same time, as I said a moment ago, we are struggling to influence the European Union, Germany in the right, fair and mutual direction. At home we are working fast and efficiently, but also with measure and seriousness. The irresponsible krone we have heard before are not helpful, the ruthless political announcements. The party competition of counter-population in the overcapacity of money without costing, without a time horizon for this crisis, which you have not spoken about at times, unfortunately brings us back to the field of populism. The crisis is a marathon and we're still in the first miles. The government is on constant vigilance with increased reflexes of social solidarity and a universal assumption of the historical responsibility that has taken place. I sincerely hope with the same responsibility and seriousness that the Opposition will work, isolating those views that we have heard, but also other worse, extremist, impatient and arrogant. The government's vigilance is also apparent in the other major crisis we are facing, in Turkey's aggression that is working on refugee - immigration that remains under way. Thank you once again from this Step by the Armed Forces, who, in the midst of a pandemic, guard our borders with self-determination, courage and bravery. In addressing this threat, it is also about the MAGPs that we are discussing today. On the subject of the order you spoke in detail, the Minister spoke in detail, and I will not go into it. As regards the second on asylum, we have all seen Turkey's attack on Evros with the modern tactics of a hybrid war. He has worked thousands of human souls to satisfy geopolitical pursuits. The country's response to the border sealing at Evros was immediate. The high strength and preparedness of the Security Forces has shown that the river was and will be impassable. Europe supports Greece, practically recognising the correctness of Greek politics. The leadership of the European Union was found in Evros and lived closely with Turkish provocation. European military forces are patrolling there, making practical proof that the Greek border is European. I would like to refer here to the position of the SYRIZA rapporteur, who, in my opinion, called for the deterrence - he says - we are doing so. It seems to me that it is really true - for the second time I will say it - out of the climate. He blamed us. His words in particular were as follows. He said: 'You have humiliated us' - and he meant the government - 'when you went to Evros with Europe'. We are told that you will guard the borders of the European Union. In his written text, as I saw him, he tried to link the government and the New Democracy to a extreme right and fearful audience and party. I disagree with you, Mr. Muzala. I am pleased, however, that you have also been exposed two, three times in this House today, to this official step. I am pleased that he can hear you, as well as Mr Janakopoulos before, the Greek people and judge. Fortunately, in this democracy everyone has the right to differing opinion, but we are all judged. And I fear that you will be so self-sufficient in this way in the margins of history. In reply to those in and out of the House who speak of anti-democratic decisions and a decision contrary to international law, I would again remind you that the suspension of asylum was the necessary defence of our country against this hybrid invasion attempted by our neighbour, a response, as was heard, in accordance with Union and international law, of a response dictated by our sovereign obligation and commitment to protect the Greeks who are, yes, and European borders. And as we have seen with the Italian energy and the filing of the illegal coordinates in the UN, but also with the overcrowding yesterday, Turkey insists on provoking, precisely in violation of international law. Our answer was immediate on the road to international law. We protect and defend our sovereign rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we are giving a two-front fight, we face both the danger from the east and the invisible enemy. For both the government is doing its duty to protect our homeland. That's what he did and that's what he's going to do. For the invisible enemy, however, responsibility is burdened with all of us, all of us Greek citizens. At this point I would also like to refer to our great writer Nikos Kazantzakis, and to reply to Mr Loverdos on a subject that concerns a lot of people, yes, we are integrating him into the timeless patriots and we have no fear of being placed in this regard. So Kazantzakis said: “Love responsibility, say me. I'll save the world myself. If it is lost, it will be my fault." So let's all give this battle. Let's stay at home on the one hand, doing our home debt. But let us all work together, however, political parties, MPs, government, for the moment withholding any ideological differences we have. Let us show political maturity and let us all assume our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u214	We're going to hang up with the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u216	No, please, we're done now, Mr. Muzala, you've taken the floor twice. There's no staff here or there was nothing top on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, he said that I would go to the margin of history. I think you're in breach of your role. He referred personally to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u218	What are you talking about? Do you have any complaints? The only ones who could have complained at the moment would be the three rapporteurs, Ms. Konnaka, Mr. Kamines and Ms. Vultesis who spoke less than everyone. Not now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u219	He referred personally to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u220	All right, tell us for a minute what the staff consists of, but speak of the staff, Mr. Muzala, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u221	Yeah, it's a personal falsification of what I said. I didn't say you humiliated us or humiliated us because you went to Evros. I didn't say that you humiliated us or you didn't fool us, because we're self-evidently protecting our borders from a coordinated organised attack. I said, however, that the fact that you and the three majors of the European Union spoke of nothing else and subjugated our country, you determined that they would play the role of shield and nothing else, that they would bring us FRONTEX and the army - which are doing well - so that we can guard the borders so that they are involved and you did not ask for anything else. At the same time, we were asking you to call a council of Heads, get relocation issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u222	Now you're getting away, you've responded to the staff, now you're saying something extra. You've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u223	It's personal. When your statements are falsified, they are personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Muzala, what can I tell you now? You've spoken fifteen and two, seventeen and three, twenty minutes now. No rapporteur has spoken so much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u225	Have I spoken for twenty minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u226	Here you go. Finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u227	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u228	I'm done. You're the one who took the floor again without being entitled to it. I'm on staff again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u229	You two before me the second time. Don't make the king's king now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u230	Please, Mrs. Vulture, let him finish! Here, finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u231	So I say that what I said about Evros and the Prime Minister's visit to the three prominent officials of the European Union is that he accepted the European logic - particularly of the Visegrad countries - to be a shield and to accept people as a warehouse. This is clear that SYRIZA does not accept. SYRIZA will be a shield when it's attacked, but we won't be a human warehouse. We will demand a diplomatic and political solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u232	The Minister, Mr Kumouchakos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. I also asked to speak after the concern expressed by Mr Janakopoulos about what we will be supporting at our meetings in Europe, in Brussels, after Mrs Vultesis's intervention. And that gives me, of course, the opportunity to refer to three, four of the points raised by my colleagues. First of all, you will allow me to begin with what Mr Muzalas just said. He attempted by his intervention to shrink the importance of a great event. What is this big event? The visit of the leaders of all European institutions and of the presidency to the Greek border at the time when they were subject to an asymmetrical threat. This fact was not only of semantic value, it did not have a value limited or finished in the images produced by this fact. It was a geopolitical event of great importance. The presence of the heads of the four European institutions at that time at the Greek border was the first, as far as I remember, admitting and confirming all the institutions that the external borders of a Member State are a European border. This cannot shrink behind the argument that the role of the 'wield' does not suffice us. I repeat that that day was an important, historic, institutional and geopolitical day for the development of European integration and for the protection of national interests. I now go to what Mr. Janakopoulos put. Mrs. Vuldesis explained her position. I think that it clearly appeared that she was talking more about a system of governance than about our obvious, clear and unequivocal position of solidarity and - I would say - respect for the people of two friends and partner countries, such as Italy and Spain. We are putting forward not only solidarity but also deep respect for these tragic moments that these countries face, accepting the greatest and most tragic consequences of pandemic. I should like to say, Mr President, that we should be giving this message of respect and solidarity to our partners. Do you know why? Because we are passionate about another logic that during the difficult period of bankruptcy and the memorials there were partners who said "we will not become Greece" and we were bitter at the time when they said that to our pain and difficulty. Where we waited for reasons of solidarity, for example "we are with you, we understand your problems and we support you", we accepted this subcutaneous and poisoning criticism of the fact that they will not become Greece. So we have additional reason in these difficult hours for friends and partners to emit messages of solidarity and respect, let alone these countries are the hard core of the countries that support a major intervention by the Greek Prime Minister at the moment for a financial European solidarity with the peoples of Europe affected by the tragic consequences of the pandemic, the 'cross-currency', the Eurobond, if you wish, which we are asking with them, and we are right to ask. Because I think the pandemic has shown everyone that we have to go to another time. We have been pushed by the tragedy of the last few days to pass on to the post-Stability Pact. We must look very carefully at the fact that hard budgetary austerity right now must give its place to a European policy of support and solidarity. This does not mean budgetary arbitrage, nor obviously budgetary diversion. We are again looking for the wise middle street, which will not be an exhaustive austerity, but it will not be a budgetary immunity. Of course, the other thing that we are doing together with these states, particularly because we are leading states in migration - Spain, Italy, Greece, Malta, Cyprus - is that we have lifted the flag of a difficult struggle that is to impose, if we are able, under very difficult conditions, the need for the new European immigration and asylum pact to prevail and provide for a fundamental, value and principle that is fair burden sharing, let alone when these countries accept disproportionate migratory burdens from an erection that, let us not laugh, will not stop. So we say: 'Italian, Spanish, French, we are with you. We are giving here our great struggle, but we do not forget your great, titanic work.” Now, as far as the other major, in my view, is concerned, was there a violation of international law by the Greek Government's decision to suspend the right to asylum for a month? I realise that there is an interest, but it would be better to be legal and not political, because it has no influence, Mr Muzala. I am telling you this in the name of knowledge and of deep conviction, because the events of those days have shown the one-way that should be followed not by our government, but by every Greek government. And I'll explain, the plan was organized, I'd say planned. I can substantiate him in the conclusions that I personally reached when I first met Mr Soilou in October last year. What he told me at that meeting came to confirm the actions of the Turkish Government shortly afterwards. Everything was predetermined and planned. After all, it was not by chance that the repetitive for months and with very frequent statements by all relevant Turkish officials, who were statements directly and hectic threats against Europe and through this way and against Greece, that the immigration gates will be opened and governments will fall. "I will send you," said Mr. Silu at that meeting, "two thousand on Saturday, fifty thousand on Sunday and seventy-five thousand on Monday." I reveal today that this had been said to me at the time, not to us, but to the Europeans. We therefore had an organised plan to exploit the hopes of desperate people to achieve geostrategic objectives by extortion of Europe. Could we have, or have, any other option than sealing the borders, than the action which the protection of a vital interest requires, such as defending the territorial integrity of the country? Apparently not. After all, this is an obligation and a right of States which derive from international law itself. However, in Community law two articles of the Treaty, in 42 and 72, recognise the exclusive competence of protecting their security and borders to the Member States. This is so major that it justifies a difficult - indeed - and an extraordinary decision of the monthly suspension of the right to lodge a request for asylum. For of course Greece has as a fundamental stone in its foreign policy respect for international law, but this also goes hand in hand with the fundamental provision of international law that states must protect their borders and territorial integrity. There was, therefore, an extraordinary suspension, an emergency measure under exceptional and very dangerous conditions for the safety of the country. And, as I have said, the predictions and the primary European law give us this possibility. That is why the Minister, Mr Metarakis, has rightly said that this emergency was a legitimate one - and I stress it again - and a temporary lifting of this possibility. But there was talk of what Greece was doing. I have not heard a debate from the Members who have raised it about the serious illegality that Turkey is committing. Because what he did violates general international law, including the European Convention on Human Rights, which says that there should be no insecurity in the lives of nationals or people whose responsibility is one country - Turkey in this particular case. It was a straightforward violation of the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey. It was a straightforward violation of the readmission agreement between the European Union and Turkey. It was a direct violation of the 2000 UN Migrant Movement Protocol. But it was also a straight, provocative and insulting violation of good neighborhood relationships. A principle that is fundamental to the country's foreign policy. What Turkey has done was, I would say, a model of violation of good neighbourly relations. And that's why our reaction was what it was and will continue to be the same. The country's land and sea borders will be protected in every way. And one last. We have three challenges at the same time: the protection of public health from the horn pandemic, the treatment of the refugee problem and, of course, the threat policy, the challenges from Turkey. In the face of this threefold challenge facing the country, I do not think there is any other way than the political responsibility of all the political forces. A responsibility which is burdening all our shoulders to safeguard at this time of crisis the degree of political unity that the Greek people expect from us. Of course that does not mean a levelling-up of positions, opinions and programmes, but it certainly means an effort by everyone to strengthen, with our political behaviour and political speech, the effort by the government, which is currently expressing the whole of the people. So we have to go. There's no other way. And the other challenge, the treatment of pandemic and national security with respect for international law, is fully taken as a state and as a government. It's a thin line that you also defend public security, that your national independence you defend, that you defend public health, and at the same time International Law. It is a policy that moves on a thin line. That's the truth. We won't cross that line. Finally, I would like to say that there is an amendment tabled by Mr Katrugalos on the issue of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and their hospitalisation to those who are specifically serving abroad during the Krone period. The amendment tabled will not be accepted by the government not for a reason of refusal, but for the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with its circular, which I would like to read a few days ago, covers all these concerns of Mr Katrugalo's amendment. I read from the information note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Minutes, Mr. President: "Due to the extremely urgent and unforeseen situation with COVID -19, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued on the basis of a mandate from the political leadership on 20-3-2020 on 16,871 emergency circular to all the unpaid diplomatic and consular authorities, which ensures that any costs of medical and hospital care for officials serving in foreign authorities are covered." That is why we are not accepting Mr Katrugalos' amendment at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u234	The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum is closed: "Follow it from 10.2.20 BC. "Urgent property requisition arrangements to avoid risks to public order and health" (A'28) and of 2.3.20 B.N.A. "Suspension of applications for asylum" (A'45) and other provisions." We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, four articles, one amendment, the hotel article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendment, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u235	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u236	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, appear on the screens of the Chamber, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u237	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum: "Structuring it from 10.2.20 P.N.P. "Urgent property requisition arrangements to avoid risks to public order and health" (A'28) and of 2.3.20 B.N.A. "Suspension of applications for asylum" (A'45) and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle, articles, amendments and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u239	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-26-S1-commons.u240	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 15.30 p.m.
