ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 13-2-2020 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 13 February 2020, with regard to the vote on all draft laws, were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau:]] 1. "Structuring from 3.2.2020 individual Donation Convention - Project I and from 3.2.2020 Amendment Convention of 3.6.2019 individual Donation Convention - Project VI between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos Foundation" and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade infrastructure in the field of health" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Amendment of Law 4251/2014 (A'80) adapting Greek legislation to Directive (EU) 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for entry and residence of third-country nationals for research, studies, practical training, voluntary service, exchange of pupils or educational programmes and the employment of in-house unpaid assistants (au pair)’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Debate on the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, pursuant to Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, to inform the House of government policy on employment. In accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure of the House on the timely and responsible information and information of the House, the Government may, in addition to the pre-dated debate on the next article, request at any time to make announcements or statements before it on any serious public matter. The request for a statement or a statement with their subject-matter shall be made to the President of the Parliament and shall be communicated to the Presidents of the Dispute Parliamentary Groups at least twenty-four hours ago. The relevant request by the Prime Minister was sent on 6 February and was made available to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups of the Opposition Parliament, as laid down in Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure. The government's announcement or declaration shall be made in person by the Prime Minister at any legislative or parliamentary inspection meeting before the beginning of the discussion on the agenda and shall not exceed 10 minutes. The Chairpersons of the Representation Parliamentary Groups may, in person, develop their views on the content of the statement or declaration made by the Government for a maximum of five minutes by the defendant. If the President of the Parliamentary Group is absent or ill, he shall be replaced by a representative of the nominated one in the debate. The Prime Minister's reply to the views of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups may not exceed five minutes. The denunciation of the Presidents of the Vice-Presidents of Parliamentary Groups may not exceed three minutes and the Prime Minister, who speaks last and closes the sitting, five minutes. Where the statements and declarations made by the Government before the House are made by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups shall not be entitled to speak without prejudice to the second subparagraph of paragraph 4 of this Article. However, for the better organisation of the debate, in line with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 12 February, in which I am sure the House agrees, the speaking times of the Prime Minister and of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are doubled. Therefore, speaking times are shaped as follows: Prime Minister for Protology 20 minutes, dentology 10 minutes, tritology 10 minutes, Chairmans of the Parliamentary Groups of the Anti-Population Protology Ten minutes, six minutes dentology. Given that the planned times are already in double, I would ask the Commissioners and ladies and gentlemen to understand and respect them as much as possible. The Prime Minister, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I wish many years to the holidays and the holidays, and I make a wish for the climate of love today's day to reflect on today's meeting. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] First of all, I should like to explain how the debate is structured. I have received two topical questions from Mr Tsipras and Mr Koutsoubas with similar subjects, the issue of working matters, and therefore I have chosen to use the relevant Rule of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and to turn this debate into a debate that will enable all political leaders to participate in the work of the Rules of Procedure, as the President of the Parliament has developed it. So we are here today to discuss employment, not only because the creation of many well-paid jobs is an unnecessarily governmental priority, nor simply because many of the elements on which the parties are relying today's meeting are also false and misleading, but I have brought today's meeting because I believe that, especially in the issues relating to the world of work, our different ideological perceptions are clearly reflected. We believe in producing new wealth to which everyone will share. We do not believe that temporary relief allowances are the solution to the problems of social inequality. I have said many times since I was Chief of Officer Representation that the best social policy in the country is to create many good new jobs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So there cannot be a strong country without strong private businesses. But there can be no bourgeois enterprises without satisfied workers. After all, this was the truth agreement, which we signed with the world of businesses in anti-elections, which we said clearly that we are reducing taxes, simplifying the licensing environment, facilitating businesses to the front of the liquidity, and companies are in turn obliged to invest in our own country, but above all to take care of their employees. This truth agreement is without doubt being observed in the seven months that we are in the government. And I sincerely regret that, on such an important subject, Mr Tsipras was able to fit into his question within two pages of three-fold lies and inaccuracies, once again presenting a distorting picture of reality. So let's go see the evidence presented by the Chief of Staff, so I can answer it in my turn with specific data. SYRIZA claims that today there is an increase in unemployment in Greece. According to ELSTAT's official figures, unemployment in November fell to 16.5% from 18.6% of the corresponding month in SYRIZA. I submit the relevant information to Parliament's minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Second inaccuracy. It is hypocritically still speaks of the Qualified Opposition that there is a record of redundancies today. The truth: Instead of redundancies in recent months, full-time workers have increased. In fact, it is sixty - five thousand seven hundred eighteen more than last year, as are the companies that employ them. Two hundred fifty-seven thousand three hundred thirteenths were in 2018, two hundred sixty-five thousand two hundred twelve were in 2019. I present the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Third lie. It goes on to say that the Labour Inspectorate has been downgraded and that this is how intrusion in the labour market is resurrected. What's the truth? In the second half of 2019, more than a thousand checks were carried out in the corresponding period of 2018, while in the first half of our governance, in the second half of 2019, the auditing centres of EKKA, the second mechanism available to us to control the infringement in the labour market, checked twenty-six thousand four cases against how many over the last six months of your own governance, eleven thousand six hundred and twenty-eight. I submit the relevant information in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fourth lie. It supports the Qualified Opposition that permanent jobs are lost in favour of part-time or rotating employment. What's the truth? This year we have one million three hundred seventy-four thousand four hundred two permanent workers, sixty-five thousand eighteen more than last year and for the first time since the four-year SYRIZA, where there has also been a very large increase in part-time work, there has been an increase in the share of full-time employment in total employment. I'm filing the relevant data. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's a fifth lie. The Qualified Opposition insists that it was supposed to be our term of office and Mr Brutsi's government that collective negotiations are being circumvented. The truth is that the exception is only provided for if the social partners themselves decide to save a company and that exception is well provided for in cases where, with the agreement of workers and employers, an undertaking can, in order to avoid a range of bankruptcy, which will lead to the dismissal of all workers, seeks and agrees to an exception from the collective agreements. However, the rule of collective agreements always applies. And proof is this sectoral collective labour agreement, which was only signed in December, on the conditions for the remuneration and work of staff of all kinds of tourist and food shops throughout the country. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The sixth lie is the alleged non-expansion of fixed-term contracts in the public sector. Mr Tsipras refers to his question about what we are doing with the five and a half thousand scientists, unemployed graduates of higher education institutions, who are part of the OAED programme. I wonder, Mr Tsipras: When you raise this issue, do you not know that these workers signed a fixed-term contract? Do you not know that in your own notice, chapter 6, reads ‘extension or conclusion of a new contract in the same calendar year’ or ‘conversion into an indefinite contract’? Are they void? Don't you know that? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're still mocking our new fellow citizens, closing the eye in illegal boulders. I'll insist again, close the door to the appointments from the window. So here's who's taking over the old one and who's taking over the new one! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Social well-being depends on the daily creation of more and better jobs in the private sector. The state has an essential role to play through active employment policies. I will come to this subject following my speech, but the private sector will give the answer to the problem of unemployment. No recruitment to the public, and yet not out-of-procedure APA, with procedures that unfortunately maintain customer relations and often create plastic needs. That was the reality that we inherited, and that is why businesses must be easier to hire, as must be checked more easily and the reasons why a work relationship is resolved. To say this differently, society and the economy thrive when companies are founded and have the opportunity to recruit new workers more easily. On the other hand, our policy wants Greece to converging with international and European labour protection rules rather than deviating. This is why the Ministry has chosen as its guide the revised European Social Charter. Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Opposition may devise shadows and recapture the truth around us. You cannot, however, hide the reality. Greece has returned for the good pages and the improvement of the economy, all reliable indicators testify. The cost of public borrowing - the best and most objective indication of how markets perceive the situation in our country - is deviating at a rapid pace. In the short term, we are lending for the first time at a negative interest rate. For the first time, our country has issued 15-year bonds, with the offer of seven and a half times the demand. And you know well why the 15-year bond is so important. Because the repayment period goes beyond the 2032 horizon, a landmark for the sustainability of the debt. And just the day before yesterday the ten-year government bond fell below 1%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I often hear the opposition claim that all we say in Greece is the result of a communication storm, a support that the government enjoys from the domestic media. Isn't that what you keep saying? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That we've found them with the domestic overlap and therefore present a virtual picture of what's going on in the country. Mr. Tsipras, I have here a very nice package with all the positive publications from foreign newspapers about the course of the Greek economy. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] I cannot imagine that we have the potential to influence them too, to write these positive elements about the Greek economy. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have not heard a single comment from you about the positive developments concerning the de-coupling of the country's borrowing costs, which, after all, benefits the whole country, it is not just our own faction of credit. Our economy is increasingly positive than rating houses. It is only two places from the investment grade. I set an ambitious target in the government's schedule seven months ago that Greece will return to investment in the first half of 2021. This objective will be implemented by this government. [[Sustained applause from the wing of the new Republic]] The economic confidence index is at the highest level of the last 12 years, six points - six points! - above the average of the euro area, while the growth of private deposits, over the last seven months, does not only demonstrate the confidence of the citizens in the banking system, it also strengthens the liquidity of the banks so that they can finally finance the real economy. Something that I think is worth highlighting, the real estate market, the real estate market returns to boom. They increased by 25% in building permits in the last six months. Real estate values, the increase in real estate prices may exceed 10% throughout 2019. This gives value to the real estate of all Greeks, because the property sector has always been levers for the growth of the Greek economy and next to the other indications makes our goal for 2.8% growth more realistic. The European Union has already revised its forecasts for the Greek economy yesterday. We believe that it will review them further, as the positive news from the economic path for 2020 will be added to the very good principle that we have already done. Look, we have come as a government determined to implement reforms, bold reforms, and to put an end to the dedication of recent years. In view of this, you, who are now bored with a four and a half-year government service, are cultivating fear of any change. Nothing more inaccurate. Only delay and inaction are seriously harming Greek society today. Our aim has been clear from the first moment: to break off from anemic economic growth, which was based on overtaxation. And the way to do this is to increase investment and income and reduce taxes, strengthen production and export and increase employment, particularly full employment. We were inherited by the previous government overtaxation of labour. We reduce it by starting with low-wages. You left us with the highest insurance contributions. We reduce them, starting with the full-time employees. We're already doing this in the insurance bill and we're going to continue over the next few years. Our economic perception has a strong social content. The course of the national economy must be reflected in the daily income of each household. However, growth is not achieved in the absence of the market. And she does not thrive without the advances of the world of work. Our choices, therefore, in the fields of both entrepreneurship and production are interconnected. As many times the state has attempted to play the role of a businessman, as in the case of LARCO, who is now struggling to stop being a black hole, healthy competition, the real economy, and at the end of history, workers have lost their lives. These are the great losers of these policies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And as many times governments mobilised economic activity with anachronistic over-regulations, social wealth was lost, jobs were lost. So our way is different. Ladies and gentlemen, I avoid talking too much with numbers. By focusing, however, on jobs, I will invoke some not to get tired, but to prove that in this case they reflect specific policies in two directions: the shielding of workers' incomes and the stimulation of employment through investment and, at the same time, protection of work with modern and effective practices. The worker is already relieved by the burden of taxes and contributions. Despite your opposite propaganda, dutyfree remained where they were and were naturally maintained and all the constant allowances to the weaker. The import tax rate, however, for incomes of up to EUR 10,000 from this government has been reduced from 22% to 9%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This government has reduced HPAI in households 22% average and 30% in weakest households. This government has already started to reduce VAT to some products, starting with drugs. As soon as yesterday, we tabled an amendment to reduce prices for expensive anticancer medicines and diagnostic radiopharmaceuticals. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, we have also voted for a very important amendment that no longer involves value-added institutions making donations to the public. This means that significant resources are released from institutions for further important public works. From the beginning of the year, our election commitment, the EUR 2,000 for every young child born in our homeland, begins. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, against the propaganda of counter-population that - allegedly - this extraordinary aid is compensated by the abolition of the reduction in contributions to women who have a child responded clearly to the Minister for Labour. I'm making his statement. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is no question of that. Please do not reinstate this argument in the public debate. The lower insurance contributions come to the framework of the measures to strengthen the employees' available income. At the same time, parallel tax reliefs for entrepreneurship already bring the first results. Four thousand eighty-five more small and medium-sized enterprises have been founded compared to the corresponding period last year. I'm filing the relevant table. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, as you know, we have already approved many important strategic investments. I will not list them. They are expected to add tens of thousands of new jobs in total. Their positive effects, however, will occur over the next few years. When a major strategic investment is launched, the jobs it can create will take twelve to eighteen months to start creating. In four years' time the positive effects of these large investments will be absolutely visible to the Greek society. In any case, these investments already act proliferationally and improve the country's overall image as an attractive investment destination that can again, after a decade of crisis, attract significant foreign capital. All of this outlines a policy which, at the same time, is pro-investing and pro-working. That's why we've always talked and we're still talking about growth for everyone. But also on the second front which you raise in your questions, the protection of work, much has been done in the last seven months. For the first time in Greece a register of infringement was introduced to control undeclared work, the breach of working hours and a clear and demarcated grid of sanctions. Now all employers and all workers of course know the burden of the crime and the penalty for them. For example, with the old system a bad employer would pay the same fine regardless of whether he would deprive some employees or all his staff. Now there is a penalty for any injustice to every worker and it is gradually increasing for every worker affected. When an illegality is detected in a local branch of a chain, the penalty will be for this workplace, instead of often multiplying on the number of company premises around the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the other hand, consistent employers will enter the white register and be rewarded with tax and insurance incentives. I'll say it again: Good bills make good friends. State and business relations are strictly defined. Our aim at the first moment was to strengthen permanent employment, not blind, rhetoric, often populist hunting for some blurred, bad, but always extremely abstract workload. Thus, the strict fine of EUR 10 500 for undeclared work, a fine that, for the first time, was imposed by this Minister for Labour to a previous New Democracy government, against major reactions at that time by employers' organisations, may be reduced if this worker is immediately hired under a full-time contract for at least one year. And it is no coincidence that the pay for any overrun of agreed working hours in parttime contracts has already been increased by 12% by that government. Why are we doing this? To encourage employers to turn parttime contracts into permanent ones. As for commitment to legality, let the mockery finally be stopped, because the checks carried out by this government, as evidenced by the evidence, which I have already tabled in the Minutes, are far more than the checks that you have carried out. The next large section comes in the next two months and concerns the ERGAN II system. The existing system is being upgraded by now incorporating digital monitoring of working time and the operation of the working card. The technology is extended to all levels, from the open register of trade unions and employers' organisations to electronic voting to the trade unions and the recording of overworking. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If people are scared, let them know. Transparency will reveal workers' worries and fakes, but also the violation of workers' rights and light will make dark intoxications and distortions of the past. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, a word on active employment policies, which are also enthusiastic in national regeneration, gaining a new direction. These actions should not be relevant for party friends' shells or for them to be activated on an opportunityal basis. On the contrary, they must focus on acquiring and certifying new skills, primarily digital ones, and those who monitor the relevant programmes of municipalities or bodies to acquire additional skills and increased capacity the next day to be absorbed into the labour market. So, a hundred and ten thousand of our unemployed fellow citizens are starting to train, train, specialize in order to obtain stable supplies for the next phase of their lives. I mention a few examples only of the projects, which will very soon be announced by the Ministry of Labour: Fifty-two thousand young people up to twenty-nine years enter training programmes in dynamic sectors, such as the digital green economy, agri-food and tourism. Thirty-six thousand five hundred men and women will be employed in public utilities. Three thousand disabled people will specialize in various fields. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Twenty-two thousand long-term unemployed will be absorbed in labour market integration. Five thousand women will be acquainted with the practices of modern entrepreneurship. Finally, two and a half thousand former prisoners will have the opportunity to return to society through work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Add thirty and a half thousand of our fellow citizens to them who will be following the OAU's new targeted programmes with emphasis mainly on the region. It will be a total of 225m euros and will be activated in the next few days. Employment policies cannot and should not be a rough balm in an open wound. It must be done to the extent that this is possible a permanent instrument to address the major problem of unemployment. In conclusion, I have chosen a great truth against a story that has been systematically distorted by the Opposition and I would call it the 'Syriza minimum wage', a story that deserves - I think - to remember it. In 2013, therefore, the minimum remuneration of a worker was established in Greece. I imagine, you remember that, Mrs. Gennamas, together we voted this law. As an opposition, what did you say, Mr. Tsipras? - for a working gorgeous, middle ages. You have, of course, voted against this regulation. As a government, you did not, of course, dismantle it either by a law or by an article, but you did not apply it. You forgot her. You could have already increased the minimum wage since 1 January 2017. You remembered it in the election to show it as a so-called offer of your own to the weaker ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u3	We increased him by 11%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u4	Yes, you raised him by 11%. If you raised him every year since 2017, 2018 and 2019, we would again be and the workers would have benefited in 2017 and 2018. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now you're asking us - what are you asking us? - if we implement a law that we voted on and you fought, then you ignored it and twisted it. This law, therefore, will be implemented by Law No 4172. The law provides. What does the law provide for? A specific process, depending on the economic situation. The Government discusses with all the social partners the minimum wage. On the basis of this consultation, the Minister of Labour is recommended to the Ministerial Council. When does that happen? The second fortnight of June shall take the relevant decision. I'm making the law. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] My commitment to an increase in gross national product, which should be linked directly to the increase in basic remuneration, is entirely valid. So be patient by the end of June when we have all the facts and can legislate with responsibility and realism. In the meantime, however, - and I close with it - if you are so interested in increasing the minimum wage, then help you also stimulate the development of the national economy that will allow it, rather than permanently jeopardise its course! Do what most Greeks do, instead of constantly sprinkling false concerns about the state of the economy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would advise you, if you can, finally get away from your past, which the citizens reminded you that they condemned in three elections. Otherwise, you will have been looking for a long time at the reasons why the citizens have turned your back and will need a lot of self-criticism pages in the text I am learning that you will discuss with the partners this weekend. Good courage, Mr. Tsipras, for the weekend you have in front of you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-one students and students and two school attendants from the 15th Municipal School of Acharnon. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is now being called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate - even with this brief procedure of Prime Minister's communications - I believe that this is crucial and very important, because we are discussing a crucial issue, in my view, not only for the workers, the working relations and the working order that should have been returned, but for the development and prospects of the economy, because, in our assessment, we cannot have sustainable growth, if we do not have fair growth, and if the workers, their labour force and their rights are not respected and there is no prospect of strengthening their income. The Prime Minister has started a speech which, in my view, is really out of place for those who are aware of what is happening in the workplace. He made an effort to make it look good. I'll answer everything he said. But it started with a poaching. He read - supposedly - questions that we put in the way he wanted. In the question I have actually put, I have recorded details of 'ERGAN'. I have not talked about an overall increase in unemployment, because it is obvious that the country - and the economy - is on a positive orbit, not what you say we could have. You spoke about the Commission's data. The Commission's figures disprove your election claims of 4% growth, even your allegations in the budget of 2.8% and land you at 2.4%. And worst of all, they predict that 2021 will have 2% growth rather than 4%, as you electionally claimed that you might bring through a policy that actually deregulations the labour market, because the core of your neoliberal perceptions is that the growth of the economy will come through the shrinking of labour rights and through wage steadfastness or also the reduction of wages. This is our basic ideological and political difference. So we did not see these seven months either the bulldozers in the Greek that would come after two weeks or the growth rates running at 4% or many good jobs. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Any comparison you make to reduce unemployment should be made with what you received in June 19, because in June 2019 unemployment was 17%, when on your day 28% had arrived. But, indeed, in the question we tabled, with a sincere stress we record the elements of 'ERGAN', which says that the seven months of July 2019-January 2020 is the worst in 2013 recorded in the 'ERGAN' system, with the loss of eighty-six thousand jobs and that in August you achieved a 57% part-time record and in October you achieved a new eighteen-year-old record, with a hundred and six thousand redundancies and part-time employment at 63%. Here's the evidence. I put it in the Minutes and it's at your disposal. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above information, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So leave the poaching and this candy all the time about alleged lies. You lied, cheated on the Greek people, feeding rabbits and stones in the election on growth and prosperity. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You were talking business for everyone and good jobs. Where are these jobs? Take a walk - you take a lot of walks, we learn your news, in the end we will learn from the "TripAdvisor" where you are going - on the market, not just excursions. Go talk to people, traders, craftsmen, shops, see what is the real picture in the economy. These festivals have been the worst since 2015, the worst holiday ever! Thirty percent fell into the market. Is that true, or is that a lie? Why did this happen? But that has happened, because, as much as it reduces profits tax - and from this it will benefit the very large companies that have great profits - if your policy is not a policy of strengthening active demand, which will stimulate consumption, if the minimum wage or average wage is not increased - because the increase in minimum wage also strengthens the average wage - if it does not fall on the hot money market, then that will be the result. We in 2018 from September to July, when the elections took place, gave EUR 2.5 billion. Only the social dividend was 800m euros, 1 billion was the extension of the 2019 budget, plus the measures we took in May. This money didn't go to the possessors and possessors. They went to those people, who 1 euro in their pockets, consume it. That is why the market has moved, and that is why, despite your magnificence about the growth that has come, over the blue sky, about the many well-paid slavery - which have never come but - the market is narrowing. Go talk to them. I am going to come back to this, however, perhaps in my second speech. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, the following: Our differences are fundamental differences, political and ideological. The core of neoliberal perception - and here I will not accuse you, Mr Mitsotakis, of cheating, because many of these things you have insinuated in the election campaign, you have been talking about a roller...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u7	It was red tape.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, we'll see if he was in the paperwork or he was in the workers' rights. I'll speak in detail now. So the core of your perception of neoliberal ideas is that the competitiveness of the Greek economy can be achieved by removing protective provisions for workers and by deregulation of the labour market. This will enable companies to make greater profits - that is what you say - and that is why incentives for new investments. I want to tell you that all of this is not new ideas. It's too old ideas. It is the classic recipe of the 1970s, which was the political guide to Thacher and Reagan, Great Britain and the United States, and later became a dominant concept in the developed world in the 1990s and 2000s, unfortunately through a consensual attitude and social democracy in this dominant neoliberal concept. And that perception was at the core of the memorials. This is the concept of the International Monetary Fund from the head to the fingernails. What were the positions of the International Monetary Fund? What were the memos in the country? That's right. Greece became an animal, an example of the implementation of a policy which, where implemented, did not result in the best case and at worst created enormous inequalities. What, then, involved these memorials? The reforms that you believe in, of course, very high dosage, concentrated, that is, aggressive wage cuts, abolishing the basic principles of collective bargaining, liberalisation of working hours and optimising the labour market. Where did these recipes lead? In the increase of inequalities, in the launching of 'black' and uninsured work, in the launching of unemployment, as I said before, at 28%, in wage cuts and in the creation of the generation of poor workers and, of course, in the fall of consumption, as I explained before, in a downward self-supported recession that led us where we were.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u9	That was the third memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u10	Now we'll tell what it was and what it wasn't. Thank you for interrupting me. Mr. Mitsotakis began to report on the increase in the minimum wage on SYRIZA and began to remember from 2013. You did not remember in 2012, the reduction of 22% by a law and an article and the introduction of the underpaid wage, this racist underpaid for young people! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I'll see you in detail, and if you're kind, don't interrupt me. Before leaving the memoranda, the SYRIZA government was obliged to be under strict supervision of the institutions, but in a constant battle - you will remember - in which we sought allies and support in Europe - we unfortunately did not have it in our country by the opposition at that time, but also by the trade unions - to restore collective bargaining, that is, to harmonise the institutional framework in our country with the corresponding European one. And you say ‘Why didn't you bring it in 2017’. Where did you live in 2017? Didn't we have troikas here and memoirs? The law that imposed us and you voted earlier provided that after the end of the memorandum the discussion on collective bargaining could be reopened. Do you forget that? And as soon as we got out of the memorials, we brought the law and proceeded to raise the minimum wage and restore collective bargaining. In the previous period, however, we were not sitting with our hands crossed. Any cracks we could find, any possibility of defending workers' rights, we did it. We supported the Labour Inspectorate. It was a ghost. You've turned it into a ghost again. We stepped up and tightened up the tests. For the first time, we imposed fines on major offenders, who, for some reasons that you probably know them better, were systematically violating the law without consequences, as in a magical way, no checks were carried out or when fines were imposed, these fines were deleted, while we voted and applied special provisions to combat 'black' and unpaid work, placing 'brain' on the employer's arbitrary. And after leaving the memorandum, and again unlike the creditors' pressures and cheques, we reversed the deregulation trend that was shaped by legislative intervention. The collective negotiations that you had abolished, we restored them. At the minimum wage we went to 11% increase - you reduced it by 22% - a reduction of under-subsidy, an extension of more than fifteen sectoral contracts covering at least two hundred and twenty thousand workers, and which led to increases in wages for tens of thousands of workers. We have taken steps to protect contract workers, we have adopted the right reason for dismissal, as is the case throughout Europe, and we have made targeted interventions in specific sectors where flexibility and arbitraryness were a norm, such as deliver workers, we have taken steps to keep working hours and pay overtime, which have led to a spectacular reduction in so-called unpaid work. That is why we have had the opportunity to have this rapid reduction in unemployment, but - something in my opinion is more important - after ten years the increase in average wages, not the minimum. In 2019, we had an increase of 4.6% in average wages. I now come to what you have just done, because the 'rotor' was neither bureaucratic nor the stumbling blocks in development. The "roller" was and is in labour rights. You have done eight "surgery" hits in the world of work, Mr Mitsotakis. First, the deterioration of the Labour Inspectorate. It's not just us. Read your friendly newspaper, "PHILTER" - I don't think you'll charge it to SYRIZA as well - which makes detailed reference to an article from the other day and wonders whether there is the Labour Inspectorate. You're talking about checks. What kind of checks are these? Like last night at Piraeus Bank where the administration was informed of the ex ante control and pushed out the workers before the auditors went? Is that the kind of check you do? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The next two blows came together, with a last-minute amendment, no matter what we were discussing in this House in August at the request of BSE, to what we all know. Well, I can't tell if BSE called you directly or if everything happened through Mr. Scortsu who was the man of BSE and now is your central minister, but all I know is that these requests were there a year and they were pushing us, but we told them that this is not going to be done by a SYRIZA government. What are these? The first is the abolition of the basis for dismissal of workers. This legislative framework applies throughout Europe. You abolished it. You have also abolished measures to protect contract workers. And not only have you done this through an amendment that is irrelevant, but you have not been ashamed to identify the justification for redundancies with a 'false' of workers and to legitimise the hardest and arbitrary employers' practices, because the new trick is now to violate the legality of subcontractors. The new trick of breaking legality and avoiding collective agreements is to build false contractors. Fourth blow, the dissolution of the institution of collective bargaining, with provision for the exclusion of the principle of prolongation and more favourable regulation of enterprises for no substantial reason, but for the creation of cheaper employment zones through local contracts, i.e. special economic zones of cheaper labour. You do what the IMF has failed to achieve, but it has been pursued. Maybe Mr. Paul Thompsen, who had these ideas and defended them with passion, retired, but his spirit is here. Tomsen retired, but Thatcher's here, it's in your hearts and souls. Their policies are here. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have given the Minister of Labour a white order to decide which companies will be able to apply the sectoral collective agreements, which companies will be able to reduce wages and gain an unfair competitive advantage, and what other undertakings will they not be able to comply with the legislation by giving higher wages. You gave the Minister that right. You don't know that? Ask him, he'll tell you. In any case, I ask: is that a liberal logic for how the market economy works? Fifth hit. You have abolished the workers' right to referral to arbitration. This is how you remove from the workers one of their most powerful negotiating weapons to force the employer into an agreement. Sixteen, with a ministerial decision, in secret, you reduced the fines for violations of labour law and increased the threshold for legal overtime by 60%. In short, if the Labour Inspectorate does his job - which does not do it from what it looks like - and put a fine on undeclared overtime, it will be less than fifteen times. To understand what this means, for our days at Piraeus Bank - which in the banking area is a very intense phenomenon, sitting the workers much longer than their working hours say and not paying overtime - we fined 1.6 million euros. No matter how hard it was for people to disobey it, the administration felt it, and the workers felt it. Do you know how much this fine would be today, if you went - why would you let them know before the checks took place - the APRD and viewed illegality? Instead of EUR 1.6 million, it would be EUR 100,000. That's reality. So in one area of infraction involving hundreds of thousands of workers, mainly young people - why is this the picture on the labour market today, being paid for four hours, but actually working six, seven, eight, ten hours or being paid for eight hours and working twelve hours or not? - you come and give the signal to employers to extend it further, to finish it, to reach the end of the deregulation. In fact, you ask them not to keep the hours, not to declare overtime. I come to Brain Drain and to what you have told us today to justify your incomprehensible decision not to renew a programme - which, of course, ends up, but you have every chance of renewing it - which concerns the fight against Brain Drain and five and a half thousand graduates, with one and two degrees, most of which cover key positions in the public sector. It is not an indefinite contract, but a fixed term. I assure you, this is an excellent programme. It is an excellent programme, because these children are scientists who must stay here to serve, not necessarily the public sector - I am not saying this - but they must be given a second chance, because the design of our own, which we announced, provided for the corresponding allocation in the OAED programmes, which you have drastically reduced. This is the eighth blow, that you have drastically reduced the OAED budget for programmes to combat unemployment. We had ensured a budget to be renewed for a year even later in the next intakes to have a molecule. Do you not realize that it is a major issue for the country to stop this leak of scientists abroad? You in fact - for a few million I repeat, it is no big amount - say to these people: 'There is no future for you, go abroad to find your future'. I really think you should review this view, see this again. The choices made there were not based on party criteria. They're done through interviews. I really want to ask you to see this issue again. It is about the new generation, the new scientists, it is about the future of the country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But what are the results of these seven months, of these choices and of the hits at the workplace? First of all, for the first time we have massive redundancies in the banks. We have not seen mass, collective redundancies since the republic in the banks. Twenty-four employees were fired from Piraeus Bank, in breach of the employees' agreement with the bank's administration, so that they would be transferred to another post on a voluntary basis. Instead of denouncing the redundancies, the government took the role of the bank's staff directorate, and the Ministry's Secretary-General itself took one of the workers to find a solution. Where'd that end up? The twenty - four redundancies remain and become more than a hundred voluntary departures. I invite you to compare: EUR 1.6 million fine from us at Piraeus Bank, a hundred twenty departures and redundancies on your day at Piraeus Bank. We have the same thing in other banks. Fifty rentals and contract workers were made redundant from July to today, with over twenty years of pre-service. And what was the position and attitude of the Ministry of Labour about this? In Kavala Fertilizers - where after your election, the charity climate of the new era prevailed - the company returned to illegal practices of the past, practices that had been cut off over our days, even blackmailing thirty-five redundancies employees to transfer them to Ghost companies with reduced wages and rights. The trick I was telling you before. In ELPE, contract workers are neither paid nor made redundant. They've become hostages to employers' mercy, and you're watching it. OTE has already begun the prom of redundancies, and from what we are told, workers' movements are being prepared in subsidiaries, without their will. You are legally abolishing the collective labour agreement in PPC for new entrants. A few days ago, you legally abolished the work regulations at the CBS, so that the employers would decide unilaterally for everything. In the tourism and food industry, after Mr Brutsi's deregulation, it does not extend and the sectoral convention is not mandatory, and this is why there are four hundred and four hundred hardworking workers exposed and uncovered. It's one of the most precarious professions: waiters, cooks, delivery. This is the new precariat, condemning insecurity with your signature. And you come here to say that the picture is positive, that we are going very well, that we have an excellent balance, that unemployment is falling. I'm closing up with the minimum wage thing. Mr. Mitsotakis, you need to take a clear position on this matter. You're telling us we're doing communal tricks and populism. What exactly do you mean? We, as soon as we got out of the memoranda, proceeded with the process, as provided for by the law, but at the same time we had a political will. The technocrats, as the law provides, proposed a 5%-10% increase, we legislated for an 11% increase, because that was our political will. And we also legislated to abolish the subordinate. In fact, at that time, BSE said 1% -2% should be the increase, and you did not take a position on how much the increase would be. And some media and some of you, you blamed us then that the 11% increase in minimum wage would dismantle the economy. No dissolution has been seen in the economy, nor in its growth rates, nor in consumption. We have seen the opposite. Election has come back to the Greek people and we said, as we increased 11%, we have 7.5% in 2020 and 7.5% in 2021, so that once the second cycle in 2021 has been completed and we return to 751 euros - which was the minimum wage before Mr Brutsis again led him back in 2012 to 22% reduction in 580 euros - and then to pass on to the social partners the opportunity to set the minimum wage by consultation. That is what we have proposed in an election, and we are bringing in a law proposal now. So when we were saying this in an election you were not able to tell us that it was populism, you were not out to tell us that it was unscientific. What did you come out to tell us? Relance, you did it then. You said: 7.5% will you increase in 2020? We're going to raise 8%. What did you say? Twice the growth, you said. You said: 4% will be growth in 2020 -- supposedly -- 8% wage growth, more than SYRIZA will increase us. That's what you said. You weren't saying that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Okay, it's not 4% growth, it's 2.8%. So make a commitment today that after the end of the process that will begin, the minimum wage will be increased to 5.6%, twice the rate of growth provided for in the budget. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Make a commitment, or don't tell us here who's trusted and who's not the trustworthy, who's the liar and who's not. Things are data. And I shall end, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u11	Yes, Mr President, because you are in danger of speaking more than the Prime Minister, and today is the Prime Minister's announcement day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u12	I never do that, ever. I shall conclude, Mr President, and you will also have a commitment. You brought an allowance, we voted for it, for new mothers, a birth allowance. It's right, it's in the right direction. One of the biggest problems in the country is demographics. Another gentleman sitting next to the gentleman sitting next to you and now went to another ministry - did it very well where he was and he goes to save the refugee now! - it brought a decision on the basis of which it will not apply, says, from 1-1-2017-, but in the end it takes back retrospectiveness - the payment of reduced insurance contributions from mothers in the first year after birth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u13	Don't expose yourself, Your Honor. It was Karugalos who abolished...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u14	Yeah, yeah, okay, I know. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u15	Katrugalos did this, we talked about it yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u16	Yeah, well, say that. Let's talk about it. You have made a decision here, I will put it in the Minutes - it has the signature of Mr Mitarakis, the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs at that time. It cannot abolish something that is abolished, abolishes something that is valid, which was a given to the SYRIZA government. Stop it! And finally, there's no need for the New Democracy, Mr. Kegeroglu. He's got a captain to answer. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I make the decision in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You cannot, on the one hand, say that we must deal with the demographic problem and, on the other, bring to the moth-driven arrangements that abolish any facilities that workers mothers have to pay less insurance contributions. So you must decide whether you are going to be with these powerful people who will make it easier for them or will finally bring something that will make it easier for the world of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the "World Democracy Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the Ionian School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And wish Mr Katrugalo also for his name mentioned. Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can only begin by saying that if what we heard last hour from the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility had actually been done over the last four and a half years by the one and the previous eight months by the Prime Minister, we would have had nothing to discuss here today. Everything would be broken! It wouldn't be a problem. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] In the meantime, it seems fortunately that after all the years of the memoranda Mr Tsipras came and with an article and with a law he abolished everything! We won't forget that. It's left unforgettable to the Greek people. There is no need for any help from the New Democracy beyond the one it has provided for all these years, because it has opened the way to return this blue necklace to all of Greece, which slowly and every day unfolds its conservative agenda. Listen, Prime Minister, despite what you said, the figures are revealing and there are three basic elements showing what the reality is today for the workers and the unemployed in Greece. First element: a million thirty thousand unemployed registered in the OAED. The unemployment rate of young people exceeds 35%. It's a nightmare number! And no one can say from this seat satisfied. And don't tell me again that unemployment is falling, because 57% of the new jobs are in flexible forms of employment, exactly what happened with the previous government and we have constantly denounced them. What's going on? You share one job in two. And don't forget that in December, for your day, redundancies were more than recruits. Secondly, the poor workers are Greece's new major problem with unemployment. Seven hundred thousand workers receive a gross monthly salary below EUR 700 - it is about 40% of the workers - and half of them get less than 500 euros. Two out of three citizens, according to BSE figures, have no money to make for the next three months. That is why there are unpaid accounts and the tax debts are constantly increasing. Under these conditions the Brain Drain continues, the new generation leaves the place. And no development plan - I assure you - will not succeed without this valuable human potential, which we must finally restrain at last at our place. It does not deal with this phenomenon with subsidisation of 500 jobs. We have heard you today talk about the famous tax reliefs. They do not concern the majority of workers. On the contrary, what are you doing? You softly supported not business, but dividends and profits of entrepreneurs horizontally. And there are no connections between your predictions and your arrangements with investments or the creation of new jobs. At the same time, employees and pensioners are invited to pay over EUR 323 million in taxes and EUR 726 million more for VAT and excise duties! This is the situation, Prime Minister. And I really wonder: Is this your view of normality? Is that what you had in mind, the workers being poor and the unemployed being in no way prospective? You will, of course, tell us that this situation is not today or that it is the crisis that is the fault of SYRIZA that it is the international problem. Yes, sir. Clearly, SYRIZA has enormous responsibilities that, with his culminating choices, led to the third, harder and unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum and put the Greek people into new adventures. In fact, we have not seen any essential self-criticism on their part. Everything is well burned! However, these are not an alibi to your own government, why was all this known and why? Because the reality is that your government is not interested in the workers and the unemployed, it only takes care of the few and the strong, and, supposedly, let the market solve all the problems on its own. Mr. Mitsotakis, model of development based on cheap and devalued work is doomed to fail. It leads workers to insecurity and the unemployed to despair. In the time available, because I am not used to overcoming time, I summarily mention the ten wounds that your policy has accumulated for the workers and the unemployed. First, you sit down the wages and especially the minimum wage. The economy is not going to get ahead if it does not improve available income and especially low wages. The European countries, Mr Mitsotakis, which are developing dynamically, are those which do not rely on cheap work, but on the well-trained and decently paid human resources. This is the model we have to have as a country. And because there was too much discussion about the underpaid wages and the years of the memorials: Yes, indeed, it was a Memorandum obligation. But SYRIZA then established him, permanently established him today - both listen! - Stop this Oriental bazaar three over, three down for the lower wage. This is a glorious field! Lower wages can and must be increased, but how? Through the free collective negotiations of the social partners. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] They know their potential, they can decide. We, as a movement of change only this proposal for a law, are prepared to vote and I remind you that we have already tabled it. Well, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Acts now, if you really want to go to a normality! The unemployment benefit, he says, this year will run from EUR 399 to EUR 409. In short, the permanentization of poverty. Secondly, you are undermining sectoral collective agreements. The law that you voted for labour law by law on the protection of workers' rights has changed into a law facilitating the poor employer. You encourage unfair competition towards contract-respecting employers. The results, Prime Minister, are already visible. You refuse to declare the collective agreements compulsory in food and in the tourist shops leaving four hundred thousand workers in the air. Indeed, they are workers who are not well paid, high-paid. We're mostly talking about waiters and delivers. We have told you many times, we have raised the issue and no answer has been received so far. Thirdly, you are strengthening employers' arbitrariness to the detriment of labour rights. They appall cases of violation of labour rights, even of sanitary and safety conditions. Undeclared and implied work is blossoming. Large companies are allowed to operate unconsciously by unfair competition at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. Even the market figures for the holidays that went through are revealing. The tire was raised, but what companies? The big and the multinationals. Small and medium-sized people saw their turnover shrinking. That's where your policy leads. Of course, the Ministry of Labour is making backs in the employer's unprecedented and unauthorized games in the Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry. It continues the previous government's tactics in this respect, and Mr Tsipras has now said great words. For his day he left all of this. We shall be coming back to the matter, because it is a great and very serious subject. Public schools cleaners continue to work in unacceptable conditions, very low wages, with no licenses and no employment rights. If they get sick, even one day, they have to find someone to replace them if they accept the school and the mayor. It is time for an end, a definitive end to this hostage, and for their contracts to be converted into an indefinite period of time. Fourth issue. You're abandoning the unemployed in their luck. The OAED presents profits that are transferred to the general government's surpluses, i.e. a basket without bottom. And no modern and innovative programs are being proclaimed. We have heard some announcements today, see how they will be implemented. But I would like to point out here that we have fought a great deal and we are pressing you. Unfortunately, you constantly refuse to renew these five and a half thousand young scientists, who have breathed the public and have helped to modernise public services to the citizens. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And the reduction in the contributions you have announced will still be paid by the unemployed. Fifth point. No concern for the protection of workers and their successful response to the technological revolution. Whoever survives. The other permanently unemployed, Prime Minister, while other European countries are struggling to increase knowledge and training and to restructure employment relations and even discussing working time reductions. Here, everything in their luck, whoever can bear! Sixth point. The Katorugalou law lives and reigns with the makeup that you make of it. The same substitution coefficients, with ‘remunerations’ only for the adaptation to the decisions of the Council of State. No care for the normal, actual thirteenth pension for all pensioners, as we are proposing, no care to restore the CSCE, no care to restore injustices in disability and widowhood pensions. Seventh point. Social infrastructure continues to be degraded. The design for the delivery of public hospitals to private individuals is well kept. You all know what is going on in public hospitals, how badly patients, relatives and employees are suffering, how great shortages still exist and the government's only concern today is to look for "bricks" to turn hospitals into private legal entities. A unique objective, therefore, without any plan, without any study, to deliver public health to the great private interests. Eighth point. The trade unions are treated as an enemy. The social dialogue has entered the freezer. Not even for the changes in insurance. And, of course, there is also an operation to seize the mobilizations by the well-known "fashioned" of the New Democracy and Maximos. It took our own pressure to seriously deal with redundancies at Piraeus Bank. The pain has now taken you, but we were running to stop them in order to be suspended, as in the 'COSMOTE'. Ninth point. The unemployed, the low-wage people, who are unable to pay their loans, are in danger of losing their first home from auctions, and of course the Minister responsible has undertaken to prepare the ground because the funds and their interests must be protected and the protection of the first residence of the weak borrowers must be against the market. Tenth point. A flagrant industry, the 'LARCO', is put into special liquidation, without preparation to ensure sustainability, without guaranteeing the employment of workers and, indeed, when? At the same time as an international increase in nickel prices is expected. I will return to my dentology in LARCO, since you have also referred, Prime Minister, because it is worth talking about her history and how the problems in LARCO began. So these are the ten wounds, the ten blows from your policy in the world of work. The workers, the unemployed, the pensioners are the ones who suffer them. We do not expect you, Prime Minister, and your resignation, to give substantial solutions. You have always been against their interests and their working rights. We, the great democratic progressive party, with a long history in particular in this area, are against these options. Our aim is to be the dismantling of the weakest, and that is what we will do in this case. The Change Movement to defend the rights of workers, the unemployed, the retired and at the same time, with alternative proposals and solutions, will be at the forefront of developing genuinely for everyone so that everyone, regardless of what position it has in the production process, can feel security for tomorrow and dignity for his life. That's our target. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u19	Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u20	Prime Minister, in all your internal and external interventions, you and your ministers are talking about the new Greece, about Greece which is changing, for Greece, for growth, for prosperity. Of course, what you describe has nothing to do with what workers themselves experience. It's a virtual reality. What's the real situation? Intensification of work, the glaring of flexible forms of work, fixed-term contracts, and new recruitments, stable employment relationships, the escalation of rental and contraction work, the total lack of health, safety, which has also led to an unprecedented increase in occupational accidents and fatalities in industry, in almost all sectors. In just a few months you have either voted for or launched new aggressive measures in the field of labour and trade rights in the field of social security. You have abolished the sectoral agreements, providing for even more exceptions that the employer can use, while turning your Minister of Labour into an absolute ruler, which may prohibit the unilateral recourse of workers to arbitration and move forward with measures that facilitate the infamous flexibility. In collective agreements both you and the previous government maintained and extended the whole anti-corruption framework that leaves the vast majority of workers, almost nine out of ten, except for any collective labour agreement. You have kept SYRIZA's circular for sectoral contracts, where every employer is given the absolute right to move, the right to move or block the process of proclamation of a sectoral contract as compulsory. You set the pretext for an undertaking to enter the economic situation as an exemption, which they themselves will be able to invoke whenever and when they want. In this way, Halos' academy opens up for the non-implementation of collective agreements and the squeeze of wages to the minimum. Do you know exactly what you said before in your prototype, Mr. Mitsotakis, or does he just tell you what Mr. Brutsis, the Minister of Labour and he exposes you? In fact, it has been signed after twelve years between workers and employers and instead of having the Ministry declared it compulsory as having to do so, you are putting insuperable obstacles to keeping this contract on paper. What kind of obstacles? Firstly, you ask the workers themselves for a technical study that the competitiveness of enterprises is not affected. Secondly, when workers get into this process to build up the study, you don't give them the evidence. Thirdly, even when they finally submit this study to you, you have the possibility of exempting businesses from the sectoral contract. If you just met the food federation yourself, as I met it, you'd be told all that. Furthermore, you have now made sure to strengthen repression by means of provisions that break trade union action and the right to strike with measures to the detriment of the unions itself. In insurance, governments build on each other's structure. That is why the Minister for Labour recently said that, by adopting the new law on insurance, a major reform of insurance will be completed by the governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. In fact, the Government of New Democracy does not bring any new law or much more, it says, abolishes the Katorugalou law, as was your pre-election commitment. You literally apply the Katrugalu law, trying to overcome any loopholes that he had created. The architectural content of this law remains unchanged. This law was up to our days the completion of the reinsurance attack, as it incorporated all overturns to the detriment of insured and retired persons. And here, of course, we should also welcome Mrs Gennimata to the adoption, even in the words, of the JRC's position. That's right, the Katorugalo - Brutsi law is. It's been hairy for a long time now that our language has told you, of course, along with the passes to Mr. Katorugalo. Others. Today the New Democracy comes to strengthen the spirit and body of this law, to open the way to a new raid with the three pillars of the Pinochet system, where the pension will be broken into a small section that will guarantee the state - and this will always be in a sect, based on the competitiveness of the economy - the so-called national pension, and from there, there will be a reward pension, based on the risk and stock market gambling. Pensions will now be classified as stock exchange products and invested in terms of low, medium and high risk. These days, the government propaganda has been culminated in order to disintegrate this reinsurance abortion. In broadcasts and headlines, the Minister of Labour himself, government officials, along with the contribution of known experts, are talking about increases to thirty-five and forty-two years of insurance at the wages of 1,000 and 2 000 euros. You have created a false reality to sell your business, to hand over beer rather than insurance insurance companies to various health businessmen. You press on the ignorance of young workers in particular, so that the insurance is treated as a difficult puzzle, so that the workers cannot deal with it while sending them to the arms of all these caradic predators. Answer, however, from now on: What new worker who began his working life in the years of the crisis - or even before - who is at the most productive age will be able to have forty years of work and, indeed, insured? Who will have thirty-five years of work when registered unemployment over the years is stable over a million? Where will these workers find the badges so they can catch the norms that you're braggingly showing up? Which young worker who has eaten redundancies with the spoon, who has worked on all forms of flexible work and wandered from work to work, will have the twelve thousand badges for which you announce increases? The pension comes out of the rates that each government forms over the years of insurance and, in addition, pensions. What pension and what benefits will the workers who have seen in one night the minimum wage at EUR 586 which young workers are paid for at EUR 430? What pension will workers who have been working for all these years as quadrants and who get a salary of up to 250 euros? You have created the ground so that the insurance is not the right and obligation of the state, but a commodity that will be paid by anyone who has it, no matter how much he has. In industrial relations the absolute chaos prevails. It is chaos for workers, but heaven, of course, for business groups, to whom you are signalling investment, offering cheap, hardworking labour power. By the way, since you recently visited Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates in search of investors, the last investor from these countries at Elefsina and Scaramaga left, as you know, a few million feuds to the workers. I mention this to have a real picture of what kind these infamous investors are. A characteristic example of the days, the full freedom they acquire, legally or in the vicinity, the various groups to open up their shops on Sundays. The inclusion of the discount village in Spata with a ministerial decision of the New Democracy on the law of SYRIZA, which provides for the opening of the shops thirty-two Sundays a year, in a series of areas of Attica and Thessaloniki, the announcement of the employer's "JUMBO" that it is moving to the opening of its stores in Pieria and Preveza all Sundays of the year, all this being the last rings in the attack that has been unfolding with methodically over many years at the expense of the Sunday holiday. Especially in trade, food and tourism, these developments tie with the take-off of flexibility and underemployment with daily hours and weekly hours of work to flexibly and without any burden on employers, especially workers, to be on their feet from morning to night. These are the results of the much-discussed work time arrangement. These are supported by all your powers, creating conditions of hell in the new couples, in every working folk family. At the same time, the full immunity enjoyed by the employer is translated into new employers' crimes, as the list of accidents goes away from which the shortcomings in health and safety measures are manifested in the most tragic way. Above all, they are the responsibility of governments and employers who have turned the workplaces into places where the worker plays his health and his own life a crown of letters. Only in the last ten days we have had serious injuries, mutilations, and even deaths that have broken families in Volos, Nafplion, Chalkida, Xanthi, Larymna, Yannina, PPC, to large commercial enterprises that the Ministry's services refuse to control. From the "LARCO" you want to close now, which on the eve of the great mobilisation lost one more worker, up to the recent accident in the refineries of "MOTOR OIL", where four workers were seriously injured by explosions, workplaces have become an infinite arena without basic safety and hygiene rules. The freedom enjoyed by employers gives air to the sails of employers' violence. Even workers who are shot, we see, when they claim to be hired. And because you're all dating and pretending to be innocent pigeons and that you've been caught and pain for the workers, the truth that all workers know is: Every next government, not only did it not abolish the main anti-corruption legislation of the previous one, but it also put its own lira on them. See only in recent years: the Brutsis Act on minimum wage has been adopted by the SYRIZA Government and is now continuing again by the Government of New Democracy. The Katorugalou Act incorporated all the reinsurance reforms of PASOK and New Democracy and is now further extended by the Government of New Democracy. The Sanctions Act was extended by the Government of the New Democracy. The abolition of the Sunday holiday began with eight Sundays from New Democracy and PASOK before, went to thirty-two with SYRIZA and expanded again with the Government now of the New Democracy. And the list isn't over. So who are you working for? Here's no halves or tricks and different lines. Tell us here and now when you will bring the minimum wage back to EUR 751, which must also form the basis for discussion of increases in all sectors. You can tell us here and now when you will leave the collective bargaining free. You are the ones who cling to all the declines in the power and freedom of the market, you have chained the free collective bargaining of workers. The crisis is going through, you say, back to good now and we've developed. You say today what this development is like and it will be for everyone. Let us see the budget that you tabled in 2020. What does this year's budget say? Development of the economy of 2.5%. Who produces this growth? The workers. What assessment, however, is made of the wages of employees in the budget? To 1.2%. But this increase is also fictitious, because, in fact, if we take account of the enlargement of the tax base, as you call the tax base, that is, if we take into account cuts in social benefits, health, education, welfare, their costs are transferred to employees, if we take into account the rise in prices in basic kinds, we ultimately have rather a reduction in wages even though it is recorded for the second year of growth. Here, too, is the same course as the wages in almost all the countries of the European Union. This is baptized "normality" by you. That is why, whenever workers claim to increase, a government is always thrown away and says: 'Not in any advanced country are they'. The European Union seeks to maintain its position, that is to say, its monopolistic groups based in its Member States at a time of major reclassification and competition, see the USA, China, etc. This competition does not have a setback, nor can it be curtailed by anyone, even if it has the best of intentions. Of course, neither do you nor SYRIZA have the best intentions. In any case, we call it a hypothetically, for the sake of discussion. Your development also means closure of enterprises such as LARCO. And from this step once again, as the day before, we join with the voice of the workers there and demand funding and responsibility, planning and control of the modernisation of the business, its further development, in accordance with its enormous real potential, the construction of a stainless steel unit where thousands of new jobs will be developed around it, the safeguarding of its business, the safeguarding of all jobs, the safeguarding of workers' acquired rights through the signing of a contract, the abolition of the contractor's slavery, substantial safety measures at work. Similarly, we support workers' struggles and claims in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry. Under the government's responsibility, the factory, which is the country's only composting industry, with all workers, with full working rights, with permanent fixed work, with a collective agreement, at least as provided for by the 2009 Agency, health, safety and safety measures, and measures to limit environmental pollution and the safety of installations, must continue to operate uninterruptedly. We won't play the game you want. We will not criticise you for other parties such as SYRIZA, for example, taking anti-development measures. Development measures, except that these development measures concern few, their profits and their benefits. This capitalist development cannot, nor can, of course, be a development for everyone, because this development is galldding as much as injustice is growing to the detriment of many. The struggles currently under way give an answer to the Government of New Democracy, which, with the whip of widespread repression along with the carrot, of course, believes that it will end with the workers' struggles, will be able to impose implicity on the workplace. Multiformal racing mobilisations create upwards, create racing optimism, not to pass defeat, fatalism, to strengthen overall the claimant race from below, from thousands of cleaners to schools and other workplaces that remain hostages of the governments to workers who are struggling today to have their jobs, not to be fired, who are struggling for wage increases, for a single contract, such as OTE, to banks, to dozens of other workplaces. These are all racing beacons. These struggles at this time show the strength that the labour union itself can gain, its organisations against the policy that breaks down labour security rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuba. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the Hellenic High School of Düsseldorf. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Today I don't want to talk. It's not worth talking. Seventy people we're in here. The Prime Minister was talking. We were two hundred fifty. The Prime Minister's gone now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u23	Here's the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u24	It doesn't matter. Look at the colleagues. It's not a matter of Prime Minister. Relax. Look around you, next to you, right and left I'm telling you. We have a very important issue for Greek society, for employment. And most colleagues are not here, or the Presidents of the parties too. In other words, by courtesy - not bourgeois, because some become bourgeois, they are not bourgeois - all the leaders should be here. I don't know how you see it. That's why we're getting paid in here. Some people get wages. I'm not talking, I repeat, don't go on. See right and left, I told you. That is not what some in the New Democracy understand. And I stop here 'cause there are kids from Dusseldorf. I was born in Essen, immigrant, son of immigrant. I know the love they have for Greece, not to disappoint them at the first moment, because they will be more sad. But I will be completely different from the other leaders, because we have heard reports of ideas, and I say it with full knowledge of what I am saying. I have not heard any basic proposals, I have heard only opposition, theory and pictology, and everyone has said their own party line, without any suggestion to the government, regardless of whether it is heard, whether it is accepted, whether it is accepted and implemented by any government. If, at some point, the political system operates in this way and acts constructively, not only in opposition, party, then our country can have a future. And I say it in every direction. Prime Minister, I am sorry, but today you have mixed up truth with lies, you have said half the truths, you have said some truths and what remains - I will tell you so, to understand - in my logic is that half the truth is a lie. And I'll give you the evidence one by one. You're saying you've reduced HISBIA. Good! Who imposed him? You imposed him! It's what we're talking about, it's like the joke with Hodja and the living things he put in his house that he finally made a living, he broke up too. So you have taxed, taxed, taxed, done something very simple. And I'm going to explain that what you're saying is not true, because we're going to have increases again. I'll prove it to you in a while. I have listened with great pleasure to the Prime Minister speaking about the production of wealth. She's the crown of our program. He talked about producing new wealth. As we call 'New Democracy', this is what they call 'production of new wealth'. We call 'production of wealth'. Of course, it is not possible to produce wealth with strong taxation. Let's get this straight on our minds. There will never be a production of wealth with strong taxation. Of course, it's not just this pathogen, it's other pathogens in the Greek economy. He told us that business increased. He also gave us evidence if I'm not mistaken. If you think business is business, you're the coffee bar in the neighborhood, you're wrong. If you consider the Sullivan firm to be a small business, it is neither an investment nor a production of wealth. It's a service provision. And to remind some of you that I expect the Prime Minister to tell us what kind of business has been done, because there is a distribution. Being done at 70 percent and 80% coffee bar doesn't give me an investment. Are we going to make our kids all the deliades? Is that what you want to do with it? Or round cutters? To be serious, because when we talk about investment, we're talking about investment. You did the competition - he says, listen to where I heard SYRIZA - the two "large" crashed on who had better police at the Labour Inspectorate. In other words, listen to your logic: 'We...' - he says - 'we did more controls'. 'No...' - says - 'We did more checks'. 'No, you lied, we did it'. Have you wondered why every small and medium-sized businessman is trying not to tell the worker? I'll tell you why I have workers. Because very simply the contributions are multiple, too hard for an employer. It pays huge contributions and, of course, the employee does not have the benefit he should have with this contribution. If I, in other words, were to secure my employee in a private security, he would have a better hospital than he has now that the worker is waiting in line and would also have a sack to go through if the illegal immigrants with the NGO don't go through. First they pass and then the Greeks pass. So I'm trying to tell you that it's not just a phenomenon in which we make a review, we do macroscopic - if you want - treatment. No, if there are no fields in Greek society and the economy, the place will never go ahead. I will give an example, and we will all have to go through it. In 2009 Greece was dominating the Balkans. It is well known, we all said that, we had made banks, investments and so on. In 2009, our country - listen a little! - he had EUR 120 billion more than Romania's GDP. Today there are 20 billion euros less than Romania. Do you understand the number? In 2009 we had a GDP of more than EUR 120 billion, higher than Romania. Today this Romania is spending 20 billion euros on GDP. And he's talking to me about development, the Prime Minister, who's not here. And Tsipras talks to me about four and a half years' success, which he's not here. These are the successful ones, because I do not forget that the New Democracy has ruled and that the Prime Minister was a minister of those governments that led Greece to bankruptcy. It does not start in July 2019 the political history and the route of some people, because if you're going to have a political Alzheimer's, we didn't. We remember who was Minister and that many of you were Ministers and led the Greek economy to the cliff. I didn't drive her. Your choices led to it. I will give you more examples. Do you know about the red private debt, the private debt? Everyone is talking about Greece's debt and nobody is talking about the greatest problem of an economy worldwide for those who know economical first-year students. You know what, gentlemen, the first-year student of economic studies says? It says that the country's biggest problem is private debt, because public debt has many countries. Private debt, therefore - in other words, private individuals - in 2009 was 10% of GDP. Today it is 170% of GDP, our private debt, that is, everyone owes it. You may not owe, at any rate, but many owe. You owe your party some loans. And to tell the Prime Minister, this is where Mr. Stavros told us something very strange. He said that "LARCO" is sold and one of the reasons for the sale is that Piraeus reported the loan. If I'm not mistaken in New Democracy, Piraeus reported the loan. Are you going to privatize the New Democracy or dive it? What are you talking about in here? What are we talking about in here? Instead of keeping our productive tissue upright, we're constantly looking for ways to saw this tissue. I heard something incredible from the Prime Minister. I guess he doesn't know financially. I don't know what our Prime Minister has learned in America, but he said that the state cannot be an investor. Isn't that what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u25	Entrepreneur, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u26	He said the state can't be an entrepreneur. That's a good reason! Then, ladies and gentlemen, is 'COSCO' not state? The ‘FRAPORT’ is not state? "ENI" isn't state? The company that took the transport railroad here in Greece isn't an Austrian state company? They can be businessmen, they can make money! Greece cannot be an entrepreneur! You're wrong, gentlemen! And tell you what this is all about? You put all party directors and consultant presidents in there with 10,000 euros or 20,000 euros! And now you're doing it in HSY! You got me a guy with 128,000 euros a salary, now that we're talking! He's getting 128,000 euros a man's salary! Written in the press. Is that possible? This is how the ECJs went bankrupt. How did the ECJs go bankrupt? Like that all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u27	SYRIZA's in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u28	I don't care either SYRIZA or New Democracy. You both ruled. They ruled for four and a half years and also ask for the change from above and you are twenty more and you are not telling the truth to the Greek people! I am therefore trying to tell you that the state can be a businessman, as long as it has leadership that in its mind can increase our country's Gross National Product. To tell you with very simple words to understand, 'COSCO', 'FRAPORT' or 'ENI' cannot win' - and people are doing well because they are entrepreneurs, and I am a businessman - that is to say, the state-owned companies in foreign countries and we are saying that the state cannot be an entrepreneur! Hey, what can the state be? Manager of the building?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u29	ELPE is a state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u30	Listen, listen. That's where we're wrong again. I want you to understand some - because the important thing is - that when you appoint me as your CEO, your party failure executive, who was a stateman, you have a problem with the management of the company. Unfortunately, this has been happening for forty years. It is not the case at present. From 1974 onwards, the pillaging of the TECs began like this. He put an unsuccessful MP who was, for example, a lawyer, president at the ECHO. The others went underneath, the gold - carpets, the lams, they fooled him, they did what they did and, finally, the CPO collapsed. That's the reality. Don't be fooled. But, in order for you and you to alleviate the party clientele, you have demolished a whole Greece! And at some point, so we don't fool ourselves - I say it about PASOK - because you ruled too. That's the problem, and we need to change it now, because it's our last hope. I repeat that the Prime Minister is not here again. I'm not gonna stay here and listen to his denture. I won't sit either, because even by civil courtesy people don't understand. We will sit down and listen to all the political leaders, because that is the obligation of Greek politicians. One day we're all here together. One day! There are people who are here every day, but one day we're all here. I mean, then, if we do not realize that we need to change the paths of the past, we are not going to go ahead. A man who is a businessman, who has business and knows what "business" means. You cannot say that the state cannot be an entrepreneur. You are wrong, you are mistaken, because there are infinite examples of states which are also entrepreneurs. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] When Mrs Merkel came here - not Antonis Samaras - had come with her thirty entrepreneurs, and Mercedes and Volkswagen. They're all here. That's how the States work. The Prime Ministers or the President-in-Office of the Council - it may sound strange - are the 'dealers' of companies to increase their GDP, as does Trump selling weapons and planes. Understood. So let's go to the next one. As for unemployment, I will not say it. Request ELSTAT's logging. ELSTAT has led us to the memorials, ladies and gentlemen, some types of George, so that we do not forget ourselves. That's where the big cook was, Mr. Loverdos. It's OAED. In ELSTAT, and with an hour's work, you don't get to be unemployed. That's what we need to know. It's one of the basics. So when you tell me "ELSTAT", even one hour to work a week, he is not unemployed during ELSTAT. It's OAED. The unemployed are millions. Here's the list from the OAED. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. We must therefore understand that we cannot constantly baptise fish, meat. We cannot make fun of the Greek people. It can't be done. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the list mentioned above, which is located in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Prime Minister came and said about the five thousand SYRIZA workers. SYRIZA appointed them, he says. Well, SYRIZA made a criminal mistake. Will you implement it? Well, then the continuity of the state will be done with mistakes all the time. It is probably wrong to see the Prime Minister as a follow-up to the state. The continuation of the state does not mean 'implementing the wrongs'. It means I'm correcting the mistakes and changing things. That means politics. Otherwise we're out of place and time. And he can't talk about appointments to SYRIZA when they have suited the securit who was outside the American Embassy and made him the Chief of S.H.I.E.L.D. Are we kidding? They wanted that poor german from the Trikala to be chaired in the hospital! So you cannot speak of assignments. It's all on the move. And the Prime Minister came here to show me the articles of the foreign press, that they are bilirums. That's why today, instead of throwing rain, he's throwing money. Because strangers in the international press say we're doing good in the economy! So I'll tell you what 'good economics' means and you'll understand. He told us about increasing exports. I therefore say, Mr Loverdo, my dear colleague, that we do not understand what 'economy' means. There's nothing to tell me about the increase in exports. Do you know why? Because all raw materials are imported. If a product worth 100 euros is produced - when raw materials are imported, because I produce products - my imported raw material costs 75 euros, I'm done! I don't have any exports. If you don't have the raw material - Mr. Koutsoubas said about steelworks and he's right, he's not here too, it's okay - it's never gonna happen, but exports will never add you to the Gross National Product. That's a fake account. It is ‘creative accounting’. And to say something about the 2,000 euros for every child. Look, for me it's very important to understand what it means. Demographically not solved with aspirins. I'll tell you one thing: if anyone who's here, who's suddenly here, the last seven, eight, I give him 2,000 euros to give birth, not even for diapers! If you are going to motivate us to solve demographics, copy successful recipes. Hungary has succeeded. He increased births in five years. He, however, gave real motives. What you're doing is giving it to Ibrahim and Hassan, because they're being born. The Greek is giving birth to a child, they are giving birth to seven. In Chalkida last month seven children of Muslims, illegal immigrants and two Greeks were born. The way we go, the two grand will only be taken by the strangers. Let's go to the real economy now. So listen. He told us about new programs and new posts. And what did he say? For the municipalities. Is that a production of wealth? Is this a reformist government? The Minister doesn't even listen to me. It doesn't matter. It's none of my business. I'll say what I have to say. If you think that nominations in public or municipality, the war of some "ours" through one or two years of programs, are a solution to the economic problem of the country, you are wrong. This is called ‘the provision of services’. Lesson first-year students. Another is the production of wealth, another is the provision of a service to the economy. It's completely different things. Let some people figure it out. I understand it not because I studied economics, but because I'm in business, I'm in the economy. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the work he has put into it. What can I say about HICPIAL? You say that you are reducing ENPHIA, but with the increase of objective values it will cost the Greek more, as the objective values will affect twenty more taxes. But that's not what you're saying. You say, 'We'll cut off the ENPIA'. You do not tell the Greek, "we increase the objective values, so you will pay more". I mean, "to burn you, Yannis, to lure you honey." I'm not saying that for Mr. Varoufakis. I'm saying it in general. That's what the proverb says. Let's go to the rest. Where should I start? Our proposal, if you really want to be a government serious and reformist, is as simple as this: a maximum wage for Greek officials, whoever they are. Let it be three times the base. In other words, it cannot be taken to the EEAS, as I said before, 120,000 euros, cannot be taken by the others at the ECEBS 7.000, 8.000 or 3.000 or 4,000 or 5,000 wages. It'll take 1,200, 1,300. Why would he make that kind of money? Put a cap and see how many of these rodents, the failed MPs you put and now appoint, will run to take place. Nobody's going. He tells you, "Don't go to get a 1,000 euros!" So this shows that you want to reform the state that went bankrupt. Because the state went bankrupt, not Greece. Greece can never go bankrupt. The state that New Democracy built, SYRIZA and PASOK went bankrupt. Greece will never go bankrupt because it has inexpensive resources that you have never looked for! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now what can I say about SYRIZA? You of SYRIZA say you disagree with the New Democracy policy. Mr. Tsipras reminds me of Janus. Do you know Janus? He had two faces. When it is opposition, I say it nice - it is the one person - but when it governs the New Democracy. If you're the same. You have implemented the same things - the Memorandums and all that - that the bad New Democracy and the PASOK have voted and then came back, you have again voted for memoranda and you have re-approved laws and again made presidential decrees. So cut this "annie" cut it off. It's no longer going through the world. You may collect 20% and 30% - and you do well - but you did the same. It may have been less bad, as you say, on your ideological line. I want to identify myself that I don't even know. Yeah, but you've done a bad job. What will he say, "We made things less badly"? No, you're like Janus. When you are opposition, you say, and when you ruled for once in your life, you became not to say what, because you didn't know - and it's very important to understand - to run. If he does not know how to run man, he has a problem in command of an entire state. That's the truth. Let's go to the rest. What can I say now about Mr. Mitsotakis, who is missing? Listen. He said the tax rate was 9% and you all applauded below. President. - The next item is the joint debate on You guys, for incomes up to 10,000 euros? That's what you're saying. But up to 8,500 euros was the tax-free one before. Up to 8,500 euros were tax-free. What are you doing? You know? So, what are you applauding? I don't understand. That's what troubles me. How long will the party be over our country? When will our President be above our logic? We'll see about that, Minister. I'll tell you more, Minister. When my wife gives birth to a child, you give 2,000 euros. This kid needs more money. The one who gives birth to a child in Greece, however, and is Ibrahim and Hassan, who are now coming, get benefits and free homes. The Greek doesn't get a free house. The Greek pays rent if he doesn't have a house. The Greek pays HISPIA. The Greeks, too, if he can't pay it, the bank comes to him and seizes him. That's not democracy. You're wrong. This is called Greek-phobia. This is called racism against the Greeks. Mrs Michaelidou came out here and said she would give 68 euros to every refugee every day. I would also like to ask why we do not claim them from the European Union? You tell me. The European Union must pay for all this. To be paid by the Europeans. Why would the bankrupt Greek pay for it? On the other hand, we have medical care. Do you know how much all this maintenance and medical care of illegal immigrants cost in our country? It's millions of euros. Our insurance has weaknesses and one of them cumulatively will be found in front of us in the next ten years. Because they don't have a job, they don't have contributions. And at some point we'll either be called to pay security for them, whether their medicine or their doctors. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Do you know what crime you're committing? We will find this in front of us in a maximum of ten years. Understood. So demand that the European Union pay this money. Ask for them. Require them, not ask them. You need to demand them. Because our opinion is different. I've said it a thousand times. All this proves what the great philosopher Dimitrios said. "Calpids and hypocrites are those with words who do everything while in practice they do nothing." In words. Well. You say a lot. For example, the Prime Minister here tells us that the country's growth rate goes to 2.4% and "runs". Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that Montenegro has 4.5% growth? But why does Montenegro have development, Prime Minister? And thank you for coming. So why is there 5.1% growth? Does anyone know here? Because they sold it all. Beaches, hotels, industries. This is false growth, because in ten years that he will have nothing to sell, the whole structure will collapse. That's what you're going to do now. You sell Greek, sell Scaramaga, sell "LARCO", enter money and create an illusion of development. Development means wealth, I export, I have raw materials, it's my process and I control it from top to bottom with a consequence of making money. You have to understand the basics. And I wanted the Prime Minister to hear that. And I would like to repeat once again, if he can hear it, that the state, Prime Minister, can be an entrepreneur. You're making the wrong ideology. The State may be an entrepreneur. Germany cannot be a businessman with ‘FRAPORT’, the Land of Essen, it cannot be that the Italian state-owned company ‘ENI’ cannot be an entrepreneur, the Chinese state-owned company cannot be an entrepreneur, that Austrian railways cannot be a businessman as a state-owned company and that the Prime Minister of my country here tells me that it cannot be a state-owned company and have a profit. That means you can't run properly. If you can't command, don't sell them. Let some others come. It can come after the JRC - I say - or we do better. Beyond Montenegro, listen: PPC, LARCO, Scaramagas. This is where you're doing great. That's all you're doing great. I'm telling you to understand it. You have charged the companies you, SYRIZA and PASOK, and now you are selling them out and saying "we have won". I don't understand your logic. You say we won instead of apologizing because you were unable to manage the enormous wealth of PPC. PPC is a monumental company, a capital for the development of a company, because it is the current, it is the energy. If this lignite company - and Greece has had and stockpiles of billions of euros - you cannot organise and develop it properly, then what will you develop? The biketrack? What will you develop? It's a company of vital importance and what are you doing? You're going to sell it. They started this way. You know, there's always been a "salamation" of a matter. One's starting the wrong one and the next one continues it. He doesn't fix it, so there's a diffusion of responsibility. Let's go to the next one, 'cause there's some things that bother me. I can hear the Prime Minister telling me about the bonds. You all go out on the channels and say - not to say again about the channels - 'Very success of our bonds, zero interest rates'. Have you wondered why this is happening? Do you understand that? Do you realize what the reasons are? You're not telling us that 95 out of 350 billion spread for after 2032, so there's a small risk. So the interest rate is zero. In Greece, the amount of borrowing is small, so the risk is small. When you take 2 billion euros, it's a little bit of a risk, you guys. Am I wrong, Mr. Varoufakis? Who are you kidding? You're going out on the channels and you're talking nonsense. Not to say another word, because we're in the House. You're really stupid, mocking the Greek people, who doesn't have to know financially - a low school tells us all - and you play with words to impress the world, to have another six months in front of you. Youth unemployment: So let me tell you that we have the highest unemployment rate in Europe, 18.5%, April 2019. I'm tabling for the Minutes and that table. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who are the unemployed? Our young children, our children, your children, our grandchildren, our friends, our children's children, all these kids that they studied, father paid, and it's the moment when they don't have a job. We may disagree on many things, but we should look at organizing all of us here together to generate wealth to keep our children out here and not go out. And what does the Prime Minister say? 'We have made a programme...'. That's a big plan, guys! All right! Prime Minister, if you find me young people who will come back to get three grand for twelve months and leave their jobs abroad, you are mistaken. I'd like the Prime Minister to tell me how many people are back. You made a program. How many have come back? Did anyone come behind the new kids from Brain Drain? That's not how it works. It can't really be. I say it so that we don't deceive ourselves. Let's go to the next one, 'cause it's important, too. Five hundred thousand Greeks left, Greeks, tomorrow. There must be a special committee, Prime Minister, from all the parties, so that we can draw up a plan for how these children will return back to Greece. And that's what all parties have to do together. To be a panel of experts with actions and functions on how to get these kids back. Because these kids have learned to work. They worked abroad, which means they know what it means to come out of a bite. So these kids can be the "magnetic" for tomorrow in the next decades. You have to do this. But I don't know if you do. The worst of all is that we have a parasitic education. Greek education is really parasitic. Why am I saying that? It is not linked to the labour market. Mr. Loverdo, we're producing political scientists. Where are we going to appoint them, where are we going to put them? It produces the Panteion University a number of specialties that do not need in a post-industrial society of the future. The primary sector, gas extraction and new schools must be linked to education. The School of Tourist Professionals, Mr. Loverdos, cannot be a university-level, since it is the "heavy industry". It's not for me. It can't be done. You're doing something wrong. Not you, I'm generally talking. For the primary sector, the botanist cannot have a university degree. Pharmaceutical botany! The future! I'm saying that because that's what I'm dealing with. There's no university unit. What am I supposed to do with the schools of political science? Will they all be Aristotle and Platoon? We've filled philosophers in Greece. We're all philosophers, we're philosophers. We must make substantial areas in education to create spaces so that there can be a link to work. It's not all that hard. I'm telling you that. Everyone wants to be journalists, singers, chefs and soccer players, get a transcription. Let us give our children the opportunity to open horizons with other types of jobs of the future. In other words, Russia cannot have set up a special university for pharmaceutical herbal herbology for ten years - it has also in Edinburgh, if I am not mistaken, it also has in Germany - and we are back, where we are the only country that has herbs. I keep insisting on this. In any case, the problem, Mr Prime Minister, is in the country's productive model. You do not support primary production, you do not support oil extraction, you do not have a plan for the two sectors that are the sectors of the future. Nor is the provision of service, tourism, important. Understand it. Tomorrow morning there is a warm episode with Turkey. All hotels have been cancelled. I'm telling you right now. It is a high risk industry that tourism - understand it - is not Switzerland or Liechtenstein. We are a country which is at risk from a bad neighbour, who has never responded to the logic of power. "Shut up and don't finally talk. You've done us, not to say what. You've made our life inviolable." He's claiming, claiming, claiming! So tourism has a problem, a pathogen: the dangerous one from Turkey's behaviour. That's what you don't understand. So we have to go to other areas. What do I need to tell you? Oil mining, Prime Minister, has logistics, has special technologies for oil derivatives. The plastic we've got, unfortunately, from the oil comes out, the polyethylene. Everything we've got - I repeat - around us and it's plastic, it's out of oil. Make new divisions to get our kids to work. In order to understand and understand it, in the primary sector you finally impose on the agricultural teachers to go to the fields. I went to the Netherlands - because I was dealing with the subject - and I saw six agricultural teachers from the University of Amsterdam, with all students and farmers, in a large forty acres greenhouse, all working together. Not the geoponic professor sitting in his chair at the university, taking out geoponets, going to the village and selling the fertilizer. Because that's what the geopole does in the village. Change the logic. Because you have a new Prime Minister who has a reformist perception, start from somewhere. I told him personally, Mr. Prime Minister, that we have experts to help you. Let's send you, to talk to the ministers, experts to start somewhere. I'm still waiting for an answer, of course, from the Prime Minister. He'll answer - I guess - in 2022, before the elections. And I say it very sympatheticly, because I appreciate him enough. Another issue with regard to the wealth of the country, which I am disturbed by, is this: If tomorrow morning I go to a German bank of EUR 300,000, Mr Mitsotakis, the German bank will not control me where the money is. Straight, he's grabbing them. Are we in the European Union, yes or no? Are we in the Eurozone, yes or no? I mean, the German government allows me to take my money, the 300 grand. He doesn't care where I found them, he doesn't mind. So, find a way and tell them to come out of the chests, the foldings of the 50, the 100 grand that each one has in his house and to transfer them to the banks, so that loans can be given for investments, otherwise there is no liquidity. Here you criminalized this. If someone goes tomorrow morning, 40 grand to the bank, immediately Pichilis - A.D. - will start chasing him for a felony. Get out of your mind the reasoning of the police officer. Become an entrepreneur at last. Get everyone the money to make investments. I don't care where they found them unless they're from drugs. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] It's the drugs, and that's the drugs. But we're talking about people's money. Let's take them to the banks. SYRIZA's had the capital control and since then there's been a bank police. You go 10 grand and the bells are ringing. Mr. Prime Minister, find a solution. We cannot let Germany have such a system, and we must have it. I'm telling you, if tomorrow morning I go 300 grand to the German bank, no one will control me. So why do we do the cops and we're chasing the man who's going to put the money on the bank or invest? Incentive and say: ‘Do you have 1 million euros, brother? Bring it, invest it, discharge for 10 years, 10% tax." See what investments will be made with 'black' money, as you say. Because it's not "black" money. For me it's not "black" money. "Black" money for me is drugs, trafficking, women, etc. This pain and poorness of the Greek cannot be called "black" money at the end of 10, 20, 50 grand. You all know, and you have neighbors next to you who have some money. Let them take them to the banks so that the Greek banks will be able to borrow. Is it that hard to understand? But we said, you guys run police and not business. Also, I said it the other day, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, free of charge,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Velopoulou, we're three times a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u32	I'm closing up, Mr. President, with two things. You cannot be chasing investors with the rifle, going for fisherman constantly for investments that do not come and when they come, giving them tax exemptions, such as Latsis, terrible, unbelievable, giving the right to offshore to invest without tax and chasing the Greeks who want to invest with high tax. That is not the case, it is not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen. Understand it: Or you'll make a serious technocratic state to get out of the deadlock or we're done as a country. I'm closing up, saying what I'd do if I were you. I'm not in your position, Prime Minister, but maybe at some point I am. Only the Greek people know that. Tomorrow morning you can bring 6 billion euros from Bulgaria. Tomorrow morning! Tell the Greek companies in Bulgaria that make a turnover of six billion euros annually that "I tax you with 10%". That's where the tax is 15%. You tell me about 10%, so all the companies will come back. Six billion, which means you get 1.5 billion euros. So you can do things. But unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office, I have said this before, you do not operate on the basis of logic. You don't function on the basis of logic, technocratic. You are constantly working, with what I say, the'management' logic. And most of all, which I will say again: You may be the best Prime Minister, but if you don't find your side of the ministers and executives seriously in order to pursue a serious policy, you will be another government that in the end will say "we have eaten" or "we have not been able to lose", like SYRIZA. Unfortunately, you do the same with SYRIZA and if you go on like this, you will unfortunately have the fate of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u33	However, because Mr. Velopoulos referred to Diocritos, Diocritos, if I am not mistaken, said "the world of oligomothi," the few words are world, that is, jewelry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u34	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u35	Just a few words!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u36	But that's true for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Varoufakis, I invite you to Step as Secretary of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, who is not here, listening to you, I am impressed not by your confrontation and the maliciousness that we usually follow here between you two, but by the agreement between you on a matter. That normality pretty much is here, returned. Mr Tsipras says that he brought it, you say 'no you brought it, we bring it.' Unfortunately, neither did they bring her, nor did you bring her. Our workers, our people out there and some who are in here - and I would like to welcome on behalf of, I imagine, all of our workers from Kavala Fertilizers, from the National Bank, from Piraeus Bank - are swinging our head by listening to us today. Because what they experience every day is not the return of normality, but the end and even the permanent end of normality. Mr. Mitsotakis, I would like you to pay attention to a paradox, a statistic which, at least in my career as an economist, I have never seen in any country in the world. For days, SYRIZA - you have said so, good or badly, I will not go into this - the minimum wage has been raised and the minimum wage has been abolished, which is about six hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. As we teach all the universities in the world, when the minimum wage rises, that, if anything, will lull upwards the average wage. That's what we teach in all universities. Our country is the only country in the world, as far as I know, and I have actually done a little research, and I have never seen it before in another country, where at a time when GDP is growing - inflatable but growing - the minimum wage is increasing and yet according to the figures of 'ERGANI', in the period of these 12 months that the minimum wage has increased, we have had a reduction in the average wage from EUR 1,072 to EUR 1,046. It's interesting, let's think about that. For us, in Mera25, this demonstrates one thing: there is no regularity. SYRIZA didn't even bring her what you're bringing. The question is why. How does this phenomenon explain? It's a very interesting phenomenon, scientific if you see it. The minimum wage is increased, the average falls. Two are the explanations that you will allow me to present, and I think they are of direct relevance to the subject of today's debate, and they are of direct relevance to people's lives out there, to the people of work. The first explanation is that the increase in income, this small, in recent years is due not to profits of business but to incomes. And, as we know, there is no spread, there is no multiplier in the economy. When supermarkets manage to lucratively exploit producers, this price-cost difference is not invested, it is not distributed to society, it does not go to producers, it does not go to consumers. When we have real estate gains, either because of airbnb, which raises rents, or because of sales, these gains are not dispersed, invested, we have known from David Ricardo this since. The second explanation concerns - and here we come most to our current issue - liquidated work, which by definition is impossible to protect. Prime Minister, you know - I am sure - that stores, mines and industries are replacing at the moment when we are talking about mass workers leaving with rented workers. They may also be full-time, but their working conditions are, I would say, third-world. However, I will not say it, because in the third world we have a gradual improvement on the labour market, contrary to what is happening in Greece. I will give you a concrete example, because I think that these examples are more in keeping with us. Two weeks ago, on January 29, a hired worker at OTE, at an OTE workshop, was seriously injured after a fall, because there was no second or third worker working with him in the context of the savings brought by the subcontractor who rented that worker to be able to reduce to OTE. As far as school cleaners are concerned, I will say this once again, it has been heard in the Chamber today, nine thousand cleaning houses working on a lease of work, paid every three months not even monthly by the Greek State, paid on the basis of how many rooms they clean, no matter how far they had to travel to clean them up. Such a biopasm, in Amphissa I was the other day, told me her personal history, not exactly her personal history, but a colleague who suffered cancer and not to be fired by the municipality, all the other cleaners were forced to work for her own hours to keep the job. That's what the Greek State does, that's the liquidation of the job. We cannot talk about protection of work when the Greek State gives the private sector the trigger to use these sub-contracting methods. In fact, what about the cleaning houses of the Ministry of Finance, which Mr Stagioras is not with us today? Will they stop living under hostage or will you continue what you started in 2012, be liquidated by continuing the memorandum example to other employers in particular private sector? Ladies and gentlemen, the reality out there contrary to what we are saying here today is a filthy war against work under way and a corresponding war facing small and medium-sized enterprises, but also the new innovative businesses of young people, the startups that cannot go up in that country. The minimum wage, which is the issue that has arisen today because of the timely questions by Mr Tsipras and Mr Koutsoubas, is only a tool, but it does not protect any work, no worker. Prime Minister, not all enterprises are the same at the time of Mr Tsipras' fourth memorial, which you currently apply reverentially. Small and medium-sized people are dying in our country right now. The large companies at the same time pay unjustly, because there is no serious competition committee to manipulate them. So what do we say? Yes, in increasing the minimum wage, as you say you are looking at it and waiting until June, July. At the same time, however, for small and medium-sized enterprises to be able to pay him and not to reduce working hours virtually, you should reduce the tax rate to 15%, for medium-sized enterprises to 20%, to abolish the tax advance, but to keep a high tax rate on the large companies that pay back. At the same time, there must be a brake, a abolition, in the liquidation of work by means of rent. Prime Minister, I imagine that you - like Mr. Tsipras when he was a Prime Minister - will hide behind the fact that the troika will not agree with all this. I think that is a pretext. I believe - and I say this with respect, but also with respect, sincerely - that your circle in the New Democracy is also against the tradition of New Democracy, even in the McKenzie model in the workplace, in the business areas. The McKenzie model is about the scientific intensification of the labour market, which, for example, in the United States of America has devastated the difference between the minimum wage of a large company and the management salary from 20 to 1, which was in 386 to 1 today through these methods currently being applied in Greece. Of course, this is Greece! It's a debt prison. You're not letting any judgment go lost. We see that. By hiding behind the troika, you are essentially serving the interests that, without investing, pay back the work, the small and medium-sized ones, the properties of the bankrupt Greeks, what remains standing. As for Mr Tsipras - whoever spoke before - as if he did not understand when the unsuccessful debt and labour relationship was unsuccessful. Our first disagreement at that time in 2015 - when we were in the same government - was precisely about this. I remember saying we're going to give the lenders the surpluses to get the work. This is a fundamental error. Then - you see - I thought it was just a mistake. Today, I know better. This was a political choice, which has therefore led to the grim situation which, I say, is taking advantage of the most parasitic part of the oligarchy to get rich. I heard Alex Tsipra the other day saying - and it was a front page on "AGE" -...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u39	When exactly did Mr. Tsipras tell you this deal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u40	In 2015. You know very well that I've been a few months in the government. If you read my book, you will see that there is a specific date.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u41	Is there in the movie?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u42	What did Mr. Chakalotos say about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u43	Why don't you ask him? I know what he's saying, 'cause we were talking about it together. You have to ask him to find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u44	The book is in the library on the second floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u45	I heard Mr Tsipras and I saw a front page the other day - if I am not mistaken - saying: 'Together for the protection of the first home', as you say today, we must protect the job by raising the minimum wage. Of course, the roof should be protected above the heads of our people. Of course, the minimum wage will increase. However, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, no protection of work will be essential unless the rental of workers is abolished and the taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises is drastically reduced and there are no real compulsory sectoral contracts and not what you have brought as a symphony sheet for the fact that you have not brought sectoral contracts. As far as the first residence is concerned, no protection will be possible when red loans are sold to buyers who will not buy them unless they buy red loans and the right to take out the properties in the hammer. What memorial government behind what the troika will say, let workers be rented a rule and overcompensated the small and medium-sized ones? What government set the carpet on today's Prime Minister to apply McKenzie's philosophy to the full? Unfortunately, SYRIZA's government. And who was it who started selling red loans, basically accepting Hercules' philosophy? Your government! Is it possible to ask today for protection of the first home, when, until yesterday, you launched the sale of the red loans and the mortgages they brought? Is it possible that you do not understand that the only way to protect the first residence is to stop sales? Colleagues, you're right. In the letter sent to me by Mr Koutsoubas quite rightly, he said that the question is who will be in the background of this ten-year crisis. That's the question. Until now, only the people, especially the capitalist West, have suffered bank losses, in America, Barcelona, here in Greece, with our people being loaded with the greatest weight of bank losses in favour of the international bankers. But there's a dimension you don't mention, friends of the JRC, great goodwill, great profits. That is what the Prime Minister said triumphantly, that property prices are rising and that is true. The question is who will fruit the increase in these gains. Will the Greek people and the Greek economy or predators who will take these gains and export them to the tax havens where they nest? As you well know, friends of the JRC, the system has tools that if it wants to use them to change the distribution of revenues and losses. We in Mera25 propose a specific way to use these systemic tools in favour of many, keeping the new real estate gains here in Greece without the need to recapitalise the banks. Why not coordinate, why not push in this direction? You know, we don't have any delusion. The system will do anything to prevent us from using its tools for many. But simply highlighting, and she alone, that the tools of the system could be used easily in favour of the weak even in this oligarchal system, even within the rules of the European Union, but the system refuses to do so, are for us, for the Mera25, an act that is deeply progressive, revolutionary, I would say. Ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership, your Minister for Finance yesterday in my absence once again referred to the "cost of Baroufakis" and said something specific: That EUR 40 billion, he says, was due to that five-month period. He didn't dare to say it in front of me, because he knew he would be disobeyed once again. The 40 billion to which you refer was money that you charged the citizens, you dropped them in the barrel without the bottom of the bankrupt in your hopeless attempt to keep up not the banks, but the bankers. You threw the country on the rocks with the failed second memorandum, which you never managed to complete, because it could not be completed. You have given the treasure bankers the time that the banks had sunk in the red loans created by the monumental recession that you brought. And along with your accomplices, "Diselblum and essa" swamped those who were struggling to stop the vicious circle, the one you supported. I understand that you do not tolerate even the reminder of that five-month-old people who have been released, even for a short time, by the aggressive failure of both yours and the troika. I find, unfortunately, friends of the SYRIZA that neither can you bear the reminder of that period, that great moment in European history. It is not worth in today's difficult times for our fellow humans to remain in the past. Just one word: Reading the draft of your report, which you will discuss at the weekend, the good reader draws only one conclusion: You have an obligation, if you agree with this draft of the report, to formally request a big apology first to George Papandreou and then to Antonis Samaras. Your analysis of the choices made by governments in time of menomonies does not differ one millimetre from that of Mr Papandreou and Mr Samaras. You owe them an apology. We will not apologise, because we have the same analysis that we have had before. It is the analysis that today explains, at least in our minds, why without a break with the liquidation of work, without a break with the sales of red loans to the funds, whoever talks about protecting their first residence or protecting their jobs is simply deliberately lying or at best unawares. Nevertheless - and here I close, Mr President - because people out there are not interested either in Mitsotakis, Tsipras or Baroufakis, people are suffering out there, we are willing to sit around a table consensually to talk about real solutions, about the prerequisites for the real protection of work, the real protection of the first home. And disagree, that's all right. At least, all of them should be clearly placed on three basic questions. First, does the rented work make virtual minimum wages, yes or no? Does it deny the effective protection of the first residence and of small and medium-sized enterprises, yes or no, the sale of red loans? What's the matter, Prime Minister? Staying the value of the real estate market now going up to Greece or taking out the funds abroad? We really don't have any illusions. We are ready for the dialogue, we seek him, we invite you all to him. At the same time, however, we are even more prepared to resist the liquidation of the houses of small and medium-sized public-private property, to resist the acceleration of the liquidation of labour, to stand alongside the workers, at the side of the new entrepreneurs who have a chance to export great value, not by exploiting the work, but by exploiting their own inventivity, since the Memorandum of Ghost State let them do so. Bad lies, ladies and gentlemen, work today doesn't work, collapses. Workers are liquidated together with their property, both private and public. They're even being physically rammed. At the same time, here in Parliament, in this Chamber, the commemorative bipartite cohorts continue. So, along with work, together with the homes and life of the bio-populists, together with the businesses of young people with potential profitable ideas, democracy is being devalued here. We, Mera25 will continue to use this Step, calling everyone in real dialogue on the real problems of our people out there. At the same time, out there we will stand on the side of the victims of the end of normality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u46	We are now entering the cycle of seconds, with the first speaker, Mr Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the debate was very useful and this first cycle of controversy on labour issues, because it has allowed us once again to find out who is in the present and who is constantly seeking a return to the past. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response - and I refer to Mr Tsipras, who has not yet come to the Chamber - to tell you that you are not - I was listening to you here and now, you are in there and then. Actually, you're in 2014. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that, when I hear Mr. Tsipras go up to the Step and say, Chief of Officer County! - that Christmas was reduced by 30% in the market, when I refer to reports made by children who faint in schools regardless of whether or not - the small detail escaped - by the fact that the little girl to whom she was referring was not a municipal girl to be entitled to school meals. But who's gonna get in the middle of a nice lie? One such detail will ruin a little the story's narrative. Go back to the opposition you made with the bracelets! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Only you have been in charge of four and a half years and your citizens have charged you with the consequences of your policy, which is why they sent you to Anti-Population. I fear, however, that you have not learned much from this whole route, which is forcing you to seek identity, is forcing you to adopt a reason that is so outdated by events. Sometimes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I wonder if you can really exist without a crisis, if you have reason to exist in a Greece that returns to normality. I wonder sometimes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, if you can exist without a crisis, if you have reason to exist in a Greece that returns to normality. I will not say that he has returned to normality, but certainly the country's course in recent months has been in the positive direction. I fear that the country's crisis has left and you have been left with your own crisis, the internal crisis, which you are trying to export through a political reason, which - if I may say so - will barely gain some applause from your parliamentary group. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are a Dedicated Opposition, you have a responsible position in Parliament and I must tell you that if you continue in this line, as I have told you before, the Government may facilitate it, but you certainly do not do good in the country. More is expected by the citizens, the 31% who supported you in the election. They expect more than you are expecting from what we see to this day. I now come to the specific questions which have been raised in the protagonists of the political leaders. Mr. Tsipras, are you talking about banks? Are you interested in the banks? You who disbanded the banks with your own policy, which you charged us almost 40 billion of the shares of the Greek State, which you closed, that you imposed the capital controls, are suddenly cut off for the employees in the banks when the third recapitalisation of the banks was your sole work? I'm surprised! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am really surprised at your nerves in this matter, where your own government's responsibilities, perhaps contrary to the assessment of the total damage you have imposed in the country through the third memorandum, at the cost that you caused to the Greek taxpayer is measurable, Mr Tsipras. It's measurable and you and your ministers charge it personally. And it's a cost of many dozens of billions. So when you talk about the banks and you're thinking about what happens to banks and the world working in the banks, be much more careful. I now come to the question of the extension of the sectoral conventions. You know very well that there is a procedure which has been laid down by law, a legislation which goes several years back, which stipulates that, in order to extend a sectoral contract and occupy all the undertakings in the sector, it must first be certified that the undertakings which have signed the sectoral contract represent 50.1% of the workers, because I imagine you agree that a sectoral contract, in order to be extended, should reflect the views of the majority of enterprises. Secondly, there is a very specific procedure, not very complex - and here I reply to Mr Koutsouba - where the consequences of this increase must be taken into account from the extension of the sectoral agreements, so that the Higher Labour Council can give its opinion and then the Minister can decide. That's the procedure, Mr. Tsipras. I believe that it may well be followed in these cases, in the case where you refer to, in order not to have the previous, sectoral conventions which have been extended by ministerial decisions, without any assessment, to be in the Council of State today and are in danger of being void because this procedure has not been followed. I come to the question of controls. When you come to the National Parliament that there was going to be a control over a company - you mentioned in particular Piraeus Bank - but someone "switched" to the bank that auditors are coming, what exactly do you mean? Can you explain that? Are you not insulting the auditors themselves, who are doing an extremely difficult job, and are you coming in this completely irresponsible way to address such a charge?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u48	Is that the auditors' fault?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u50	In any case, I have submitted to you, Mr Tsipras, a number of elements. You know, the numbers are not in dispute. In total, the audits carried out by the AAR in 2019 were increased compared to 2018. The amounts of certified fines increased in 2019 in relation to 2018. The audits carried out by the CRLs, i.e. in 2019 compared to 2018, were significantly increased. In fact, I have to tell you that it makes me an impression, as I see the aggregates here, how low the controls were in March, April, May. Why, Mr. Tsipras, are you cut off for the world of work? After the elections, they doubled. I can't imagine. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I guess that's a coincidence. I can't blame her somewhere else. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You have referred to and mentioned other political leaders on the issue of the legitimate reason for dismissal. Look, on the basis of the country's Labour Law, it goes back many decades, but on the basis of European practice there are two ways to get a worker fired. It is unnecessarily dismissal, where compensation is entitled to a fixed, specific, and the justified removal, where there is any reason why the company is prosecuting the worker, dismissing him. Many of these cases eventually end up in the courts, but cumulatively, these two cannot function. One of the main reasons why the provision for the good reason was abolished was that the workers themselves did not want to appear in the ERGAN system the reason why they had to leave. That's the reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] 'Cause then they had a hard time finding... [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] E-mail was your invention. Hence, we had no reaction from the world of work to abolish this provision. I now come to the issue of the programme, one of the programmes you have launched, for the five and a half thousand scientists who have been employed for a year in the Greek public sector. You are asking us to renew this programme, in contravention of the invitation itself. I read to you again because you sometimes do not understand what I am saying and I must repeat it: 'Expansion or conclusion of a new contract in the same calendar year or conversion into an indefinite contract of time'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u51	"During this calendar year"! You don't know what you're reading.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u52	Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u54	Let us look at this from a different perspective, Mr Tsipras. If we assume that we have funds to train five and a half thousand scientists and allow them to work in public for a year, not to settle in public, but to gain work experience, that's the difference in our own logic... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...we have two choices. The first option is to renew existing workers, to create many legal problems, because they will then come to haunt the right to permanentisation, all these stories that have been persecuted for many years by the public administration. We therefore have the option of offering a second year to these five and a half thousand workers, or of starting a new programme for another five and a half thousand workers. What do you choose from both? What do you choose from both? Do you prefer eleven thousand workers with one year experience or five and a half thousand with two years experience? That's the choice, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since these programmes are training programmes for the acquisition of work experience, I choose the second and not the first. So stop finally mocking Greek society and these workers... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...to whom you obviously closed the eye, even though you signed a one-year contract and told them "Don't worry. If we go back out again, we'll find a way to take care of you." That's what you told them. We never said that. So we're very well with our conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u55	Quiet, please. You don't have to agree. But you must listen to him quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u56	As I heard you say something about the programmes and the OAED, the absorption of grants to combat unemployment in 2015 was 77%. The year 2016 was 66%. The year 2017 was 68%. The year 2018 was 76%. Only in 2019 you went to 90%! You people who care about unemployment couldn't even absorb the OAU's own funds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u57	Read and a little below in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u58	You see, Mr. Tsipras, sometimes when we talk about evidence, things make it hard for you. Now let's go to the last issue, the minimum wage. I am reading a speech by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras on 8 February 2015 to the government's programming statements: "The same creditors will remain in our commitment to raise the minimum wage to 751 euros." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But I'm sorry, I've wronged you! You say ‘The increase will gradually take place by 2016’. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But it has an interest, because it is always good to compare what we have said with what we have said sincerely. Because you came here and told us we were wearing rocked rabbits. We have the opportunity to give the citizens the account of our work. Obviously - I will tell you once again - you are disturbed that this government is carrying out its work and respecting its commitments. This is an extremely foreign thing with which you cannot familiarize yourself. You still have three and a half years to get used to it. So be patient. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But what did you say in 2014? You were saying 751 euros until 2016. We have seen where you have reached the minimum wage you are now being cut for low wages. I said in 2018 that the minimum wage would go to 703 euros in 2022. That's the difference of responsibility. It would be very easy to come here, get Mr. Tasoula's hammer and auction a minimum wage. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Say, "How much do you think? You say 7%?' "Mrs. Genuines, how much do you say? You say 10%?’ "Mr. Koutsubas says 15%? It shall be established.’ That's not what we're going to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I come now to close - because I cannot leave this to myself - from now on: I have listened very carefully to what Mr Varoufakis said. First of all, Mr Tsipras, I have a question: why are you never in the Chamber when Mr Varoufakis speaks? Why do you always make sure you're absent? Mr. Varoufakis said some very interesting things today. Inside what he said - I had never heard of it - urged me to read his book, which I confess I have not read. And he told us that Mr Chakalotos also knew: to give - he says - the great surpluses, to get the work. Is that true? Is that how surpluses emerged, Mr. Tsipras? That explains your insistence, why did you never want to renegotiate the high surpluses? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Perhaps at some point, this debate on 2015, indeed, needs to be held. Because we need to have you both together in the Chamber, so we can understand what happened to this sinful semester. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have, however, - and I am closing down with this - a proposal for you: since you are about to discuss in your committee a report on what you have not done well over the last four years, I propose an examination in contrast to Mr Varoufakis and Mr Tsipras, so that we can finally give a definitive answer to what happened in the first half of 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u59	Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Police, and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is being called at the Stepma for his own adjunct.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, how much have you recently loved Mr. Varoufakis? [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You are particularly sympathetic to the man who destroyed the country in the first half of 2015, so you said. Isn't that what you were saying? The man who dissolved the banks, the man who brought debt to the country - you said 50 billion, a 100 billion, a 150 billion, a 200 billion - now how much have you loved him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u61	You did it together!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u62	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u63	It's extremely important to you. We understand all the reasons why you might be extremely important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u64	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u65	You'll understand why, Mr. Gerapitri. You'll understand. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr Mitsotakis, you have extended yourself to a number of issues and you will allow me to reply one to them. You were concerned with the kind of opposition that SYRIZA is doing. You must have forgotten about the kind of opposition you made for three and a half years, when you took over the presidency of your party, and after two months you asked for elections. And you forgot... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yes, you were the one recorded in the history of the Chief of Anti-Population asking for elections the longest time since post-Population. You have asked for elections for three and a half years. You didn't have them. You predicted the country's destruction. You predicted a fourth memorandum. You've been saying that this time. And today, on the basis of the fourth memorandum, you are, thanks to our efforts, to give some tax relief. But you mentioned - and you made a big mistake - in the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and you spoke with a lack of awareness about what happened in the country in those years that you have ruled. You were the top minister of the government, and indeed, from an evil coincidence, Mr. Brutsi was the Minister of Labour who dissolved all the labour laws, bringing all the legacy of the Memorandums in 2012, reducing 22% with a law and a minimum wage, bringing the subordinate. You were the government that brought the country within a few months into an unprecedented recession and a loss of 25% of national wealth. And today you move the finger to us, because we claimed the working rights and the increase of the minimum wage in January 2015. You forget once again that after the difficult agreement, but with a view, because where you failed - three governments - twice to complete programmes, we took the country out of the memoranda. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And if you are in a position today to brag, it is because this people and this government of SYRIZA managed to complete something that you didn't even see in your dream from 2010 to 2015. Until first, I knew you'd blame me because, he says, I traded the pensions with the Macedonian and you don't have a gum and shame to go out and disprove that, a year and a half now that you're saying it, when Yunker himself interviewed Papachela the other day came out and said that this is a misery. Nowadays, misery is multiplying it. Of course, with the happy juncture for you to say other things that you might have said, we supposedly exchanged the surpluses, he says, with work. Now it is not pensions with the Macedonian, which was a betrayal agreement for you, but which you also respect and honor. Not only respect it, honor it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you have the nerve to talk about lies and fraud. You're the greatest political con man. But today we have learned that we have exchanged the surpluses. What surpluses exactly? What had Mr. Samaras and you signed with him, as his minister, then? Did you have signed surpluses of 4.5% and 4.2%? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Did we manage to reduce by EUR 20 billion the weight you signed in five years? Or are you forgetting about this? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're forgetting about it. You won't answer that because now Mr. Samaras isn't very happy. Okay, I understand. You have internal issues too. But listen, Mr. Mitsotakis. There's a big difference between the Left and your side. On your side there is always a lycophilis climate, but it is known to everyone that "the pessimism water is shaved". And it's all known how many groups, fences, and parties are within your parliamentary group. Don't teach us! We have the boldness and freeness of looking in the face and the right and the wrongs we made. I wonder what other party that ruled the place from post-militarisation and then had the boldness and the daring to say on one subject, 'we were doing the wrong'? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's all right you guys did it. All of it! And the bankruptcy of the country was right. And the break-up of industrial relations you did right. And the 25% that you reduced national wealth was right. And the equipment and the hatreds you made right, the Chohazopoulou and the Papantoniou and the others. And the best of you did right. And the sea-lovings you took from banks 20,000,000, each of you did it right. You didn't make any mistakes. Good for you! Congratulations! [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] So you mentioned in the difficult years, in the choking years about the place, when our people were dying, because PPC was then cutting off the power - in our own years it didn't - and when some of our fellow citizens were dying of fumes from the cheek. And you're talking about populism. It is a disgrace to the dead of that period that you have done today and not populism ours. This is a disgrace to you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Lacquism is without evidence to talk about alleged exchanges with national issues. And I would like to ask myself whether your insistence on so-called exchanges and, indeed, on critical national issues on the days of the critical negotiation, whether it is born of your own trend...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u66	Please, he's speaking to the Chief of Officerial Response. Mr. Loverdo, Mrs. Gerovali, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u67	I didn't say anything about you. I wonder, then, whether your insistence on talking about such exchanges is meant by one of your own perceptions, perhaps, that your study will eventually proceed to the absolute lifting of the protection of the first residence as from 1 May has anything to do with any claims you have on other issues? I don't want to get into that logic. But I will tell you very well what I am saying. The situation in the country is neither idyllic nor easy. It is extremely difficult and difficult for those who have been difficult and in previous years. Mr. Mitsotakis, a few days ago the Prime Minister of Ireland, a nice man, Leo Varadkar lost the election. And he lost them, while Ireland - look out! - he had 6% growth, not 4% and not much more 2.4% that we will have this year, says the Commission. He had 5% unemployment, not 17% that we have and 50% debt, not 180% that we have. Why did he lose them? The two-thirds of the respondents in the field responded "we see no improvement in our lives". You promised not just improvement, but rapid improvement. And where is this rapid improvement? People are waiting to see her. Today, instead of blue sky, most of our fellow citizens see clouds accumulating. Clouds in the refugee, you received Moria with five thousand, it's twenty-five thousand. You have condemned the islands and islands to live in a situation that it is impossible to take on their backs and lift it. Unbearable! And all this in order not to transfer from the beginning, on the basis of our own program, refugees and immigrants to the mainland, because you have your mayors to do rebellious. And you sacrifice five whole islands because you cannot impose it. The situation in our national affairs is also difficult. Socially, clouds come, first residence. In the economy, the real economy, there's no light. And I come back: why did what happened in Ireland?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u68	What happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u69	The Left won, Mrs Vultis, and lost the right-wing Prime Minister, who, as I said before, had growth 6% and unemployment 5%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u70	With a 1% difference and fewer seats! You're not doing well! Tell the truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u71	Please, Mrs. Vulture!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u72	Mrs Vulture, next time we call on you to make an analysis of why the country shouldn't have been in Berlin at the meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u73	The Left has fewer seats!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u74	Okay. But listen to what I want to say, Mrs Vulture: Ireland teaches us that neither growth rates nor unemployment indicators alone are enough to make people feel better in their lives if we do not address the crucial issue. What is the crucial issue for us? The quality of work, the improvement of pay and, therefore, the purchasing power. The model of work you are promoting is that of the worker - poor. He's been paid for four hours, but he works eight in fact. He's been paid for eight hours, working for twelve in fact. And that reality - you know - we didn't bring it, you brought it. We have largely tried to change it, and we have achieved a great deal. The overthrow in employment relationships took place in your day - Brutsi Minister - where we went from 35% of part-time employment to recruitment at 55%. We created five hundred thousand jobs. We have legislated on a number of measures in favour of workers. Six million overtime was recorded in only one year, thanks to the law on mandatory electronic declaration of overtime by employers and by the constant audits of the APRC. And you now have the courage to incriminate the workers, because it becomes "soft" control and the bank learns it. Indicate workers in the APRC, those in control. It is more than doubled by overtime and more than doubled by overtime workers. And some people saw their lives improve because they were going home on time. These have happened in our day, no matter how long you want to hide them. We received the undeclared work at 19.2%, delivered it to 9% and, of course, we restored collective agreements, expansion, obligation to justify redundancies, protection of contract workers, all that you at high speed, not in seven months, in the first months of your administration. In relation to the right reason for dismissal, the legitimate ground for dismissal is a provision in the European Social Charter. It is the acquis of European law and is in force for the majority of European countries. You have done so with one last-minute amendment, and you have only succeeded in making the unprecedented one month after your election the whole Opposition withdraws. It wasn't SYRIZA who left. The House has just been allowed a month after your election to do the favor of the Greek Industrial Association. Your argument about supposedly employees’ file is false and funny. The new employer shall not have the right to have access to the information of the worker who, if necessary, is reinstated, only to the information concerning the worker in his own business. And it is unacceptable to invoke an illegal practice to justify the abolition of measures to protect workers, such as the justification for dismissal, in force in all European countries, in the countries of the European Union. You spoke of the five thousand five hundred young people and said 'our own' and 'your own' children. It's a shame, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, these recruitments were made. He'll tell you later, Mr. Gerapetritis, about Switzerland! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With an A.S.S.A.S.A., these recruitments were made. It was a certain time, of course. You're saying I don't understand what you're saying. You don't understand what you're reading. You have read the terms and duration of the contract of employment. And what does it say? It reads ‘Extension or conclusion of a new contract during the same calendar year’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u75	That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u76	That's not it. Last year this contract was signed, in 2019... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ... and we made it clear that we would provide for the possibility of renewal for at least one more year, so that then these young scientists would also get a molecules - five thousand five hundred - so that they could have a better perspective in the country. And you tell me - another fraud - 'But do you want us to keep the current programme and renew for five thousand five hundred in one year or build a better on better terms and for more'? How are you gonna do that? Make a commitment. I have the budget figures here. In the OAED, the employment programmes from 406,000 euros, which were in 2019, are 377,000 euros this year. Who are you kidding, Mr. Mitsotakis? How will you finance programmes while reducing the OAED budget for employment programmes? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I wish you could make it! We'll be with you! And I'm closing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u77	Let him go. Let him speak and close his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u78	I'm closing up with this. Do not try to get away with the issue of minimum wages. I would like to table in the Minutes a chart showing that the only country of the European Union that the minimum wage in 2020 is lower than the minimum wage in 2010, is Greece. Here's the relevant report and the media. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document and the above-mentioned post, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The only country in the European Union, Mr Mitsotakis, whose minimum wage is lower in 2020 than in 2010 is Greece. Other countries had memos. Other countries had austerity. Nobody has what we have. I have listened with interest to Mrs Gennamas agreeing to the need to increase the minimum wage. Just propose the responsibility of the partners to take it from collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u79	But you didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u80	I'll tell you. But if we agree - and I have no objection to this - that we must return to at least 2021 where we were in 2010, namely the minimum wage of EUR 751, then I am prepared to propose that we change our proposal for a law and give from tomorrow, today and not 2021 the responsibility of the social partners, but on one condition, that the increase that they decide will have as the floor 7.5% for 2020 and 7.5% for 2021. If the collective partners decide on higher increases, we will support them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And if it is a question of giving the social partners the opportunity to negotiate on this condition, we say 'yes' and if you want to table this proposal together. I want to close by saying... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yeah, what do you mind? I spoke a little bit longer. And the Prime Minister spoke. These are serious issues. Five minutes won't hurt you. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u81	However, the truth is, Mr Tsipras, that in Ireland they are keeping the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u82	Let you, too, respect other commitments they make in Ireland, have a minimum wage, a social state, a social protection, and we would speak less. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the Prime Minister say that there is no strong country without strong businesses. I'm going to reverse it and say this: Nobody wants us to have powerful business. There is, however, no strong economy without quality at work and therefore there is no strong country without quality at work. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I wanted to speak today not so much to Mr Mitsotakis because I know his views and positions. And I ask him not to address me. People know we disagree. I ask him to address the hundreds of thousands of workers, those who are outside and those who are up here watching us, and from the 'Periods' of Kavala and from the Piraeus Bank and from the ELPE and the young scientists - five and a half thousand will be on the road. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These people are not invisible because they are not involved in the media. They're visible. They have faces. They have a name. To them, address. And address all eighty thousand workers who saw increases in their wages by increasing our minimum wage in 2019 and one million eighty thousand who will see increases if our proposal for an increase of 7.5% in 2020 is accepted. So, please address them, Mr Mitsotakis, to the world of work, to them you have to apologise, not to your parliamentary group. We in this world want to move forward, because this world we want to represent. That is why we tabled this proposal for a law, which is why we will table a comprehensive draft law on the regulation of the labour market against the new generalised threat to workers' contraction and put forward a proposal for a law on the universal coverage of collective agreements. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are dealing with the needs and demands of the world of work, not with you. You will soon be faced with the great problems that your policy creates.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u83	Mrs Fofi Gennimata, President of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all this beauty that we have been living in the last few hours, so-called constituencies and insurmountable populism cannot change the grim reality. There was a problem in the workplace, there is still a problem and it is growing with policies that are continuing. And how could it be done differently, how could a solution be given when the current government continues on the main policy paths to SYRIZA commitments, commitments to surpluses, commitments to the excess, obviously also to jobs? And they come here today and they are supposed to be on their way. In fact, they constantly close the eye to each other. And to cover all of this, because they're continuing the same policies, I'm told out that they're flirting with us in the Change Movement. Well, day it's today, we don't need anyone's flirting. We have received news from you and you have received news from the Greek society. That's the worst for both of you. One for that loses the election, and at last, he'll do well to understand it. You are not in 2012, 2013, 2014, in 2015. There are your things, Mr. Tsipras. And at last, Mr Mitsotakis, you are faced with reality and when you say generalities and inaccuracies you are not in a position to effectively solve any problems at all. I'm starting with the women. I find it my duty to restore the truth, because the PASOK Government in 2004 was the one that, as a measure to strengthen the demographic problem and infertility, introduced reduced contributions for women for one year after birth. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We managed to keep these regulations intact in the years of the crisis, until Mr Katrugalos came by his law - the man will have loxs today, he has his problems and we have wished him passively, but the problems he has created are here and we are confronted with them daily - and he has not explicitly legislated this right. And then came your Minister, Mr. Metarakis, and says: ‘Ah, is it not expressly mentioned in the law of Katrugalos? So I'm making an interpreter and I'm saying it's not retroactively." I've got everything here. I have Mr. Metarakis' circular. Just because our parliamentary group and Mr Kegeroglu have raised the issue and opened the eyes to your Government - because you say that you did not know what you are doing - they have now been forced to 'chew' them and try to get them back, but the solution is one: to legislate explicitly and retrospectively, because the measure must continue and the contributions must be reduced for women for a year after giving birth. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I come to the Foodstuffs Federation because you tell us that they are delaying and not responding and that the process is not moving forward. There is no delay on their part. You ask them to provide you with information and to give them to you, they must take from the national data that the Ministry has received from you, which you have been asked for since the beginning of 2020 and you do not respond. So you know very well, Mr Mitsotakis, that if the Ministry does not give them access to national data, they will not be able to respond and give you what you are asking. Therefore, there will be no obligation to agree on the contract, which concerns four hundred thousand people. So enough of the populism you continue, the lies and the creative ambiguity. If you'd like, please order the Ministry of Labour today to give them the information and make these contracts compulsory. Renewal of the programme for the five and a half thousand jobs. You drew a topic from the hair, as if you will now solve this problem and the "told me" and the customer relations and close the eye to the one who is in the gallery or waits in a row. Renew the program and make an evaluation. But you cannot make the five and a half thousand jobs five hundred. For God's sake now! At last you're committing yourself. Why are we having this whole conversation all these hours? So you can tell us the same thing you've all been telling us for so many years? There's a result, too. That'll say regularity, Mr. Mitsotakis. Regularity will say to solve issues in favour of the unemployed, in favour of young people, in favour of the people of the labour force. That's our job, and that's why we're here. Because we are socialists and democrats. What can we do? We're different. We are different from the Conservatives of the Right and from the Conservatives of the so-called Left. That is why we are tabling programmes in particular. Our commitments are not vague. Our group has tabled concrete proposals for legislation, specific provisions. I would like to refer to the main points of our proposals, which can really solve issues for both workers and the unemployed. First and foremost, it is to link growth to jobs. There can be no employment clause in public contracts, Mr Mitsotakis. When you say that incentives need to be given, but not to the public, of course, but give incentives to create jobs in the private sector. We have tabled a specific provision on how there might be tax incentives for every 100 euros paid by a company for a full-time young worker to be tax-free for a hundred and fifty. Second theme: Determination of the minimum wage by the National General Association of Labour. Finally, we'll stop with the price cuts, with the lisverts. It is the social partners who must and can decide and know. You have missed your chance, Mr Tsipras, to resolve this for your time. Leave the words of the air now. The parties are judged in practice. Thirdly, we are strengthening sectoral collective agreements, reintroducing their binding and universal application to all companies, whether they are part of employers' organisations or not. Fourthly: Elimination of the law of Katrugalo and not'remedies' and'makers'. A dialogue on fair and sustainable solutions, respecting the returns and safeguarding the rights of the new generation. We'll repeat this all the time. Normally 15 years of age and to remove the injustices of the CSR, the disabled and the widow's pensions. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Fifth: New social contract of the digital age now, before it's too late. Lifelong employment programme. We must train workers not to find 'outside the bridesmaid', with incentives and quantified obligations for employers. Sixth: Increase of unemployment benefit by providing it with the European Social Fund, while allowing it to be used as an incentive for subsidised work in the private sector. Seventh: Upgrading the Labour Inspectorate. I don't have to argue about what's going on out there, about how far back we're in relation to the need for checks. It's live every day by the workers on their feet. Application of an electronic working card to all private sector enterprises. Eighth: Protection of the first residence of weaker borrowers from auctions. I have not heard any commitment today. In conclusion, I would like to refer to some large traditional and important businesses with a crucial role not only for Attica, but also for other regions. We supported the previous period and we will support all the positive efforts that will be made on the Elefsina shipyards and the Scaramaga shipyards, but on conditions. The first condition is that enterprises stay open and viable with new investments. The second condition is that we guarantee the rights and employment of workers. Third condition: to give the workers, which is a great deal. As far as LARCO is concerned - I told you that I will come back - the procedure you have chosen, Prime Minister, does not reassure us about the risk of closure of the company, as well as not only the risk of closure, but also the risk of a partial sale of the company. What does that mean? It means that the mine can be left here, but the factory can go either to Skopje or to Turkey. And when? Now that the nickel price is rising. You must commit that you will prevent this, that you will not explicitly allow it. I'm waiting. You have tritology too. Of course, I would like to remind you - and that is why we are so suspicious - that you have a huge responsibility with your governments for the damage to LARCO. The Karamanlis governments in 2004-2009 with maladministration charged a hundred million a year with damage to the company and admitted it to your executives. And one last word, because I heard you talk about the Juncker interview. Mr. Juncker said more. He talked about the destruction of Greece in the five years 2004-2009 by the government of Karamanlis. Will you ever admit it in here, will we agree on the truth - and you, Mr Tsipras, or do you, Mr Mitsotakis - which led to the derailment of the economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u85	The General Secretary of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u86	Prime Minister, I don't really know where you're talking about and presenting the picture you've been exuding here today. You are likely to confuse the profitability and euphoria of various business groups with the situation within the workplace. For example, in the last few weeks, I have met, at the request of the workers, with almost a lot of unions and federations from the Kavala Fertilizers, which are here, the unions of "LARCO", the Food Tourism Federation, the Federation of Banking Officers (OTOE), the associations of ELPE, the GENOP PPC, the OTE workers and so many others, as well as hundreds of workers in our almost daily contact. All of these, based on your words, live in another country. The reality, unfortunately, is that the official unemployment figures remain firmly glued by more than 17%, i.e. one million unemployed. Flexible employment, i.e., just to go and say Greek, the elastic job of EUR 380, mixed wages, has been eroded. It is evolving into permanent flexible work rather than temporary work, low paid, undeclared, uninsured work, which, among other things, actually hides real unemployment. This year the majority of new recruitments are in flexible forms of work. With your own figures, more than 55%. Does this justify the well-known cohort with alternating roles of the celebrated and the complainant among you, gentlemen of civil liberal and social democratic bipolarism? Together, you have not shaped this anti-galactic monstrosity that the workers have to deal with today? Whatever side of the working middle ages one gets, it is emphatically confirmed that the recovery of capital gains, as is baptized every time, "fair growth" by SYRIZA, "growth for all" by you, has as a fundamental condition the full-on attack on labour rights. The official figures of the state illustrate in a typical way the basic aspects of the jungle experienced by workers at this stage of today's capitalist growth - recovery. This working jungle has the common seal of the policy of all governments so far. From this point of view, it is really challenging to try New Democracy and SYRIZA and today in here to make black white, changing to the very same roles, every time the new data on unemployment comes out, on recruitment and redundancies flows and others. Indicative of this provocative effort is SYRIZA's proposal for a law on the minimum wage, which was presented by the former Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsoglou, the same one that, as Minister, had rejected the proposal of more than five hundred unions at the time for the reintroduction of the National General Association of Labour. Let us remember that this proposal was then tabled by the unions to all the parties in Parliament. Only the JRC submitted it as a law proposal and all together in here rejected it. And not only that, but with new bills, you have kept the legislative framework intact, with which the Minister determines the minimum wage level, on the basis of the competitiveness of companies, thereby ensuring the institutionalised permanent wage squeeze. Conversely with the first Brutsi law, the Ahchioglu law is here, and now again another Brutsi law. Here we note that what has been done in Greece has not been done and is not done in any other country. Aren't you the ones celebrating the exit from the memoirs, the return to normality? Here and now, then, bring back the collective agreements. In fact, trying to respond to me, in your dentistry, you said that a sectoral contract extends if it covers 50%+1 of the workers. Do you not know, in fact, that employers retain the right not to give workers' registers, precisely so that they do not see whether they employ the majority of the workers? No one obliges them, and that's why SYRIZA didn't hurt that either. Let go of that mockery. One, New Democracy, for example, speaks of 50 euros over three years, rather than falling a lot, perhaps, and the workers don't know what to do with them, where to invest them. And the other one, that is, SYRIZA, because he's more bartender and, of course, now he's also in the opposition, tabled a proposal for 7% every year by 2022 and then 2022 will start the negotiation for the national collective agreement. As you can see, we don't put you in the same bag. We are clearly saying your differences. They are so many that even the authors of Dawn, known and unexplainable, can explain them to you in three hundred dictionaries in the articles that they write, so that you don't be tortured and you're looking and you're waiting until Monday's Presence, as you say, to be revealed and until the overthrow of capitalism is attributed to you, while most of you, as you say, can be done by you here and now, just as you've done the previous five, four and a half for the accuracy of the years. So why didn't you get out here and now, without waiting for socialism, this lousy anti-Semitism law that bears the Brutsi seal, and then became Ahchiolgos? As far as the protection of first home and the auctions are concerned, some have acquired, we have seen some late sensitivities, while the government has opened doors in previous years and for selling red loans to the funds and removing any protection there was for the first place. Twice we tabled a proposal for a law on the protection of highly indebted households in previous years, and twice you wrote it in your old shoes, as you wrote in your old shoes and unions' proposal for minimum wages. And not only this, but in December 2017 you brought a change to the Criminal Code, demanding banks and funds, to criminalise the mobilisations against auctions. So who are you working for now is the pain in auctions and joint action for joint action? Well, not us. We will immediately submit our proposal again, of course, for the protection of first residence, together with the abolition of your own proprietary name and the proposal of five hundred unions to restore the minimum wage for the national collective agreement and collective agreements. And let everyone in here take a seat. The proposal that we have tabled for our first residence again today in the Minutes of our debate, so as not to be tortured, namely, and you are looking and you are waiting for all that we have been telling you for years. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned proposal, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, we will not forget once again, because'repeat of all learning', that the whole anti-government image unfortunately complements the new insurance that the New Democracy is preparing for, in order to shield more and to put the law into effect - the plundering of the previous government, which now also acquires two gods, we will repeat it again, the Katrugalos and Brutsis. On the substance, the criticism made by SYRIZA to the Government of New Democracy is a criticism of opposition coexistence. We have said this once again, once again listen to it, since a large part of all these anti-grass laws - especially in labour - bear wide and its signature. And that's no longer what we say, nor is it just the people who supported you until the summer of '15s. It is said to all tons today by several members and members of SYRIZA, as well as PASOK - KINAL, who, as you can see, can't afford another mockery. Mr. Mitsotakis, be careful exactly what they say. You have got the Minister of Labour to serve an anti-KKE delicacy, with Chrysayitis, in fact, phraseology, further distorting the positions of the Communist Party of Greece. Last night when, in a timely question about the unacceptable discrimination introduced by the Katorugalou Law on insurance rights against the Greeks of Albania - who were even mobilized yesterday - but also migrants who have been in Greece for many years legally living, working here with their families, Mr Brutsis resorted to the unspeakable slogans "constitution" of the Golden Dawn, as if the Greek workers did not know which governments cut their pensions. Of course he's not a fool, Mr. Brutsi. He's dangerous, a slander and a provocator. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the escalation of the anti-galactic attack and the provocative propagandaist kite that accompanies it, the organisation of the struggle of the workers themselves of the Greek people is giving an answer. So now we all need to strengthen the strike front for the 18th of February that organise federations, labour centres, unions throughout the country, with the struggle for social security, but also other demands, modern needs for work and life. And here from this step in this great social alliance, on this classic racing front, all and all the workers, the workers, overcoming strangles and enclaves in the various urban parties, liberal and social democratic, as well as your word in here, who brought us here and responsible for all this hardship of the workers. It will ultimately be judged there and, after all, the people's rightfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u87	I now call on Vima, with the courtesy of Mr Velopoulos, Mr Varoufakis for his second-guess, because Mr Varoufakis has a very serious personal reason to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Velopoulos, thank you, this is the funeral of my best friend in a quarter. The Prime Minister in his dentistry saddened me. He did not respond to two very practical issues. Firstly, it raised a specific question of how the Greek public rents workers, school cleaning machines. And I asked: Is there a sensitivity to this matter? Isn't there any sensitivity? Does the public want to give the trigger for the rental and full merchandise of every hour of work in the private sector? The non-response I think it confirms that the answer is really positive. Secondly, Mr Mitsotakis, you have not mentioned this paradox, which concerns the structure and functioning of the labour market in Greece. You are the Prime Minister of a country where the labour market works in a way that we have never seen in any capitalist country either the West or the North or the South. I've submitted an explanation for you. The reason why, despite the increase in the minimum wage, the average wage has fallen, concerns income, which is the main component of GDP growth. You didn't answer. So much sensitivity to the rewarders! Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to what I said before and which, for some reason, was enthusiastic about the Prime Minister, yes, Alexis Tsipras and the surpluses he gave and did not take the work. However, as Mr Tsipras owes a great apologies to George Papandreou and to Mr Samaras, you must apologise to Mr Tsipras. Because at least he - as he said - reduced the primary surplus from 4.5%, which you had, to 3.5%. And it has applied with troika criteria successfully, not with ours - the troika criteria of success are precisely the opposite of the popular criteria of success - what you have not implemented. And if you are now the Prime Minister of a country and you can grasp that we have sales of Greek bonds with less than 1% of interest, this is due to the third repulsive and fourthly even more reprehensible memorandum of these here, that is, SYRIZA. I think that political culture requires that Mr Tsipras and Mr Papandreou and you should apologize to Mr Tsipras. After all, the same memorial framework you serve. Friends of SYRIZA may have separated our roads unreturned. We do not, however, level out. I know you don't have in your DNA the MacKenzie model of scientific intensification of labour exploitation. We know you've been subjected. We know, those of us in the government in 2015, that in the end no one sat late hours in the hall of a hotel in Paris waiting for Mr. Declan Costello when he would accept him in his room to beg for something on the second memorandum. And, Mr. Mitsotakis, you know exactly who I'm talking about. We at Mera25 charge SYRIZA's companions something much worse: the legalisation of your own account and the account of the Change Movement. I won't abuse time. Every time 2015 arises from either you or now in SYRIZA's statement this weekend that comes, what we see in Mera25 - and it is the only reason we are talking about the past, there is no reason - that falsehoods for 2015, for that five-month, entrepreneurial and entrepreneurial, are used as weapons against work, against the first home, against maintaining the values of Greece, in favour of the pilgrimage made with the Greek, in favour of all whose arguments you do not have to defend them beyond "and what will the lenders say?" Mr President, you will allow me to read out a decision of the Ice Arena. It is the decision 277/2014 of the F Criminal Department of the Ice Bay. Referring to Article 370(2) on the printing of oral material between third parties, which is generally considered to be illegal, the Marios Ice has ruled - and in the Minutes the decision - is bold and self-evident: 'This prohibition does not include acts or manifestations of persons who, regardless of the manner and time they are made, do not refer to the sphere of their personal and private life. But they shall be carried out in the framework of their assigned service and in the performance of those duties, which, by the nature and the nature of the tasks carried out, shall be subject to public control.’ [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, because lies for 2015 are being used, as I said, as a weapon against workers today, against first residence, for the realisation of property both private and public, because we in Mera25 believe in transparency, it is time to end the lies. We will deprive you of the right to lie about what was happening within the Eurogroup in 2015 because, firstly, in accordance with the decision of the Ice Arrow, the recording on the Eurogroup of those unacceptable troikas who wanted to crush your own voters, not only the left-wing voters, who wanted to humiliate Greece as a whole, who had never tabled any technically sound proposal that rejected all our fine proposals. If you want to hear what was going on in there, I have the recordings here. Mr President, I leave to your discretion the way in which you will communicate them to the Members of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-six students and four teachers from the 2nd Portaria Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have a problem with what happened before, because, if we start our conversations recording them and sharing them in here, I don't know if what happened before is legal. [[Noise in the Chamber]] That's all I'm saying, and if you didn't understand, that's all right. I say we hear them, but I don't know if they're allowed. In my view, then some people should have spoken. After five years it may be a little too late, because in five years the offences, as far as I know, are being dropped, mainly economical. Let's actually go now. What happened today was nothing but tiny-party controversy caves to sustain the two cities, New Democracy and SYRIZA. SYRIZA because he faces his own problems, both internal and internal, and the New Democracy because he faces its own problems with illegal immigration and all these problems he cannot solve. So I think the existence of one another is self-evident and the existence of the other. As long as you two want to keep up, you'll make these fake controversy, fake differences, false disagreements, just so you can have the next day. I will tell you this and insist on it: When I hear a party leader saying "one has whistled into a bank that the APR has gone", he whistled and the logic ended. The logic is over. This cannot be said in Parliament. I don't know, and Mr. Tsipras isn't here anyway, he's been here many times. So I say this: is it possible to say this without evidence in Parliament, without any evidence of this? He says someone whistled and that happened. Is it a referee and someone whistled? They're not told if you don't have any evidence. If you don't have evidence, you can't say it. I am not saying that it has not happened, but I say that the institutional role of a Prime Minister and of a Chief of Police Response does not allow it to be played with whistles and whispers, cannot be done. In other words, we ourselves weaken and degrade our political speech. And I can say he whistled me a nightclub and a chili that Mr. Tsipras gets them. Now get out of the way! Are these reasonable? You can't do that. Let's go on the undeniable facts, Prime Minister. You are fighting about how many people you have done more - I repeat - controls within the labour inspectorate, that is, you are talking about police rule. And it speaks of police rule, SYRIZA and New Democracy, when crime in Greece, that is, real crime, triumphs, when under Omonia there are phrases of Algerians, Moroccans who each other are killed and cannot pass through. Yesterday we had massacres, I don't know if you found out in New Democracy. You would change the Exarches, change Greece, provide law, order and security, but repeat the same phenomenon. They're slaughtering each other. We heard about auctions here. One said 'I give 750', the other said 'I give 751'. One says 'I give 720', the other says 'I give 721'. Listen, it's not how much you're going to give, because you won't actually give it. You don't give the money, neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA. All you can give is work for the Greeks, but with what New Democracy and SYRIZA do, you are giving unemployment, recession, false growth and I have analysed them in my prototype. I'll tell you one more thing. When we talk about wage cuts in here, when we talk about reductions or wage increases, I sincerely want you to understand it. When you think that you need to reduce or increase wages, think about something much simpler. When we talk about people who can't get through, think about the reductions of your own wages, think about the reductions of state officials. Think of the reductions in EKOs, to see if you will like what you say about lowering wages or false increases. This concerns me that there is no link between the Greek Parliament and society. We live outside of society. We are talking about the fates of an entire people, but we have never planned properly, we have not made a serious plan, so that we can get the country out of the deadlock. And a serious plan wants a serious opposition, he wants a serious government, he wants serious politicians. We need to learn to think and, most importantly, to respect the Greek. The Greek one of the two grand he took went to 700 euros. From 1,500 to 600, 400 and 300. That's what you think. In your mind be your relatives and friends, not just yourself. Now, Prime Minister, Mr Varoufakis said something, that SYRIZA indirectly exchanged labour and minimum wages with the surplus. Then it sounded about the Macedonian, the Prespecies's Agreement. I hope that the New Democracy does not do so for Greek-Turkish. Because we are learning about the first residence and the seizures that positive messages are coming from the European Union. Do not do the same to me, because they exchanged or exchanged what happened in the past with the shameful Prespecies Agreement, to give a "tie" allowance to the Greeks, exchanged a historic name of Macedonia. Don't make the same mistake as the Greek-Turkish. Don't take us to The Hague, and I'm saying it's a warning. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As for the first half of 2015, Prime Minister, I challenge you now to do so tomorrow morning. Pre-review committee, to see where 100 billion euros were lost, 80 billion or 70 billion or 60 billion from SYRIZA. Why don't you, Prime Minister? Let's do it together, let's sign up. Check how much money we lost there in the first semester. With criminal negligence, you want, with their involuntary or voluntary assistance, the money has been lost. The New Democracy MPs have been calling this election, and I have said that billions have been lost because they have been lost. You don't care as a government to see why and how they got lost? Not for the other one to bring us conversations here. We should really look into the fault of losing billions and not having Greek and state budgets. Why don't you, Prime Minister? Pre-examination, committee of inquiry for the first half of the SYRIZA, to see how much waste the sack is, because there are many things that say here and sometimes their affliction is abundant. And when I say courage, I mean political courage. I want to prove now, with arguments now, how much you are. Common points, therefore, SYRIZA and New Democracy. In Skopje you have the same view of you and SYRIZA: the state keeps on going. The books of the Religious Gavroglou changed them and made them unchristian, unorthodox, New Democracy continues them. Elimination of religious oath by SYRIZA, which was introduced and maintained by New Democracy. Loans law, funds were served, banks, electronic auctions free of charge, non-protection of first home. SYRIZA and New Democracy say the same thing. Illegal immigrants: SYRIZA, open centers and allowances, New Democracy and birth benefits, free shelter and closed structures that will be opened. I haven't seen a closed structure that opens in the morning, noon and noon. What is it? Either it's a closed structure and it closes or it's open and it closes. Decide. "Balakies" deliver molotovs, if they are arrested, and they are not even prosecuted. "Balakies", a flood even now, if they are arrested and given the molotov. Let's go down. Crete. I'm on my way. You went and inaugurated a road. Because Crete is, for me, a very nice island and I have too many relatives in Heraklion, Mr Prime Minister, a big family, they have a complaint from you. For decades you have not been able to make a road. As a government you come here today and say you will, but you will also put tolls. I do not imagine that the "kouzulos" Cretans will be tolerated tolls in Crete. If they can tolerate this, the Greeks have completely broken and irrevocably. There's no salvation! Tolls, Prime Minister, to put to Crete or the rest of Greece, when Europe has no toll, I think it proves that we are not a European country, but we are an African country or another, in any case, a country. There aren't any. When you pay traffic fees, you don't have tolls. Release fee means I pay to walk around the streets, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Don't be half-ass. I'm paying traffic charges to walk on the streets, not to put a toll on me. You'll either have tolls or tolls. One of the two, to be at least serious. Let's go to PPC's theme. On SYRIZA in 2015 NOME had a cost of 600 million. In New Democracy, in 2013, we were committed to liberation by 2023. Pollutant clause of 1.6 billion. This is the lost money of the Greek people. These are you and you have lost them or your mistakes are lost by the Greeks. That's the reality. As for the Greek, I won't talk. You both agree. You both agree on Cassiope. For the insurance, you both agree. The Katrugalu law continues. For LARCO, you both agree with your criminal mistakes, because SYRIZA sent letters. Chakalotos, the left man with the millions, the chosen minister, sent, says, letter...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Velopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Voutsi, that's what he says. Did I say that? They say he sent a letter and he was looking for investors. So, by letter, you're looking for investors? No one's doing that. By letters to look for an investor, it won't be possible! Sackleropoulou: you both voted for it. Tax: reduced VAT on islands, whether or not extended or not frozen. Increasing rates of income from rents. You didn't reduce them to New Democracy. Enforcement of a fixed internet telephony tax. What have you done, Prime Minister? You called them, begged them, did they do something? You're the ones who called your office with the mobile phones. Did they do something? Did you check them again? Did you get someone to check on them? They're corporations, aren't they? Send the ILO, the AAD, to knock them out from the top to the bottom. I did not understand that, since they do not agree that we are the most expensive on mobile phones in Europe. We are the most expensive country with the lowest wages and the most expensive fees. That's not how it works. The excise duty on fuel has not been reduced. The imposition of a residence tax on tourist accommodation was introduced by SYRIZA and the New Democracy did not abolish it, only to defer him a little for those affected by "THOMAS COOK". Enforcement of the tablets, etc. SYRIZA adopts, New Democracy implements and implements, because there is continuity in the state. In closing, I want to say something they were saying about the ancient majestics. There's a proverb. Do you know her? I will tell you now: 'Great tears'. So they said of those who cried at lies, for the Megarians in ancient times cultivated onions. So are you. Weep with tears and well that you hurt the Greek people, that you all hurt the Greeks, but no one makes a serious plan to get the country out of the deadlock. I'm not telling you anything bad, but we suggested specific things to you. Let me see if you'll implement one of these. And there are other proposals. You say 'What we have done with it'. If what you said you did, then you did nothing. And SYRIZA said "it was fair, it was done". The righteous and the righteous. If that's how you think they're capable and fair, you probably don't know Greek. Finally, Prime Minister, I would like to say this. I want you to take the initiative for the Northcontinent brothers. There's a big, scary problem with their pensions. I read the letter of an artist, Mr. Massora, who said: "The word Northcontinent is not synonymous with the word South Albanian." In the end he said: "The Northcontinent, despite the fact that he has fully fulfilled his obligations", Mr Brutsi, listen to me, I would also like you to see it, "do not receive the pension they have to receive." Why, you guys? Why does every Hassan come to Greece get benefits? Shouldn't the Northcontinent be able to retire, my Minister? I don't understand that thing. Each Ibrahim and Hassan receive benefits every month. You give it to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u93	But he did.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u94	It's all right, repeat every mother of all learning. For those who don't know easily, like you, I'll repeat them, to understand them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u95	But he said so. Say it yourself, but it's solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u96	For example, and I close with it, the massacre was made yesterday under the Omonia. Fences and signals come the cops looking for the killer. Prevention is important, not repression. We will be here to inform you about prevention, because you are only suppression. That's the problem. And even a repression that never takes place. All you are suppressing is the power of the Greek people, the logic of the Greek people and the pocket of the Greek citizen. Remember these things, because I told you: The sooner you came, the sooner you will leave, if you continue, unfortunately for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-four students and students and four teachers attending the Kronos Kozanis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to inform you of this before giving the floor to the Prime Minister for Tritology. Mr Varoufakis a few minutes before leaving for the funeral of his best friend - as he said - he left with the designation "Confidential, to the President of Parliament by the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group" an envelope. He discounted his speech before leaving for the funeral of his best friend - as he said - that the content of this dossier is about the secret recording of the practices of top collective bodies of the European Union. In this way, obviously, he gives me the right before he leaves for the funeral of his best friend, as he said, to decide whether to give it to the political leaders. I wanted to say that, when someone feels like he has to take an initiative, he must announce secret recordings, he must do this initiative on his own responsibility. I do not understand myself or the House as a portrayer or a bearer of Mr Varoufakis' responsibilities in this regard. I therefore call immediately upon a clerk and return as unacceptable the letter from Mr Varoufakis. The House will not turn into a porter whose responsibility it wants to take on by revealing such secret recordings. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] So I would ask, after that, that Prime Minister Mitsotakis be given the floor for his tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u98	I will be brief, Mr President. That is right, in our assessment you have acted on the fact that you have just referred to. I would like to make a special comment on an issue that Mr Velopoulos raised at the end of his speech and then two very brief general political comments on the subject of the debate, because I think that on the issues of what is happening in the world of work we have had the opportunity to compare. I must, of course, point out that we can have different views on things, a different philosophy in the way we understand growth, the balance between growth and work protection. These are perfectly legitimate and - I would say - expected in a parliamentary democracy. We do not, however, have the right to question the figures, as they at least are made public by the official bodies of the Greek state. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If ELSTAT certifies a decline in unemployment, that is a real finding. If we have the information on the checks carried out on infringements of the labour market, I imagine that this is not the case. These elements cannot be disputed, as neither are the elements of the ‘ERGAN’, which are extremely useful. In their next version, they will enable the Ministry to know fully and electronically all the profile of the employees in each company, so that Mr Koutsoubas does not have the concern if employers share this information with the employers' organizations. So a request: When we submit - anyone who submits it - official information in the Minutes of the House, that information cannot be disputed. He has the right to his opinion. We have no right to present information which is not really, at least as reflected by the official authorities of the State. Mr. Vellopoulou, you made an observation about our Northcontinental brothers. I would also like to repeat, that there is indeed an injustice, which has to do with the fact that those who came from Albania - Greeks, members of the Greek minority - in our homeland and have made pension rights, were not able to practically complete forty years, as the regime in Albania collapsed in 1989. Most of them have come to Greece since 1997. This is a reality which the Ministry will take into account and the necessary corrective steps will be taken. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] I hope that this will be done with the agreement of the entire National Representation. I now come to two remarks I have heard from Mr Tsipras. I would also reply to Mrs Gennimata, but she is not here, and I do not think it is appropriate to reply to a political leader, who does not consider his presence necessary until the end of the debate. I was particularly impressed - and this is addressed to the whole of the parliamentary group - that is the first time I have seen a group of Members applauding your catastrophic mistakes with enthusiasm. That's unprecedented! I've never seen it before! I mean, if you had done well, you'd go up to the benches, gentlemen of Officer's Department. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's not self-criticism. This touches the boundaries of graphics. I'll close with you. You have made an observation, making a comparison that you, as a great democratic party, still have some sort of moral superiority over Central Right, because you are the only ones to do - that is what you said - sincere self-criticism, which no other party has ever done. We, Mr Tsipras, have another tradition in our own political space: when a political leader loses elections, he resigns. That's our big difference!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with the special agenda: 'Summary, at the request of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in accordance with Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure, on the subject of informing the House of the government policy on employment'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on today's topical and urgent question issue, let me tell the House on Monday 17 February 2020. ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Anastasios Hatzidis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Anastasios Hatzidis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The need to train pupils in the first aid". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Evangelos Apostou to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Suspension of three departments of the National Kapodistrian University in Psachna Evia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 490/10-2-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Catherine Notopoulou to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The Greek Tourism Organization (EOT) is led to a shrinking. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2553/11-12-2019 question by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Serious problems in Greek-language education abroad. Staffing, organization and non-paid questions to teachers’. I would also like to say to the House: The President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the MPs of his party tabled a legislative proposal on 14-2-2020: 'Commercial Labour Conventions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Furthermore, the Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic, Justice, Home Affairs and State tabled a draft law on 13 February 2020: ‘Trade marks — Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2015/2436 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States on trade marks and Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I am also aware that the Secretary-General for Legal and Social Affairs will inform the House of the following in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 14 February 2020 that the timely questions to be debated are as follows: The number 486/10-2-2020 and 492/10/2020 topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Question No 487/10/2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Veyropoulos. Question No 494/11/2020 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Question No 502/11-2-2020 and Question No 1988/18-11-2019 on the cycle of petitions and questions, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Geremis Thomas. Finally, the number 480/4-2-2020, 481/4-2-2020, 485/7-2-2020 and 491/10-2-2020 topical questions, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr Dimitrios Economou. We begin with the second with number 494/11-2-2020, a topical question from the Prime Minister of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagi to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Emergent need for the placement of a General Doctor in Herikossa". I appeal from the outset, because it took a lot of time in the previous procedure, to be consistent in time, both our fellow Members and the ministers. Mr. Biagi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your presence. I am sorry that once again I come to ask your Ministry a timely question, which is not about Corfu or, if you like, about Greece, which you were planning and we would like to make for tomorrow, but about everyday issues. In particular, the timely question I come before you today is how we as a Greek Parliament and you as executive authority manage the issue of the islands of Corfu. And I'm talking about the Overseas Islands. Undersecretary, the rural office of Herikussa - which, not least, with the Othon and Mathraki are the overseas islands, i.e. the northwestern part of the Greek territory - remains about two months ago without a doctor. Two months was when I had originally asked the question, and it had not been answered, Mr. Undersecretary. It's four, five now. Since November 17, 2019, after the departure of the military doctor, who has covered the needs of the local residents, the position in the rural hospital of Erikoussa remains vacant. It turns out once again that filling this position and the rest of the islands can in no way form form form part of a general rule. Because health is a public good, Minister, because especially for the inhabitants of the remote islands of the Ionian Sea, the intersectional islands - and I stress it - the existence of a rural doctor is directly intertwined with health, but also with life itself because of the multi-day exclusions that exist during the intense weather effects of winter and given the lack of any other way of connection, except by the sea, and because a similar situation exists in all three intersectional islands, you ask: How does the Ministry intend to react to the absolutely justified cry of desperation of the island's inhabitants on the one hand and, on the other hand, what is the plan from the point of view of the Ministry of Health for the French overseas islands and also the outermost regions of the country in general, taking into account the particularities of each country? Is the Ministry planning to complete and exploit the potential of the helicals in order to create the conditions for alternative transport solutions, such as the connection to the Aktion that exists to the other areas? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u102	I would ask the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Kontozamanis, to take the floor for three minutes for his prototype. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Biagis also referred to the number of questions put to the Ministry of Health, let me say, Mr President, that there is too much number and indeed the services, but we too, unfortunately, are unable to respond to the deadlines that exist and we are trying in every way to answer these questions. So I would like you to understand this. As far as the regional unity of Corfu is concerned, I would like to say that, essentially, regional unity is developing at primary level with five health centres and twenty-six regional medical offices. And regional medical offices exist in Ereikossa where the coverage of a countryside doctor is provided. In many cases, however, the invitation of interest to cover a job is brutal and we are trying to find alternatives. One of these solutions is in the cooperation we have with the Ministry of National Defence, where there is a physician. Today, the regional hospital of Eretussa is not covered by a doctor because, firstly, the nominated position of a doctor was barren and, secondly, the term of office of a doctor of a soldier who was serving ended and, at the moment, it is impossible for the Ministry of National Defence to cover the position with another gunman. We are, however, trying to meet the medical needs by moving doctors from other health structures. Specifically, doctors are being moved from regional Mathrakion and Othon doctors. In fact, this weekend one of them will be in Ereikossa. In general, I would like to tell you when it comes to covering the positions of doctors in remote, island and inaccessible areas of the country that we are trying in every way to meet the needs that arise, gaps and departures of retired doctors. There are concrete actions such as calls for positions of medical staff, subsidiary staff and staff movements from close health structures. In many cases these actions do not have the desired results, because, as I have said, many positions are atrocious. And I would like here once again to say a great thank you to the medical, nursing and other staff who meet the needs of these regions, work with deprivation all 24 hours covering the needs of the health system and support with all their powers health centres, hospitals and other health structures. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm gonna use some time from my dentistry. This problem is not solved by a ministerial decision or by a law. We must motivate the doctors who are called upon to cover these positions. There are currently specific incentives provided for by the legislation, such as the granting of a monthly allowance of EUR 400. This allowance includes the regional hospitals of Ereikossas, Mathraki and Ottoon, and to cover the place of an RIS doctor, the countryside in such areas is recognised and calculated at five times as compared to the previous service of the other doctors. The service time of specialist ESS doctors for the service of the countryside for service shall be measured as a pre-service time for their scientific development. There are other incentives provided for by the existing legislation, but we are also planning a package of measures, so that we can really give doctors the opportunity to meet these needs. I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u104	The Congressman of the Change Movement, Mr. Biagis, has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am very sorry that I cannot thank you on behalf of the Corfu people for the answer you gave me. I'm really sorry. It is an answer by which - if you wish - there does not appear to be light in the near future and there does not seem to be any sign of our fellow Ereikossa being able to wait for something. Theoretically, at least from your answer, neither a direct nor a move emerged so that you could solve the problem. And if you want, with the cooperation you referred to and which existed with the previous government, with the Ministry of National Defence - at least until winter leaves and until you make this law that, if you want, gives some conditions, a few more possibilities so that they can become more attractive to these doctors - you could cover the local society. Minister, on some islands where the transport - and especially in winter - is very difficult - does not solve the problem for the permanent residents who live there by going once a week or in the fifteen days by a rural doctor to write the medicines that our supportive farmers have to take there. The problem is solved, if you want to support the local communities, with the presence of the doctor there, in order to feel the safety of those people who are being held to "hold the Hot Gate". We are at a time when national issues are in red. We are at a time when the part called "national theme", called "shelter", called "exclusive economic zone" must be one of the first topics we have in mind. Today we are dealing with it in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Aegean. Tomorrow we'll deal with it at the Ionian. These islands, in fact, must be considered in Corfu and not just think about them when we need them as signs - if you want - to measure the continental shelf and measure the exclusive economic zone. On these islands, Minister, people live, residents live, who cannot feel the presence of a doctor in the difficult winter days. I'm not telling you what will happen in the case of illness. We better not think about it. Furthermore, the question I asked you, Mr Secretary, and I accept the workload that your Ministry has - as you quite rightly said - did not reply to me when I put it in writing as a question in order to have more time to develop your thinking, so I had to bring it as a time-consuming. There we ask you, and what you plan for the helipads on these islands, so that there is the possibility and - if you like - these people can accept one of the helicopters on the coast to provide first aid in a difficult situation. I'm really sorry, because you know very well that today - after seven months - you announced to Corfu the vice president of the hospital. You haven't yet announced the remaining board of directors, Secretary of State. It has been seven months and we really expect you to develop your health philosophy as a whole. We expected you to show us as an island region greater sensitivity. From the answers so far and much more than your policy, Mr Secretary, you have not shown that. I really didn't come here today or communicate to win a bet with my fellow citizens nor - if you want - to show up there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The articles of the Constitution, and here in 101, which speaks of the peculiarity of the islands and of what power has to show, forget them. You forget them as today's leadership, and yesterday's and yesterday's. At any time what we are voting on and accepting and which are articles of our Constitution, and which speak of the islands, the smaller islands, the island policy, the specificities of these people, will some time be taken into account by a government in its mind? This government, yours, yours, your ministry, which has a problem - which really has to do with human health, with directity, with human life - what responses does it have to give for them? I've already asked so many questions, Mr. Secretary, from Corfu. There are too many unanswered questions. They really waited and hoped for the present government by the citizens of Corfu, but on a daily basis they are disguised. Revert this climate. Go ahead and do some things. Send an army doctor to Ereikossa for the rest of the winter missing. Come in cooperation with the Department of Defense. Give me a direct, until you make this notorious piece of legislation that won't give any money. Mr. Undersecretary, you need to find other things to get doctors to make these positions attractive for doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u106	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u107	Immediately, Mr President. Please, honestly, show your sensitivity, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u108	Finish it. You've heard enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u110	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Biagi, we're not forgetting anyone, we're not leaving anyone behind. We have said many times - and we keep stressing it all the time - that we ensure equal access to health services for all citizens in every region of the country, how much more in this sensitive region, as you say, which is the border of our country. I said in my prototype that there is cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and we're trying to find a solution. It's not that there's a doctor and it doesn't go. I have developed the motives that exist and said that we will give further incentives. Many times, indeed, it's not just economical. There are incentives at the moment for doctors who will serve in barren and remote areas to then be able to have increased moleculosis to come to large hospitals in the urban areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u112	Then put something on for the specialty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u113	I therefore do not think that today's political leadership, but also every leadership of the Ministry of Health, will not take care to meet the needs of these regions. Indeed, there is this gap and I told you that we are trying to cover it. From there on, to refer to the helipads you're talking about, there is definitely also the link between the Diaponn islands and Corfu, with the EKAB. That's where we'll upgrade the EAW, because there's in our plans to be an EAW station. As far as helmets are concerned, this is also a matter of co-responsibility with another ministry and we are examining it. Because you're telling your question about the Aktio, let me tell you that the coast station that the previous government built there and celebrates about it, unfortunately has a helicopter of the Air Force, which can't fly at night. So there's a station, an aerospace station that's down. So it's a medium-sized solution. A broader design is therefore required. In any case, I think that soon the island of Ereikossa will be covered with a permanent solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u114	Before we say to the next timely question, I would just like to say that the whole issue of topical and urgent questions to be debated is eleven. One question has already been discussed. Ordering the protology warmly to reach the questions which under the Rules of Procedure may not exceed two. We cannot have a more general debate to resolve - I take the floor from the previous question - what is in our prefecture. It is therefore a warm request to both the honourable Members and the ministers who are responding, not to generalise and keep the time. We continue with the fourth under number 487/10/2020 on the second question by the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Conservation and development of public buildings in Heraklion". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Vesiropoulos, will answer. Here, Mr Vardakis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would be happy to observe this if we could speak in private with the Minister on such serious, truly important issues and not be flattened. Minister, I have tabled this question on a very serious issue. Historical buildings in Heraklion collapse. Their situation offends all of us and above all our culture. They are buildings built by Greek taxpayers who are currently charged with huge amounts, because the Municipality of Heraklion, without any space, rents. So these people that I told you before, and from their own coffin, built these buildings. I'll testify to the Minutes because you probably don't know the situation of these buildings that is reflected in photos. The Municipality of Heraklion has really sought ways to be granted for use and use by its services, for which it already leases other buildings, as I told you. It is the building of the police department in Eleftherios Venizelos, in Lions and in the building in which the old road was housed on Major Jullakis Street. Apart from exploiting the buildings for the benefit of Heraklion's society, their rehabilitation will also mark their historical emergence and the danger will be eliminated - what I am saying is very serious - that is to say, the safety of citizens. In cooperation with the Municipality of Heraklion, we submitted a relevant file to the EBRD in previous years. Here I note that the municipality's financing from the Central Self-Resources (CAP) provides for expenditure on project and investment activities. Their maintenance will therefore not be further burdened by the state budget. I think you don't want anything but this city commitment. We would therefore like you, Minister, to inform us whether you intend to examine immediately today, if possible, the concession to the Municipality of Heraklion for use and use of the abandoned public buildings located in the city, when, as I said before, the Municipality of Heraklion takes on its own exodus to restore the damage suffered by these buildings. [[At this point, MP Heraklion, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Did you see, Mr. President? I was in my time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u116	Very well, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-two students and one of them from the Webster University Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us tell you that at the moment you are not monitoring legislative work, but parliamentary control. The Member is asking and the Minister is answering. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary Mrs Dionysia - Theodora Agrinopoulou calls for a short-day absence abroad for 17 and 18 February 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u117	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. Here, Mr. Vessiropoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, in so far as the Ministry of Finance may recommend to the EBRD the concession of real estate for public purposes, you can be sure that it will. We have seen with pleasure the demands of local government. From there on for the contents of the timely question you have tabled and for the substance of the question. As far as the two buildings are concerned, I have to make the following points: The building of the former police department in Caligon Square - in the square most known as lions - and the building house housed in Major Jullakis Street has been registered as a public estate with registration number 6 in Heraklion Prefecture. According to the information we have from ETAD, the Municipality of Heraklion Crete under its number 4534/17-1-2020 document to the company requested the grant of the use of these self-contained buildings. The aim was to make these two buildings available for housing the interactive collection of the municipality, between 1941 and 1945, of the offices responsible for the exhibition of sections of the cultural directorate and of the periodic exhibitions of the extremely interesting artistic potential available by the city of Heraklion, of the municipal art collection, as well as of housing its services. The information we have in writing from the CEO of the HRC is that the company is investigating the potential use of the two buildings and their possible integration into a recovery program. I understand that this means that the municipality's request is being considered. In any case, the EBRD has competence and, in my dentext, I will mention the time that led to the creation of the surplus fund, which literally tied us to the hands, after having passed the entire real estate of the public for ninety years in the control of the surplus fund. And the EBRD, as you know, is a subsidiary of the superstition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u119	Thank you to the Minister for the time economy. Mr Vardakis has the floor for his second reading for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, first of all I should like to state the unanimous decision of the City Council in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll catch up with you, Minister. I - and I think you too - will try to have a debate that will solve a huge problem. Listen. The Municipality of Heraklion has recorded concrete proposals on the use of abandoned buildings in its requests. One of the reasons for making concrete proposals for recovery and exploitation is why the services of EBRD had withdrawn concessions and because of the high repair costs of the properties, which is borne by the Municipality of Heraklion today. However, the Municipality of Heraklion, because it has experienced and skilled executives in restoring historical buildings, can contribute to the protection and promotion of these properties. In some cases - to tell you why I said to prevent you - such as, for example, Kothari-Liopyrakis - from contributing to the 25th of August, an emblematic building, we had a happy ending, as it was granted in 2017 by the Ministry of Culture, Mr President, in the Municipality of Heraklion and has been orbited. Regarding the buildings, for which I have tabled the timely question, the Municipality of Heraklion has fully documented the purpose of recovery and the capacity to restore. The last request last month - because they have been made, Minister, and earlier requests, and I will tell you why and how they have been examined - is accompanied by a unanimous decision of the municipal council - which I will table in the Minutes - including the proposal for more uses, allowing greater flexibility in the use of property. The previous government, Mr Minister, now hear me say it all - has proved its philosophy in such matters. The Ministry of Finance, which you are today, had granted, in addition to the above that the Ministry of Culture had granted him, three peace courts, Mr. President, "filet": in the area of Hersonissos one, the other in the area of Jermiadon Lassithi and the other, please, in Agios Nikolaos Heraklion. Now you understand why I told you before, Minister, that you have no right to refuse. I therefore call on you to respond positively to the Municipality of Heraklion, even if the concession must be made in the form of rental and the payment of a symbolic fee. The previous government told you what he had granted. I will tell you, Minister, that is why I said I would catch up with you - to look into the archives of your ministry to see that the former Ministry of Finance - because you were implied for the superstition - had granted public buildings belonging to the Ministry of Finance and had joined the EBRD and the superstition. They had been granted buildings even of the U.S. and of the GOI. So, Minister, please see the subject more positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, you really act like you don't know what happened to public real estate, after the new and painful memorial that you brought to the country in July 2015. An inappropriate memorandum, led by your party's policy, the disastrous negotiation in the first half of 2015. You remember the falsified memory of a referendum and your illusions that were ultimately not delusional. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] It was a deception of the Greek people who paid a very expensive price, trusting your announcements that you would abolish the memorandum. Because at the end of the day, as I said, you finally brought in a new and more painful memorandum. [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] You put your signature in the law on the creation of the supergovernment, which had not been understood by any other government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u123	You've learned the poem!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Famelle, if you have patience, listen to me. With L.4389/2016 that SYRIZA's government voted, we led to the mortgage of all public property for ninety-nine years as a pledge to lenders. In particular, paragraph 4 of Article 196, states that the ownership and ownership of all the real estate assets of the Greek State in EBRD, with the exception of sanctuary, beaches, coastal areas, water areas, Ramsar and NATURA areas, archaeological sites, purely forest land, etc. However, in paragraph 5 of the same Article 196, it is stated that even the properties exempted from the transfer remain in the possession of the Greek State, under the control of the Hypothetreme, which is responsible for their management. Remember that the EBRD is a subsidiary of the excess fund. In accordance with Article 196, for the EBRD to retransmit any real estate to the Greek State, the signature of the Supervisory Board is required. The Supervisory Board, which runs the Supreme Court, consists of five members, three of which are selected by the Greek State, while the two others, including the President, are selected by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism. But for a decision to be taken there must be a vote in favour of the four of the five members. In order to relocate property to the State, therefore, the three votes of the equal members chosen by the Greek State are not enough, but there is a need for the assent of the lenders, i.e. at least one of the two members appointed to the supreme court by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism. Of course, the EBRD can itself sell a real estate in or without consideration to a private or an EBRD. It operates autonomously and independently as a subsidiary of the surplus fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u125	You said that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u126	Things would be different, Mr. Colleague, only if you didn't vote for L.4389/2016, with which all the public real estate in the superstate passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u127	So you'd rather fall...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u128	I didn't say that, but some people have responsibilities for this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u129	The first question under number 481/4-2-2020 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Agreement to remove reafforestation in the perimeter forest of Thessaloniki". Mr Demetrios Economou will reply to the timely question by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u130	You will allow me, Mr President, to ask you my question about the absence of the Minister who has responsibility for the portfolio, because the Minister, without prejudice to this, does not have responsibility for the environment. He's in charge of planning and town planning. Yes, Mr President, if you would like to convey to the Bureau that we have too many unanswered questions from the Ministry of the Environment. I tell you very quickly that we had two in September, three in October, three in December, four in January. Two of these are requests for documents. In fact, I do not underestimate the State Secretary, but the Minister does not come to answer environmental issues. We need to look at this issue. It is about parliamentary function. We share the same interests as Members. I'm transferring this to you. Look at it in the Bureau, because I think it is unacceptable, when one of the requests for documents we have made is for the amended study submitted by the Hellenic FRYS. Why is she hiding? The House is entitled to know, Mr President. As far as the issue of the topical and urgent question is concerned, Mr President, Mr Karamanlis knows very well. Besides, it's his business. Mr. Mitsotakis at the Thessaloniki Exhibition referred to the construction of the internal regional, the so-called fly over, a project that, Mr. Deputy Minister, is not in the planning of the Ministry, is not in the country's strategic infrastructure plan. That's what I mean by planning. In fact, his environmental study has been rejected by the Council of State. In other words, the Prime Minister has referred to a project which certainly does not serve the city, because he has other priorities in the strategic infrastructure plan that was ahead of us and our government. In fact, he underestimated all the other works and the environment. From our parliamentary control, Mr President, we have seen that Mr Karamanlis confirms that this project is not in the transport strategy. It joins the eastern region with environmental permission in the planning of European Union funding. Also, there is the plating of the road to the airport, but too many others who need the Thessalonikins to get rid of the regional area. It follows, therefore, from the written parliamentary scrutiny that in 2017 the Council of State had rejected environmental licensing, because we have issues of breaking the resurrected area. In fact, there are many other issues, Mr President, recreational issues, anti-military protection, sport. So in order to cover this sloppiness, the administration comes back and asks the services to make decisions, contrary to what we had taken. In 2011, i.e. the services gave an opinion that the resurrected character should not be removed and calls on the administration to lift the resurrected character. In fact, after the visit of the Minister for the Environment, Mr Hatzidakis, to the area, he announced that funding would also be provided to enable the restoration to be made, because we have the blow to the bark of the insect, which we had gone and thought should be regenerated and restored. It hides from the citizens, secretly from the municipalities comes the government to lift the resurrected character, when many scientific bodies - professors of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, the Council of State - have objected to both feasibility and transport - but also environmental. So the question is very simple. Are you going to make this anti-environmental arrangement, too? Will the government proceed to the lifting of the resurrected character from the perimeter forest of Thessaloniki because of a rough announcement by the Prime Minister? Will you underestimate all the principles of art and science that European regularity observes? Will you proceed to the harvesting of tens of acres in Shaiksu, which is suffering from the bark insect, instead of saving the perimeter forest, why is it environment and protection for Thessaloniki? Will you sign the Decision approving environmental conditions that the Council of State rejected in 2017? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I am obviously speaking on behalf of Mr Hatzidakis, but the tradition of the ministers not always coming to this question is not new. It's much older. The Minister is, however, absent because of his specific obligations and must fulfil them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Economou, I said the written questions were not answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u134	As far as this issue is concerned, this is not, first of all, a rough and unsatisfactory announcement by the Prime Minister. In April 2019, the Ministry of Infrastructure approved 130m euros for the preparation of studies on the traffic upgrading of Thessaloniki, and specifically for the internal regional and external ring. It was April 1st, but I don't think it was funny. This is a 'bona fide' decision. Therefore, it is not something that had not been studied or decided on today’s Government. In addition to this, however, in Thessaloniki's Single Strategic Transport Development Plan 2020, the project is specifically planned. In addition to the prediction from studies of the real feasibility of the project, I would like to say that in 2011, at the peak of the crisis, traffic loads had fallen so badly, that the existing regional function was satisfactory. Today things are completely different. Already the district works several hours in saturation conditions. If we make a projection to the future - because these projects are not done within one or two years, of course - the regional problem will have a terrible problem if there is no specific project. Therefore, there are studies and feasibility is given. On the issue of reforestation and environmental study, the 2011 environmental study has been cancelled by the Council of State, if I remember correctly. But why? The feasibility of the project was not disputed, but for the reason that the afforestation had not taken place, as is standard practice, and that is how it should be done. Reafforestation lifts are systematically carried out for such projects. Already decentralised administration has called for the reafforestation to proceed with the reafforestation of the region. This request is being examined and will be answered by the services. That's a very recent application. It's within February, so we'll soon have the view of the agency. From that point on, I do not know which scientific bodies are against the project, but there are specific studies which provide for it. If we go to the question of protecting forest land, the use of forest areas which are limited in any case for basic infrastructure projects is a consistent practice and are necessary, not only in Greece. In all the countries of the world the basic infrastructure, when it has to pass through forests, also pass through forests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u135	I shall continue in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Famelos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Undersecretary, I have the parliamentary control and your colleague, Mr. Karamanlis, who says that by his decision on October 1, 2019, the project was introduced into the planning of the Ministry. It is another strategic transport plan and another programme of the Minister, which is his political choice. Your Government has made a political choice in retrospect, I have the document and if you want me to submit it in the Minutes. Another strategic transport planning and, obviously, planning is introduced into a retrospective project. What I neglected to ask you is very important and it is this: I told you that the services had taken a negative view in 2011. You are now saying that they hadn't been consulted. We're really wondering, what interests you guys are making in this announcement. The interests of the Thessalonians or the interests of manufacturers? Because we would like you to present us with the series of studies and contractors, which have shown interest in this project, so that we can finally understand what interests you are serving. But we wonder if you're finally going to land Shah Sue, because that's the question for you. The others concern Mr Karamanlis, we will discuss them in parliamentary scrutiny. Are you talking about the harvesting and you are now committing, in public - why did you say - to the felling of the suburban forest of Shahik Soo, which has a specific environmental function for Thessaloniki, without going ahead with the restoration and the actions that the Minister himself has committed himself? The Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has committed himself to 500,000 euros, which will be given for the upgrading of the Shah Sou, which is at risk of the bark insect that is constantly limited. In fact, there are many complaints and publications today that the restoration of the forest and the treatment of the bark insect is delayed and they have already reached Philippeio the dried trees and there is a reproduction of infection. So while we have these from the insect, you are now coming, in addition to all these things and the delay in logging - for which very intelligent but rather unaware of the reality, the Minister, in going there, in the report, said that they are being delayed by the previous political leadership, from us - and you are being accountable, because you are delaying the projects to deal with and prevent and protect the forest from the bark insect and, furthermore, you are going to decide to fill tens of acres of Sheikh's acres. I don't know what that looks like to you, but in Thessaloniki it sounds very bad. Furthermore, we know that you have delayed all levels of forestry policy. That is why it is a problem that Mr Hatzidakis is missing. Because you do not have the power to answer me. Can you answer me why don't you proceed with the prevention of forest fires, which was a policy formulated with money from the Public Investment Programme, five hundred and fifty recruitments, 140 million euros? Can you answer me why you stopped the employment of five thousand workers in the fire-fighting social work programme? Can you answer me why the study has not yet proceeded with the identification of the critical forest-surface assembly areas, where there is a great problem, from fires in particular, in peri-urban areas? Can you answer me why the Minister recently announced that he will revise the definition of forests by questioning both forest maps and the constitutional preservation of the forest? And, obviously, you can't answer me how you can legally amend a presidential decree that has been passed by the Council of State on the classification of the forest. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But the question for you again, Mr. Undersecretary, is as follows: How sloppy you have announced a project and with how unenvironmental your Government will have to do with the Shah Soo, while Shah Soo and the city's surroundings need protection. Because if you want to protect traffic and traffic conditions, you would proceed to the eastern foreign regional, which is licensed to plan and predict, if you want, funding. So we want you now to make the choice, to commit now that the fishing of Shah Soo will not proceed, that you will not license a project that will effectively destroy the Shah Soo, combined with the danger that is now being run by the bark insect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. Let's get things back in order. The work is absolutely essential, as I said before, for the city's traffic organisation, a city of one million, which we want to play in all the Balkans. So such a city, the second largest Greek city, cannot have sufficient traffic. In some cases all governments in the past and yours used forest land for significant investments in the public interest, infrastructure or other investment. So there is no question of principle. There are major projects of public interest, which in some cases - it is not pleasant, but necessary - must pass through forests. The fly over, of course, is the mildest way. It is, that is, the way in which you use less additional forest land to upgrade the traffic capacity of a road project, which exists and works.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u140	Tell us where you're going to put the tolls in Shahik Su, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u141	You put them in Egnatia!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u142	Colleague, Minister, please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u143	I answer what you have asked, and you ask another question instead of listening to my answer. So I told you that the work is overripe and necessary. Now for the traffic aspect, in addition to what I have said, what is not necessary in forests is to legalise arbitrary settlements. I remember the settlements, a law of the previous government that fell on the Council of State. This law attempted to legitimize arbitrary settlements in the forests.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u144	You're incapacitated again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Comrade, please, let the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u146	You'll allow me to think you don't know what you're talking about. I know it was a bill through which the legalisation of arbitrary buildings in the forests was attempted. That is why it has fallen into the Council of State and that has indeed been very problematic, although there are of course social aspects in this matter. I do not doubt that. To accept that we will legalise a hundred and fifty thousand arbitrary in the forests with the corresponding forest coverage, forest destruction, and to discuss whether for the needs of Thessaloniki, the second largest city in the country, we will use a small section of the forest for a necessary road infrastructure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u147	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u148	As far as is necessary for this road infrastructure, infinitely less than the settlements. When the study is done, you will be answered. Because I am an engineer, I realize that it has nothing to do with the area required for the fly over the areas required for the settlements. I don't think there's any question about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u149	Does Sheich Soo have any settlements? What do you say, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Colleague, we're not opening a debate. Please, you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u151	We're interested in all the forests in the country. It's not much worse and someone better. Forest settlements in forests are found in too many forests, which are as important as Shahih Su. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, too, Minister. Subsequently under number 485/7-2-2020, the second time question of the first cycle of the MP Lauration of the Movement of Change, Evangelia Liikoulis, to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "A immediate solution is required to the issue of the settlement of Kouloura". Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, we have a very serious issue to deal with in the area of Koulura of the Municipality of Temps of the Larissa Regional Unit. It is a settlement of poor, poor people who, once, were not trespassers, had titles in their hands, bought land in this area and were created around 1985 a settlement of some seventy-seven acres. These citizens - as I said before - were and are of low incomes. Nevertheless, they built a settlement there, which has absolutely the elements of a rhetorical plan. He's meeting all this. They have been connected in all ways with modern rmotomy, unobstructed road network and so on. C. JUDGMENTS Unfortunately, the legislation made a very big zig zag, created fait accompli, took back laws and brought them back from the beginning. He told them at some point that they would have the right to buy these land, to have a settlement. At this moment they are literally in the air. With the latest news that the Ministry has made you public, you know the legislation, I have mentioned it in my timely question, not to repeat - unfortunately these people are invited by local municipalities to pay unthinkable fines. For example, for a hundred square meters, you have to pay EUR 50,000 a fine to build and EUR 25 000 a year to maintain a fine, that is, we are talking about a straight bulldozer, but we have something very strange that is happening, unfortunately, while it has been classified as ZOE II, it is about tracks, parts, that are small spots of this dense, and not all, because these houses that have been erected before 1990, will not be broken down according to the worst scenario - say that all of this is being broken down - and that the rest should be demolished. We therefore have total insanity over a process - and I shall end, Madam President - which has been kept by the various governments that have been through since 1985, which have not been given a clear answer to the people who are legal, who are illegal and how they can legalise the property that they have for so many decades now. Nowadays, your ministry is being called upon with sensitivity to come to this particular problem and to give a real solution. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We want to see the direction that exists, Minister, and see how people will be able to save their property, which they - I repeat - respect all the terms of modern rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Let's start with some data to know what we're talking about. First of all, it's about trespasses. If there were no infringements but they had legally purchased these areas, it would not be a matter, as requested by them, of granting them that public area by means of a procedure whereby this may be done subject to conditions. So they're trespasses, unless you have any evidence that it's not, so no concession is required. The second is that this is arbitrary. The arbitrary all over Greece is regulated, well or badly, by some legislative framework and certain rules. The rules applicable to others must also apply to our fellow citizens. I understand that there are needs, but there are corresponding needs from others. Many have resorted to arbitrary construction due to needs, but obviously there can be no selective treatment against others when they are under the same conditions and conditions. From there on, in this area, an important part of the area on the beach is wetland for which a specific environmental study is currently being carried out. This specific environmental study must be completed in the first half of the year and will specify terms and protective measures. However, it certainly seems difficult on the beach - without wanting to predetermin what the study will say - to allow such residential development and thus allow for the creation of buildings or the settlement of buildings which are arbitrarily existing. However, I have a reservation on this because I have not dealt with this matter, and there may ultimately be a different viewpoint in the study. In the remaining section, in addition to all others, there is the residential control area which also does not allow building. What can be done about all this? That's the data. Also, another given is that the area is also a KAZ, a wildlife shelter, where wildlife shelters are also banned from building settlements and extending existing ones. This particular settlement is not a legitimate settlement, of course, it does not even exist in the 1981 census, so it is not a settlement. It has no settlement status. That's some data. What can be done? What possibilities are there? Firstly, we must wait for the specific environmental study to identify the limits within which some intervention could be made in the region. I told you he's in progress. Secondly, arbitrarily unauthorised, namely arbitrary category five, can be settled under conditions that do not apply in this case and until June of this year. This is a government decision. It has been announced several times and it is a government decision to put an end to arbitraryness. Of course, by settling earlier arbitrages - one and a half million arbitrarily across Greece - but if some red lines are not set and one of the red lines is also it, we will simply have a continuous reproduction of the arbitrary buildings. This one has to stop once. I also say to you this: arbitraryly after 2011 anyway, it is forbidden to take care of them. Since the information we have from the competent authorities, arbitrary constructions are still under way today. Even if there were no other difficulties that I have told you, it would not be possible to settle and remain. The rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u156	My colleague Mrs Lykolis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us make it clear - I have written it in my question - that I did not want to repeat myself, Mr Minister, and I did not mention it - that everything that we are discussing is with our full agreement on environmental protection and what has to do with the region. Let's agree on that. Because you spent there in your answer at some point in time and you don't really need it. The second point. For 2011, for the non-legislative of arbitrary parties, we are also in agreement. Before 2011 we have been talking since 1985. There have been two speeds here, however. This, which was from 1990 onwards, when ZOE was designated as 2, D3 zone - D3 supports experts, not I - I am legal, I am neither an environmentalist, nor an expert on them - wrongly, as they say and I hope that the study will at last tell us the truth if it is, in fact, D3 or not, because the D3 means that it should have specific characteristics: the area inappropriate for housing development, due to flooding, soil hazards, direct contact with nature protection, etc. Here, then, the experts who came to the region said that the one-twin thing was like this, but it really isn't. Let's get out of this, too. So the study you are doing will show us the right way, and we agree with that. Minister, I have also mentioned in my prototype that here - I did not ask this question to be a opposition, but to find a solution to the issue, frankly - we have a settlement of two speeds, however. Some are from 1980 to 1985 and will be exempted from this legislation which the Government promotes and brings you, and some who are after 1990 will be forced into this regime, but we are talking about the same region. So it's bipolar. Is it absurd to say that I have the same area, I want to protect it - I imagine you understand my spirit - and I do what at the same time? I'm imposing exhaustive fines, so I'm just smashing down some houses and between those from 1985, I'm leaving them? Does this indicate that even if it was D3, ZOE 2, are you protecting the area? How? I cannot understand that and no expert can understand it and I think that you will certainly give a solution in the right direction. In conclusion, however, because at first you said, Minister, that they are trespassers - arbitrary trespassers - to tell you that they are not trespassers because they have market titles. That these people were misled, because they bought the particular land by some who had no legal titles or concessions that could escape this regime, is another story. To conclude, however, with your tolerance, Mr President, as regards the history of the memorandum which they have already tabled. You told me that you didn't see exactly what she was like, but similar and many of them. I call on you, Secretary-General, frankly, to see this case, and the Secretary-General of your Ministry saw it, with great interest, because it has something special. Go - come from 1988, in 1990, station in 2004, where among the Ministries they said to these people "we will now make the land down and buy it" and the other one they said "nothing happens, wait to see and characterize this area". The state's responsibilities are therefore specific within time. We are also coming today and we want to put a'red line' with you. To have justice, to have sovereignty, and above all not to cause common sense. It is not possible to say 'I leave half, I take the other half, to protect the environment that is mentioned in the same area'. So, at least, your ministry is dealing with the issue at the moment. We have a great deal of interest in seeing the next moves and I am sure that you will be sensitive to this matter and will give the right solution for the region, of course protecting the environment, the aquatic habitats throughout the country and not only there, but also the people who have built their lives since 1980. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Member, Mr Georgios Vartenmenos, is seeking permission from a few days' absence abroad, from 16-2-2020 to 19-2-2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u159	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes, in order to be second-guessed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. Look, some of the things you say obviously have a basis. In fact, what you're telling me is that the state's timeless arbitrary policy has enormous contradictions. There are responsibilities almost all over the political spectrum, because depending on what position different parties had in power systems, far more than most parties with alpha or beta were supporting or undermining the arbitrary ones. That is not what I've been saying for years. I was writing that as a professor, and therefore I will not stop saying it. There is a timeline and a cross-party responsibility. The accumulated problems of arbitrary and contradictory decisions at times, the front - back have also created terrible injustices. It is true that some manage to be subject to favorable arrangements and in this way to settle or pay less fines for arbitrary ones and others pay more. That's true. Not only in the area, but elsewhere. These are realities and I do not deny them. The question, however, is that in this area today's policy on arbitrary and previous governments - this same legislation exists, has not been changed - results in these inequalities. What can be done in the context of logic and environmental protection will be done. We are waiting for this special environmental study. To the extent that it will show that there is some room for modification of the ECE, because there is a procedure to amend the ECE - and even the Ministry starts not only for the region but for many other regions of the country such modifications with modern urban planning - we will see the issue. But right now, I can't promise anything. I just want to tell you this. Years ago he had come to my office as an engineer, a Cretan hotelier, who told me this. He was cleared for a two-storey hotel. He built two more arbitrary floors and nothing happened. The opposite also had permission for a two - storey hotel and built four arbitrary floors. Nothing happened again. When he saw the opposite, he decided to drop two more, because he thought it was unfair for the opposite to have four arbitrary floors and two. But with that logic, we're not going anywhere. There's got to be some red lines somewhere, some limits. Some will necessarily benefit more and some less. Everyone's benefiting. Some people who have been using for forty years arbitrary and in an area where - I am sure I accept what you say people have been deceived, but they have not ceased to be a public area - they have not benefited for for forty or thirty years from something that has brought them incomes indirectly or directly, and others who did not follow this process could not do so. So we also need to see this aspect. There are others who did not arbitrarily. There were a lot of poor people inside of them. So we will do everything we can, but in the context of such a logic, that we must slowly stop this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u161	We continue with the fourth with number 480/4-2-2020 a top-level question from the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "It is a disgraceful situation since the operation of the Gender Chants". Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our question concerns a point on which you have been asked many times. Finally, the famous "ASPROFOS" studies on the impact of the operation of CYTAs on the Gender were published. These are the well-known studies carried out for the Violence Municipality since November 2015, studies that were made public after so many years and only under the direct threat of criminal consequences for those who possessed them and who hide them, I would say, criminally, for so many years. I must say that that is precisely why I had intervened as a MEP in the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions since March 2018 on the Waste Process, the harmful environmental burden and the concealment of studies by the Mayor of Florida. For the completeness of the procedure, you will allow me to present these two studies and the excerpt of the Minutes of the debate in the European Parliament. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's come to the studies. Their findings, Minister, are appalling. The result is ‘large and criminal excesses in relation to the institutionalised limits on the prices of gases, soil pollutants and aquifers’, and it is referred to as a ‘appropriate environmental status of the area considered in the ten thousand acres’. Radioisotopes are still being identified, the emissions of which - again on the record - "exceed the upper limits of the ionizing radiation, resulting in a major environmental problem - pollution of the soil, air and all the water resources of the region - with a direct effect on human health, with an increase in all forms of cancer of all living organisms in the region". Mr Minister, there should already be a general alarm and, I would say, the services responsible for the environment and health have been seized, with immediate action. So it is urgent but also crucial that there should be concrete answers from the government, and I ask you: what immediate measures does it intend to take to protect the environment and the health of the citizens and to deal with the situation that has been revealed since the publication of these studies? Will disciplinary, criminal and disciplinary responsibilities be sought and attributed to any person involved in the unacceptable multiannual occult of these studies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u163	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Because other questions have been raised recently about the Race to which I have answered and in which answers have been given to the general policy that the government is currently promoting, the revision of the National Waste Management Plan, the regional plan, the three areas that are being put forward for tender in order to finish - but not immediately - I will not say that again. I think that's familiar. They have been said several times. I'm going on this one. What these studies say is nightmareary, you're right. I said last time that we were looking for them, and now we were able to take them. There was one view that there were no such studies anywhere. Now that we've found them, it's nightmareous what they say. This does not mean, however, that it is not accurate nor does it mean that it is also inaccurate, of course, by definition. They want an investigation. We are investigating this issue. But especially for the radioactive waste aspect, what I have said before - I think Mr Arseni - is that there is an answer from the National Committee on Atomic Energy, which says that this study has methodological weaknesses such as to make it unreliable. The most valid and competent body has told us this thing. Everyone can make a mistake, perhaps, but that is the view that we have on the quality of this study. Still looking at her study. I'll mention something else. Perhaps I should keep it for the dentistry, so that the "SUN" doesn't come out again and tells me I didn't know what I was saying. In any case, I had said to the previous question in reply to Mr Arsenis - when he told me that since 2004 he had not done any autopsy, on-the-spot checks by the Committee on Atomic Energy - that I did not know that. I have been pushed for it, that is to say, that I admitted that I did not know it - but I prefer it when something I do not know, to say it - and I said that I will try, if that is the case, to ask the Committee on Atomic Energy to now proceed to such autopsies today. That's what's gonna happen, the Department starts with it. I have contacted the relevant Secretary-General - because it is not my closest concern - who will ask the Committee on Atomic Energy to make self-conscious measurements on the spot, to see if there is the issue of radioactive waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u165	Here, Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, you will allow me to make a brief comment with respect to you. You answer to me and not Mr Arseni. Mr. Arsenis may have asked you what he wanted. I ask you other things. I appreciate, of course, the fact that you have really shown a special interest in the study, because I remember the debate that has taken place here. He mentioned it to you and you said you'd look for it and I'm really glad you saw it. But I think, Minister, that to hide such studies for so many years is a criminal practice, which shows a total lack of political responsibility and social awareness in order to serve obviously certain interests. Now that's what's happening. Vision appears the false argument that these studies are supposed to be unreliable. Do you know how far these studies have been paid, Minister? They cost the citizens of the Tribal 25,000 euros. That's how the city paid. If, in fact, they were unreliable or even suspected of this, what, in your view, would be the elementary reaction of a good administration, whether we are talking about local government, or are we talking about the government? First, with fundamental social and political responsibility, taking all appropriate measures on the basis of the dramatic findings of these studies and, secondly, the immediate preparation of new studies to verify the findings or, in any event, of the actual situation. You said before that you did. Instead, here we have something unprecedented that is also outrageous. We order a study, we do not like its results. That's what the city does, and that's what it sounds like here. Because, precisely, we are sure of their reliability, we are not ordering new studies. We don't care criminally about the consequences. We take advantage of the study and keep it secret from everyone, and in the debate I mentioned in the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions on 21-3-2018 I then asked for these studies. Then the regional spokesman, do you know what he said to me? Nothing. According to commonly said, the island has left the island. You, Minister, said from the Step of the House that you had asked the mayor - you said so - for this study and replied that there was no. All this from your side, in my view, needs to be investigated and criminally and disciplinaryly, because you should have given it to you, because you are his supervisor. The prices of the pollutants were therefore measured in detail. I will repeat them, because they must be heard. Criminal excesses were found, reflecting a desperate environmental situation. The concentration of dangerous and completely harmful elements shall be documented. Specific references are: heavy metals, aromatic hydrocarbons, dioxins and furans, benzene, toluene, phenols, methane, ammonium, etc. And in this respect, there is no question of this. There are also many radioactive elements with concentrations that cause radiation much greater than natural radiation, resulting in irreparable damage to everyone's health, as I said, in living organisms. And yet, in relation to radioactivity, there is no other study than that for the Gender HYTA. So there's no study to take down all this. The latest study by the Greek Atomic Energy Commission, do you know when it was done? In 2004, that is, 16 years ago. Is this how the state works, Minister, in relation to the protection of the health of the citizens, as we here, as parliamentarians, that it should be done? It is obvious, Minister, that we are facing a timeless crime, at the expense of the environment and the health of the citizens of the entire Attica basin, you will allow me to say. This crime is timeless. It is carried out by direct automobile or full coverage of all relevant services, authorities, local authorities, ministries and governments. The continued operation of the Race, and indeed, in this way, it proves, not merely problematic, but literally criminal. We are not in the phase where it is sufficient to conclude the problem and it is not time either for reassurance or for avoidance. It's not even time for deferrals. It is the last hour of government responsibility to deal with the situation with immediate measures to protect the environment, but above all, the health of citizens. I am sure, Minister, that you, in particular, will not be indifferent to that. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u167	Before replying, Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers attending the 10th Municipal School of Trikalon (first Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Sacorafa, I think you're from the Trikala.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u168	Not only am I from Trikala, but it's also the primary school I was studying at. So let me particularly welcome the children in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u169	This is particularly excellent. Here, Minister, you have the floor to reply to your denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Where should I start? To start with what you said about the reliability of the study. This does not mean that the study was a fraud. There are cases where a scholar may have done his work honestly - I do not know in this case, but I do not exclude it - but methodologically to suffer the study, which means that the conclusions are not reliable, without meaning that this was done deliberately. Well, I can't know that. I do not know whether there are responsibilities at this level. However, studies are often carried out by trustworthy general bodies or scholars in certain specific cases not to have the necessary credibility, especially on such serious issues, which are directly related to public health. However, because this is where we are talking about questioning the study, we are not sure that this is not the case. As I said, we are also starting in the case of radioactivity and for the health side of the local population concrete research. From there on, more generally responsibilities, which concern how we have arrived after so many years in the need, well or bad, to maintain the Race for almost four more years, are really scary. I think that goes beyond the specific question and the possibility of replying. I do not doubt that the responsibilities are horrifying and that there are many who will have had consequences for Attica. The waste story in Greece is related to the arbitrary story to which I referred earlier. They are timeless weaknesses of the Greek political class, with multiple responsibilities, on many levels. They can't stop it by spinning a button, unfortunately. I wish we could close the Race directly, but it is not possible, because the side effects will be even worse than the continuation of its operation, with all the mess and the consequences that arise. So all I can say is that we will do everything we can to speed up the process of creating an alternative and to identify the real risks to the extent that they exist and to take immediate measures if it is established that these risks really exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u171	We continue with the third with number 491/10/220 per annum question from the Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Recycling in the Municipality of Vyrona - Subsidiary Recycling Fee." Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I do not know if you know this, but in the Municipality of Vyrona, Attica, it has been in place for many years - since November 2008 - a screening system at the source of four materials. The peculiarity is that this municipality operates a self-powered recycling system, without the participation of the well-known private company with the blue cans of the Hellenic Recycling Corporation S.A... As you know, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece participates with 35% and with 65% of various industrial and commercial enterprises, which, according to the law, are obliged to ensure that their packaging and products are collected and used. In the Municipality of Vyrona, by sorting at the source, recovery of clean materials is achieved up to 95% - it is a stunning percentage - and no more sorting is needed, as is the case with blue bins. With this practice, in addition to the environmental benefit, there is an economic benefit to the municipality, since it has a lower cost for landfill charges, since the volume of recyclable materials does not result in landfill. It also collects the price from the disposal of recyclable materials in free trade. Due to the self-sustaining recycling system implemented by the municipality, the corresponding subsidy from the recycling fee paid by the companies concerned should also be provided for in accordance with Law 2939/2001. It is a legislative uncertainty, since the subsidy is attributed only to the private companies involved in the recycling process and because of their involvement. The non-performance of the subsidy therefore means unjustified, unequal and unequal treatment of the municipality as well as of any municipality that chooses the self-management of waste and recycling. That is why we believe that there should be an amendment to the legal and regulatory framework in order to enable the municipality of Vyrona to receive the corresponding subsidy from the recycling fee and every municipality of the country that chooses to make this management. So I ask you what immediate actions you intend to take in order to enable the Municipality of Byron or any other municipality of the country to receive the corresponding subsidy from the recycling fee. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. I have written a protology and a denology. The theology describes the Ministry's policy on waste. But I will not read it, because we have said it on several occasions. I'll start with secondary. The second part of the question is: we did not know, as a ministry, that the specific municipality is doing what you have mentioned. To the extent that they are happening is an extremely pleasant news. There is no such thing happening in many places in Greece. So it's one of the questions that gives me pleasure in answering, although it's not in my narrow object. I am not questioning the data you mentioned, just the Single Cross-State Association of Attica Waste recently reported that the recycling rate in the Municipality of Vyrona was only 5.35%. I am not questioning what you are saying to me, it is simply contradictory. I guess you're right. In any case, we commit ourselves to dealing with this issue, we will consider whether the Municipality of Vyrona has made such an important initiative for recycling. Already with a law that has been in force since the beginning of this year, municipalities that achieve a large recycling rate will pay less, have a less economic burden and consider positive incentives, so that they are the pioneers, not only by paying less, but also by other means. So this question is a very pleasant one. I hope I won't have to answer that again. We're committed to looking for the evidence. If you can mediate or we will also address the municipality directly to bring us these. As long as it is true, we will also move in the direction you are proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u175	Mrs Sakorafa has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u176	Now you're making me very difficult, Minister. Usually, parliamentarians need to talk about sounding. Because you also started from your dentistry, I will go to the end of the position, which I wanted to do, which is a policy on the substance. I would like to tell you that the Workers' Association of the Municipality of Vyrona, whose delegation - headed by the president - is following the debate, has a structured view and presents a comprehensive proposal for the management of waste. In presenting this proposal, it has also published the relevant form, which I would like to present to you in the Minutes, because it will indeed be very important to you. The day before yesterday, they had an excellent day and presented it. I would like to say that I am very excited about such initiatives that workers can take first and foremost, interested in their work, but also about the quality of life of citizens and, therefore, about the city itself and that is very important. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned form, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What I want to say, however, is that for us it is paradoxical, it is unreasonable that they cannot get this end, as they do all the work. I think it is right that some amendments should come to an end - and, if you want - and your own thinking and work, so that they have not just been neglected, but have the potential to move further with an economic - anyway - benefit from a process which the private companies are doing and do not carry out. Thank you, Minister, for being so positive. But you should know that I'm going to bother you again on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u177	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u178	At the beginning, I agree and we will look at how, apart from the case of the Municipality of Vyron, such initiatives will be strengthened even more than they have already been today. This policy is already under way. In the case of the Municipality of Vyrona, if these are the case, we will take the necessary steps immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u179	We will continue with the following two topical questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. The third question with number 492/10/220 will be discussed in the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliardos, with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Financially incomprehensible and environmentally disastrous work to privatise Heraklion airport, relocation to Kastelli". Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've said it all. The previous government signed a contract to partially privatise Heraklion airport, through its transfer to Kastelli, despite the reactions. Your Government, which is similar to the movement of climate change, continues the same course, despite the increased cost, later found, and the environmental disaster. We were not present during the parliamentary debate on the project, so we would like, on the occasion of new developments and the start of construction, to address this issue and ask for its reassessment. In particular, the airport in Kastelli Crete is proposed to dismantle the city of Heraklion by flights. It will require an area of twenty-two acres, of which seven thousand acres for the airport itself and a new eighteen km connection route. In this respect, the entire plain of Kastelion will be affected, an area of three hundred and ninety-four acres, in which there are three million thousand olive trees, which produce many tons of virgin olive oil. At least two hundred thousand high-age olive trees will be ripped out, hills leveled, the flora and wild fauna of the region will be hit, the water resources will be contaminated, and additional water will be needed, as some two thousand cubic days per day, which will be deprived of agriculture. It is estimated that the fuels consumed will reach seventy - five thousand tonnes of kerosene, produce two hundred thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide and three thousand tonnes of hazardous gases, such as nitrates, monoxide, sulphur compounds, etc. The exhaust gases will fall into the inhabitants and crops of the plain of Castelli, so they will pollute agricultural production, as I put them later in the Minutes. Obviously, the lives of the seven thousand people in the region will be affected, many of whom - farmers in particular - will lose their jobs. On the contrary, in order to carry Heraklion airport to Kastelli, it has been proposed to improve its capacity in Heraklion by increasing the length of the route to three thousand two hundred metres, at least three hundred metres within the sea, such as the Macedonian airport. The cost of the extension is estimated at around EUR 400 million. It is, in other words, much less than EUR 1.5 billion, which is being discussed at the airport of Castelli. It is estimated that there is more room for expansion into the existing location, after military use of the airport stopped. Our questions are as follows: Does Kastelion's proposed airport fit the European Union's policies, as well as your Government, in terms of climate specificity? Secondly, has there been a review of the environmental study of the new airport? If so, what are these? And, thirdly, what is your position on the alternative solution to extend the airport to Heraklion airport, where it is linked to the BOAK and to tram and railway studies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u181	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, your question comes just one week after the very important new airport building ceremony in Kastelli. Honestly, I cannot comprehend your concerns, but also your party, for such an important investment. Let me explain something to understand how these works are being launched. You say this airport will have a negative environmental footprint in the wider area of Heraklion Prefecture. But this work has been licensed and environmental impact studies have been carried out. How could the previous government have done so by law of the state and signed the concession? I would remind you that the previous government, because it was supposedly left, had an allergy to bringing private people into public works. With great ease, after the 2016 'columb', he did - and well he did - a concession contract, which is, in fact, a public and private partnership. Therefore, in fact, whether some agree, or others disagree, it has now come to an end by the competent courts and the Greek Parliament, because, as you well know, the concession contract becomes state law. So, if you want to assume now that there was a project that was supposedly pro-environmental government - you know, environmental sensitivities often have an exaggeration element - and it was cancelling this project, which has been being discussed and launched for fifteen, twenty years, do you understand what - beyond the region's economy - the legal consequences of the concessionaire's claims, even now that we have also signed the loan agreement with the European Investment Bank, which gives us the 180 million, which is necessary for the state contribution? Unfortunately, Greece does not have 180 million to get from the EIF to participate in the project, so it gets a loan from the European Investment Bank. These were agreed in this Parliament in 2017 and with the unanimous opinion, if you would like, assent from the Opposition, because New Democracy is a party of reasoned liberalism. We want the private, we want the public. In Castelli, that was achieved. You caught an issue, which I think has its essence too. I also call on the technical and political world and institutions of Crete to discuss seriously what will happen to the old - it will be old in four years - 'Nikos Kazantzakis airport'. Will the tragedy of the Greek be repeated as a farce and we will be discussing in this country for 15 years what should be done? Now we have to decide. Now we have to enter a real dialogue. The New Democracy has submitted its views, not now that it has been in the government, but since it was in the Opposition. We have proposed and institutionalise the innovation proposals, which are a process which calls on the private sector to take part in the proposals as well, which it must do to exploit such a privileged land. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that while I fully realise that there are voices down in Crete about negative environmental impacts, this work can no longer return. This has been done by following - I assure you of this - all the legal procedures provided for by both the law of the state and the law of cancellation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Villard, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I have referred to environmental issues. I don't have to repeat the same thing. We know that your environmental sensitivities are lower. We also know that you are usually in agreement with the Civic Opposition, so we understand that you are simply continuing the work launched by the previous government. I shall refer to another matter. According to an article, which I will present in the Minutes, concessionaire and contractor to the airport building in Kastelis, the Greek construction company TERNA with the Indian airport management company GMR has become a unique interested party. I'll submit it to the Minutes. The price has been reduced from the initially expected EUR 850 million to almost half, i.e. EUR 480 million, which has caused too many questions. I'll also testify. Reminds the difference between the initial price for the extension of the ‘Eleftherios Venizelos’ airport contract, where the price was finally doubled after the European Union DG Group audit to EUR 1.3 billion from EUR 600 million. At the time, Mr. Georgiadis had said that he was a carabinat case for the special court. Did New Democracy really launch it when he won the election? I'll submit it to the Minutes. Continuing, the total investment cost of the new airport is estimated at EUR 1.5 billion. The issue of costs should concern us, because a high cost justifies the reduction of the price, so that the project is profitable, let alone when no other company has participated in the tender. Comparatively, the cost of building the much larger "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport with a threefold movement was EUR 2.2 billion in 1996-2000, constructed. Recently, the extension of Belgrade airport, where a similar route of Kastelion would be added, with similar passenger facilities, will cost only EUR 262 million, with a contractor and a ‘TERNA’, the same company. On the basis of the above facts, the State will collect the following data. Firstly, a one-off sum of EUR 480 million, but paying about EUR 280 million for construction and expropriation, so it will be just EUR 200 million. Secondly, it will have an annual dividend equal to 46% of net revenue, when today it receives 100% of the revenue, estimated at EUR 80 million. I will also submit it to the Minutes. Thirdly, air charges will increase to EUR 20 per passenger from EUR 15 on average today, which could have a very significant impact on tourism in Crete. About the now "Eleftherios Venizelos" and the fourteen airports sold to the Germans, the price is very low, as is documented by our own comparison of technical and economic data, which I will also present in the Minutes and which I will ask you to see very carefully. However, since we do not have official information on the revenues of Heraklion airport, which please provide us with, on the basis of traffic, the price per passenger is only EUR 60 for Kastelli, when for the fourteen airports of "FRAPORT" it is also EUR 90 for "Eleftherios Venizelos" 180 euros. Obviously, the difference against the state is huge. Our questions here are as follows. What will be the final benefit for the State after updating the cost of expropriations and environmental study? Secondly, why was there such a big difference between the initially expected price and the final offer? Has something changed in the data, or has there been a mistake in the calculations, as usual? Third, is there a detailed calculation of the cost of manufacture of Castelli? If there is, we would ask you to present him to us. And the latter, is there a commitment to the jobs that will be created at the new airport, the type and the level of wages? If there's any, please give it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u185	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I particularly appreciate your mildness and the seriousness which it characterizes you in every question I have had the honour of answering. I will begin by answering your reproach for environmental conscience or politics, saying that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has one of the most ambitious agendas for environmental issues by almost all the other governments of the European Union. You know, I have the impression that you're confusing and connecting things that have nothing to do with it. You cannot compare the data of "Eleftherios Venizelos" with the airports of Kastelios. Maybe both are airports, but we're talking about completely different sizes. Also, where there is obviously an ideological disagreement - although I think you come from a space that has an ideological, though very small, continuity from our own - we believe in private initiative. Obviously, you do not believe him when you talk about selling to 'FRAPORT'. I invite you to go to Thessaloniki Airport, see what state it is today and what state it was, when it was public. Because today we are doing what the whole of Europe is doing. We can't function with data from the 1960s. I wish we could. I wish we had all that money in the Public Investment Programme, so that the Greek State and each State would make all the projects. But here, we need to attract private funds. In fact, you say why he was an interested person. Ask the previous Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, or his colleagues. I will reply to you - because there is a continuation in the state - that the competition for Kastelli had been cancelled eight times, because it asked each company for extensions and extensions, and quite rightly Mr Spirtzis - because we often have our controversy, but once again we have to say the good things the previous ones have done - he said: 'It is enough with this mockery, the work must unblock and we must sign the contract'. Of course, they did something bad after, showing their curiosity. While they signed the contract, it took a year to start the project. Do you know why? Because they did not get the clarence from the European Commission. They did not get the so-called pre-authorisation that the loan was contractual aid. What took them a year to do it, we took two months. At my first meeting with Mrs Verstagen, this matter was immediately cleared up and works started. So we do not see the positive effects of such a great public work, we do not see the fact that for the first time a colossus from India, a superpower after China and invests. Unless you tell me that you're against "COSCO" investment in Piraeus. Unless you tell me: we're against all the investments. I disagree, but I can hear it. However, your criticism reminds me of a left party and not a right party. As a right-wing party and a patriotic party, you should say yes to private investment, but to a State which has a supervisory role, with a state which oversees that there are equal conditions for competition. This criticism and this remark, I would be very happy to accept it. I would therefore ask you to table a question to give you all the documents you have requested. The estimates now available - and I close, Mr President - are that the jobs created will exceed seven thousand, the indirect and direct jobs. I also close by saying something else: Crete and Greece will be upgraded to a grid of air transport for the whole of the Eastern Mediterranean, and that, in particular, you must understand that better than us. With geopolitical developments in the Eastern Mediterranean, the fact that we will have a state-of-the-art airport in Crete also helps national interests. So don't look at the half-empty glass. Seeing all aspects. I'm at your disposal for whatever other evidence you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u187	The first question will be debated under number 486/10-2-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Sufficiently visible now the risk of not completing the Akti - Ambros and the loss of the European resources of the NRP". Mr. Baroness, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, my timely question is about Aktio - Ambros, which - please - should have been delivered in 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u189	This Regulation shall
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u190	It was me who pushed Mr. Kalogannis back to the Ministry to declare the contractor at the time. That was not possible for a number of reasons. In 2015, when SYRIZA came, he received a project of about 50% complete, but with an image of a rhyme, while tens of millions of them had fallen into this Danaida ape. In this context, then, the Minister, then the Ministry, has chosen to resort to another contractor. The result of this effort was that one of the contractors, Vonicha's bypassing and surrendering, but the rest of it was the problem of the appeal of one of the contractors, which was accepted. So the New Democracy Government and you are coming. With discretion - I would say - and with anguish we expected you to unravel some efforts to deplete the current legal procedures. I personally thought that's what you did. It is on 31 December that you will be able to extend the contracts on the initiative of the Ministry and on 20 January you will announce the annulment of the tender. Allow me to say, Minister, by following all developments closely, that this was a predetermined one. In other words, you were expecting for their formal reasons the exhaustion of the deadline I have said and resorted to this solution. I would like to ask you this: have you realised what tunnel the project has now entered? In a new chain of appeals, an incredible pilgrimage. Why am I saying I've been waiting for the legal proceedings to be exhausted? For by exhausting legal procedures, you would have shielded the project from further such adventures. But it didn't happen. Now I am telling you in addition - I will expect your protology to continue - that in the matter of the Philippines bypassing to connect the Preveza to the Ionian road, where there is a study and a EUR 35 million has been written, there are leaks that this may not be the case. If that is the case, then that is not the case, then Preveza - let me say - will receive a double blow on the part of Aktius - Ambrosia and from the side of Philippid. And that is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Baroness, I will begin with something I had committed myself to last July in the government's programme statements to see that we, unlike SYRIZA, are doing what we are doing in the run-up to the election. I can explain: At that time I stressed that the new government is called upon to review the Aktios - Ambrosia contest, so that we can give the best solution so that we can finally finish a major project and finish the major revolutionary words in this Chamber. Unfortunately, however, with your question today, I am very afraid that we are entering a process that does not help. I'll tell you why. You will allow me here, Mr President, and Mr Barremene, to make a brief retreat for those who are following us, because they are really - as you quite rightly said - a project that has gone through a thousand waves so that we can see what has been done. The project started salamished, with partition - such as what you did at Patras - Tower - not in 2009, as you write in your question. The contract was signed in 2010 on the PASOK Government. This project had a budget of EUR 142 million. This is where problems begin by breaking the works and partitioning, problems that we are now trying to avoid at Patras - Tower. The contractor is declared discounted in May 2013 in the two of the four contractors, which it had undertaken, in the first and fourth quarters. Now listen to the absurdity of the Greek state. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. The tragic thing is that the new contractor is again declared to be inferior. At the end of 2014, two extensions are given for completion of the project by the end of 2015. At the beginning of 2015, however, the works cease. You know, Mr. Baroness, why are the works stopped? 'Cause then you were living with your delusion. Then everything was stopped, the first half of the proud negotiation and we had to restart. Fifteen months later, at the end of 2016, SYRIZA was him. He provided 15 months of extension to the same contractor, i.e. until the end of 2017. I would remind you that project planning in 2015 included the delivery of the project in 2018 -- a total of about 40 km - and in second phase, a new tender, where the remaining parts of the eight and a half kilometres would be completed in 2020. Finally, the projects continued only for the first contractor, while for the remaining sections it was decided in 2017 at unit rates, Mr Varremene, and not flat-rate - the same mistake you made - to complete a new contract - 'bug' of 160 million. Your government made a broom - contraction 160 million more than the 2010 contractor, which was 148 million. Do you know how much the project has cost by partition, what you went to do in 2017? It's cost EUR 6.1 million per kilometre and it's still not over. It is perhaps the most expensive route, if not in Europe, but certainly in the history of the Greek state. In other words, the contract - 'broom' - the supplementary contract - is more precise than the original budget. What did we do? We, in 2018, find the Consortium "AKEKOP" and "TERNA" to have received the project and in 30 months were supposed to complete it by 2021. Judiciary's coming, as you quite rightly said, complications are coming. Mr. Bored, do you know why they came? Because the Competition Committee has legislated in favour of cartels. In 2016, your government passes an amendment that closes the urban section for Greek companies, but you do not close the administrative and criminal track, with the result that every time a company went to submit its papers to a competition, come another company and object to the Council of State. What you have not done for three years, in order to blackmail the major technical companies, we have solved it within the first quarter of the government and all the negotiating procedures have been cleared up. So what did we do? I guess you're the ones who do it and I'll tell you what we did. For almost four and a half years, as I have shown you, you have done nothing. Just tossed the can forward, giving an extension, as was the case in previous years. What do we do? We turn around and say that, first, because of the chronic judicial choices, we cancel the contest. He can't pull this thing off with legal proceedings. Secondly, we are preparing new issues with a specific timetable and a budget at a flat-rate price, without the stupidity of large discounts. Give it a price, take it and do it, get it over with, because we've already spent too much money. Thirdly, we are preparing the tender notice with EUR 150 million and we will have it ready by May 2020. We are therefore overcoming the bad texts of the past and we are moving forward with a view to the completion of the project. I think what is being understood by what I told you and apologise for overtime, is that we had the bridge of Arta and we are trying in this very difficult reality that I'm describing, to do what is humanly possible, to end with a story. This competition, unfortunately, had to be cancelled, started from the outset, to finish this work once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 10th Municipal School of Trikala (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Baroness, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u194	Be careful, Mr President, on the basis of what the Minister has said. Those terribly and appallingly precedented in 2015 in Aktio - Ambros depend on the state anonymously. Whatever happened after 2015, it was SYRIZA's fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u195	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u196	That's what you said. I say, Minister, we must be honest. I have said so, too. This is where we predetermin and order. Can I tell you something? You talked about the partition. SYRIZA didn't do it. Nevertheless, I will tell you that the European directive - to which you can refer - states that subdivision into sections is not only permitted, but is necessary to strengthen competition and small and medium-sized enterprises. Refer to it and read it. I say this, however, after all that has happened. And I say, Minister, it's perforated. And I could tell you the reasons here. But do you understand why I'm not saying why? Because I don't want to give any arguments about what he wanted. And it's certain he'll follow. We'll be here and we'll see. And it's clear where it's going to end up. The work now comes into the dark. They pulled what they pulled in the area, lost as many lives as we lost all these years because of the uncertainties or because of the fact that the project was not completed, died so many people and - beating wood - I don't know what will happen from now on. And can I tell you something, Minister, because I want to speak to you honestly? And who told you that the new contractor will be the one you think - I say - well-appropriated and possibly pleasurable? Who told you that? Who guarantees you that? And I say that, Minister, so we don't go to Patra - Tower. We'll take another chance there. And we have a lot to talk about. Because in the meantime - let me say - you have created and vendettas, which I personally avoided going into. It is not, in other words, that you are looking forward to someone pleasing or desirable or appropriate, to say it diligently. You challenge vendetta with some people you think should get out of the way. That will be judged, however, by the competent authorities. A state, Minister, has continually and has an institutional memory. No one comes and says, 'I'm pulling out, I'm stopping, I'm reflecting a project'. Not here. I am not saying this just for the Aktio - Ambracia, because we have other precedents. The state has a continuity and must also have an institutional memory, because it is certain what will follow. You didn't tell me anything about Philippid.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u197	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u198	No, you'll tell me now. You'll tell me before I finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u199	I have my dentistry. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u200	Yeah, but I won't be able to comment on it. 'Cause if it's cancellation, Minister, excuse me, say it not to me, tell the people, hear it, and the people of the region. If you can, I will give you the floor and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u201	I'll say it in public, Mr. Baroness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Baroness, you have experience. The Minister responded to his prototype and will answer his second-guess, because he closes. You know that. You've been here for years. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, of course I have experience. But with all due respect, it is a key part of my question, which has not been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u204	In Philippida, we'll agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u205	So it's the anticipated positive thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u206	Monsieur Baroness, some of us will agree. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u207	Please, Mr Baroness, continue because other colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u208	I have transferred to you the anguish of an entire region, the anguish of an entire population. It's not just Haitolo-Carnania that I'm elected to. It is also Lefkada, which is further away, that is the Preveza I mentioned to you, that is the tourism in the region, that is the development need of the region and that is the blood tax we have paid so far. And I think we don't have to pay any more. Here we will be and come back. I told you how dark the continuity of things is. And I was hoping you'd realize what dark tunnel the project is now entering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u209	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u210	First of all, let me begin by saying that next time I would ask you to be a little more read. The partitioning of projects, Mr Vartenne, is something that the European Commission is detesting and only in specific cases allows. And I'm explaining: You spoke about the continuity of the state. Are you serious? In my Ministry you had a ready work in Patras - Tower, with guaranteed funding and then the government decided to break it into eight pieces, not to defend the public interest...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u211	Before what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u212	I have not interrupted you, I have listened very carefully and with great respect. It was a single project and you broke it. Why did you break it? To favor a particular contractor you wanted to make him an editor and a canalarch. So I am returning them to you, not to you personally, to your party. We, Mr Baroness, are here to defend the public interest. And what are you talking about? We go in - it says - on dark roads. But, well, who are you kidding? I accept that there were responsibilities before 2015. You, from 2015 to 2019, who were a Member of this Parliament, who was also Vice-President of the Greek Parliament, why didn't you ask Mr Spirtzi why you didn't swing his finger when he gave him an extension after the other one, and why didn't you ask him why you didn't close the issue by legislation, as we did with the issue of the Competition Committee? Then you did not ask them, because then, obviously, it was the government that you represent. I understand, of course, because, unfortunately, this is the system we have, the cancellation system and the judicial procedures - and I will indeed agree with you, that we have a very high risk of entering a circle of actions. However, we have taken this into account. So we are here, and we are saying this: even if we were to give the latter the work, then the third will have recourse to the latter, because that is the procedure that is being carried out. So let's go to S.T.E. with a specific argument, analyzing the history of this whole very painful story, which troubles your fellow citizens and fellow citizens in surrounding areas for too many years and we say something very simple: "Lords, as far as this is concerned. We cancel this contest which was a travesty and we make a new architecture of a competition at a flat-rate price to finish, finally, and the rest of it." Therefore, it is good not to come here the MPs of counter-population or co-population and say that the project will get involved in judicial adventures. Because if I was a wicked person - who I am not, because I do not want to reproach you for your honesty - one could say that it is some who urge some to go to court. I'm not saying you do it. To God! In this Chamber, however, in some other phases, from other places, Members of Parliament came with paper from contractors and said, "Why did you not respond to this contractor?" I'm not here to answer contractors. I am here to answer the Greek people and you who are his representative. Now, with regard to the second part of your question about the work of connecting the Ionian Road to the Preveza Prefecture, as you said at the height of Philippida, I would like to say to you: We have started the process of concluding a programme contract with the Epirus Region and our assessment is that the whole project will be auctioned in the first half of 2021. So I want to say for sure that this piece of work is going on and there's no thought at this time to get into adventures with this piece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u213	Thank you. The next two questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Gerasimos Thomas. We continue with the fifth under No. 502/11-2-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need to introduce a minimum guaranteed amount of energy to the economically weaker". Mr. Arsenis has the floor to first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am, first of all, very sad about the things that have been done in this Chamber concerning our question indirectly, and that is why I shall put it. We're all talking about 2015. When Mr Varoufakis handed over exactly what happened in 2015, the transcripts, the President of the Parliament did not endure this truth and wanted to return it back. But that is not just the problem, there is an issue of moral order, because in his panic, the President of the Parliament has been sanitized three times by Mr Varoufakis, that he is going to the funeral of his best friend, and that is an insult to man. If I had the opportunity from the Statute, I would have applied for reproach on the President of Parliament. Unfortunately, I don't have it. Now, why is it about our question? Because these transcripts would say exactly how the average Greek citizen was found in this situation. Today, we have in Greece on the basis of studies of 29.2% of citizens - a study of 2017 - to say that they cannot meet their basic needs in terms of air conditioning, lighting, heating, and even cooking. The state of impoverishment of Greek households is gloomy. In western Athens, which I represent, it is also very intense for the Municipality of Ilios - to be honoured - a number of initiatives have been launched, covering both the current and the overdue accounts until 2018, in seventy-seven families. However, there is a need for a regularisation of this procedure for all municipalities and there is interest in other municipalities. We are, in fact, talking about a 'electric accumulate' because there have been many households in this situation. I therefore ask you, with the timely question I have tabled, precisely to create the legal framework to allow the municipalities to do this. We need a meter to be able to get in. I submit to the minutes the city's unanimous decision on this issue, which is 2012 and came back in 2019, requesting, if possible with the assistance of PPC, that the meters enter or be able to give a card with certain power units, so that the households can use them in at least a rut. If this cost is not covered by PPC's social corporate responsibility, then the municipality can intervene and cover these amounts. So we have a technician, the meter, and an essential one, the coverage of this 'electric symmetry', which you will really agree with me - I am sure - that it is necessary to start today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Arsenis, who, with this question, gives me the opportunity to address the extremely important issue of energy poverty, which concerns not only the directly affected, but also the whole of our society. Energy poverty is a phenomenon that has deteriorated in recent years, as you said in your question, during the economic crisis, and has emerged as a problem in the national energy and climate plan, in the ESRB, which uses the same elements that you said since 2017 and shows that 23% of the total population appeared unable to heat satisfactorily in its residence. This is doubled when we talk to the most economically vulnerable citizens. We are like Greece, after the crisis, in the last positions of the European Union, only behind Bulgaria and Lithuania. For this reason, the national energy and climate strategy adopted by the government sets out the objective of reducing these rates by 75% by the year 2016 during the implementation of the ESRB. These objectives are ambitious, but they are effective, and must be implemented with permanent measures, with permanent and structural control of the phenomenon and not only with opportune and short-term measures, which they do not render. He needs a structural solution. With this in mind we have entrusted the CAPE, working with the Ministry, and we have promised that a plan of action to eliminate energy poverty will be completed in the middle of 2020, which, once it has been completed, will include the definition of households with energy poverty, the specific process of monitoring and evaluating the evolution of the phenomenon and the solutions needed, others at national and other regional levels. Policy measures will be specified with favourable tariffs, energy audits, participation in information and education actions and a specific monitoring and measurement procedure will be developed for the impact of each measure separately. At this stage your question and proposals come at a very good time, because we are open and want to hear and look at the proposals, such as the municipality of Ilio. We have discussed the case of the energy siege with the DADP. As you know, this government has prepared the acceleration of the introduction of smart cash, which is a way and a prerequisite to becoming the energy complexes. We have discussed with the DEDENH, which is considering the technical implementation of this measure and how it will be able to enter the long-term plan for energy poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u217	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I'm very glad you're moving in this direction. I wonder, once this unanimous interest is present from the Municipality of Ilios, whether you could consider piloting this, starting from the Municipality of Ilios, as well as having proceeded with payment of people's bills. These seventy - seven families had been powerless for a long time because of accumulated debts to PPC. There is also an organised proposal on their part. So I think it is worth piloting the implementation of these measures, starting with the Municipality of Ilio, perhaps two more - three municipalities all over Greece, but within them it is also the Municipality of Ilio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u219	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind you that the criteria for accession to the beneficiaries of energy poverty, as well as the criteria for joining the social invoice, for example, which changed in 2018, during the previous government, need a good study, namely the criteria for accession to the COT. In the NGO we had eight hundred thousand households in 2009, and after reviewing the criteria from the previous government, they became more restrictive and were five hundred thousand beneficiaries of the social invoice. This is an example that shows that before we move on to massive measures, we must be sure of the definition. With this in mind, I recommended today to the DEDDIE to consider the case of Ilio as a pilot project and we will see if they meet the criteria for defining energy poverty, these seventy-seven families and how this can be solved technically when the "smart meters" are introduced. Apart from that, I would like to say that the government is looking at other measures which help to this same problem. We are already continuing to grant the heating allowance, and we are also looking at the continuation of the reconnection programme for vulnerable household consumers. We have committed close to EUR 3 million from the national budget, which will be credited to the special account held by the TEN. We are examining with this money the extension of the measure to include the consumers who have been cut off by the summer of 2019. As a temporary measure, until the action plan is prepared by the CFP, we will also look at using these resources where we need and where we can, so that we can fill the gap and deal with the issue permanently and structurally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u221	Before we move on to the last time question for today, I would like to announce that the sixth question under number 503/11-2-2020 in the second cycle of SYRIZA, Mr. Catherine Notopoulou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject of "Progress of the Metro of Thessaloniki", will not be discussed as a result of Mrs. So we move to the 1988/18-11-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Kastoria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Olympia Tyloridou to the Minister of the Environment and Energy, on the subject of the "Natural Gas Network in Kastoria, Maniacs, Argos Oriental and Grevenas". Here, my colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, good evening. This question was submitted to you on 18 November 2019 and for all three months remains unanswered. That is why it is becoming timely, because it is a very important issue for our region. So that is what you are not answering, but there is also a philology in the region by New Democracy officials and the new regional authority, an attempt is being made to zero all the previous effort that has come to an end so that it can begin. So there is a deception that nothing had been done by the previous government. Just yesterday - and I do not know whether this is related to the fact that the question was made timely - a draft of the ETS for 2020 was presented by 2024. Therefore, the plan includes the fact that this project will be initiated, in a manner which ensures that the TEN had already completed plan in 2018 and authorisation from RAE since 2018. Indeed, while there was this provision, today we see that what is presented as up-to-date is a plan that brings us back and on the start of the project - because it was going to start from 2020 and go to 2021 - but also on the progress of work. I would like to ask, then, all this time in advance, was an attempt to depreciate and zealize what had been done by the previous government? Has the change been made in advance with the new design of the TEN? Is there anything else undercover and I mean the effort to give this work to private individuals, as the current district minister, who was also a New Democracy MEP, and even though he tried to deny it, even in his disapproval he confirmed it? Minister, we want you to make this clear: this work will be done by the public. Is the TEN's institutional competence still unchanged? Is the presence of the new design a pretext for privatising the project? Is there, then, planning to be implemented, as we anticipated, for the service of the citizens of Kastoria, Argos Orestor, Manikas and Grevenes? Because the delay for a year, as shown in the current design, for us means an extra winter without the possibility of cheap access for heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u223	Here, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to put an order and explain exactly what is going on. First of all, there are inaccuracies in what they were supposed to have prepared by the previous government. Never did the previous Regional Authority of Western Macedonia draw up an invitation to join the project in the RDP of Western Macedonia. He was part of the Public Investment Programme without implementation planning. So it was an announcement. The TENA, which was supposed to have made business plans and all preparations, was subordinated to SYRIZA and took two thirds of its staff a month and a half before the 2019 elections. So we start with the fact that nothing was ready. The stimuli of the previous administration of the TEN, as well as of the previous Regional Authority of Western Macedonia - no longer exist - has resulted in us starting to work systematically from now on with the new administration of the TEN and the new regional authority in order to move forward with these projects. The projects will go ahead. The extension of the gas distribution network to Greece is an integral part of the national energy and climate strategy, which is already being implemented. Now, as far as the specific work of the Region of Western Macedonia is concerned, this has been included in the TEN programme, which was submitted to the RAE for approximation last week and has come to public consultation for two reasons: firstly, to see what was actually prepared and not discussed by the authorities, so that it can be implemented secondly, to add, as I will say below, very important projects for the region of Western Macedonia and the rest of Greece. I am presenting the TEN programme for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Gerasimis Thomas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The TEN development programme provides for the development of distribution networks in the municipalities of Kastoria, including Manikas, Argos of Oresti and Grevenes. However, for these projects, we also need to know that their gas supply can be implemented through the exit of the TAP pipeline in the Porria Kastoria area and the construction of the exit station will be carried out by the TESC which will take over the operation of the station. When the previous government had made the announcements, it was not even predicted that there would be an exit to the MSF so that there would be gas to supply them. Now that's what's under way. The DESA will open the exit station. With this in mind, this necessary condition will have been met. The projects will start in 2021, close and perfect in 2023. The houses that will be connected to this project have been increased in relation to the TEN’s previous business plan. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] There are two thousand two hundred forty-four household customers provided for in the programme of implementation, five hundred sixty merchants, four industrial final customers for whom gas consumption is foreseen. This practically means that the new development programme submitted to the RAE by the new administration of the TEN is significantly increased in relation to the previous one as regards the number of new connections. The government, however, has supported the TEN to take a step further. With our actions and the intensive effort that has been made in recent months - and that is precisely why the TEN-T investment programme and development programme have been updated - the gas distribution networks are being expanded to the energy municipalities of Kozani, Jordan, Florina and Amyntai, precisely to meet the needs of regions that are energy-intensive from the closure of lignite stations. As regards these energy municipalities, the TEN had never been asked to study the projects technologically. But in recent months with the new administration, the new government, it has taken an initiative to fund, implement the studies so that they can reach the same level of maturity as those for non-energy municipalities. As a Minister - and I personally - we have committed ourselves in the context of a fair transition to have absolutely no gap with regard to the heating of citizens after the closure of lignite plants, and that is why we have anticipated in western Macedonia, not only in the non-energy, but also in the energy municipalities, that there should be provision. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u225	Here, Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I don't know what the sources of your information are. But on the basis of the information I have, I have to tell you that you have a misinformation. You said there had been no planning for gas exits. I shall therefore submit to the Minutes on 20 July 2016, with the signature of Mr Skourletis, in which this provision is made. You said that there was no provision for Poria in the energy design of the CNG. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes the planning of the IPCC, which has the prediction of the station in Poria. In fact, it concerns not only the supply of gas to the region of Kastoria, but also the form of CNG and the Grevenes region from this station. You said that there was no possibility of the amount being recorded. Let me tell you, then, that there are all the figures on the amount of EUR 12.6 million entered in the Public Investment Programme here. I should like to give you the RAE's permission to launch this programme and all these data that I will submit in the Minutes. In fact - and I tell you in all the good sense - I think we should be honest about the world, but also in the debate between us. You mentioned a fact that has arisen with the energy municipalities, but for which there is also the prediction from our government to exit to Perdika, there was no rest of the programming for the development of the networks, because this was the result of the Prime Minister's ultimatum at the UN conference on climate change, which suddenly said that all lignite plants are closed and that is where there will be a problem with televitation in 2028. Let me tell you, however, that our design for the area in which I am referring is at the end of the Marathon and not at the beginning of it, as is the region of Perdika and the energy municipalities in which there will be a problem from the closure of lignite plants. I sincerely want to tell you that with all the parasiology that has been done in our region lately, I have no confidence in the government and we will monitor the work. Even yesterday's announcement of the new updated plan - for which you are frankly not convinced of me on the grounds - we have no confidence that it will go ahead. I note that with the new plan, we are already going back a year and I would like to see you - because you have probably avoided it in your prototype - you have to tell us whether there is a government's intention to take up this work privately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u227	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I think what I said is helping what you said. Things had started, and it was halfway through. I said that provision had been made to finance the project by the Public Investment Programme, that is, the project had been included in the Public Investment Programme. However, neither the implementation nor the preparation of a tender had been made. So, it was like the money had joined...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u229	It was planned, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u230	We'll see, you'll see. I, too, have looked at them, because of course we have no reason to delay a project that we have gone ahead with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u231	I'm sure you don't have a say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u232	The projects were simply not ready, and that is why we could not go along with them in financial terms. You mentioned who is responsible for the projects in western Macedonia. It is clear that the task of developing distribution networks in the region of Western Macedonia and in particular in the municipalities mentioned by the TEN. The Government’s position was reflected in the recent Law of the RIS, where specific reference is made to the functioning of the TEN, which will continue to implement its investment plan for the companies making up the newly created infrastructure. In other words, it will continue after the expected privatisation to be the TENs which have competence in these areas. The procedures followed are transparent and the result will benefit the citizens of western Macedonia. There is provision for distribution networks to be made by private individuals where the TEN does not do the works. In this case, however, the TENA has confirmed that it will do the works, that it will extend its activities to the energy municipalities as well. So, as far as the issue of who will do the works in these cities is concerned, the TENA will only do it there, in the regions or municipalities where TENA cannot go ahead - there are other regions or municipalities that the TENA has neither committed nor is incapable of going on a reasonable path - can be done by individuals and that is good. When something can't be done by one body, it can be done by another. As to the percentage of financing, the TENs will implement the resources committed by the previous government from the operational programme of the Region of Western Macedonia. These resources will be left. I've told the House several times. These resources will be used, the European Investment Bank's loan will be used and new projects will also be ensured in the energy municipalities themselves by the PPC and the TENs and new investment loans provided by the TENs from the domestic banking system will be provided. I would also like to say at this point that, in order not to announce things that are not done, the TENs have cooperated with the Ministry of Development to examine every study carried out and every notice that has been made so that all the projects that will be carried out in this area can and can be met by 31/12-2021. Because, as you know, according to the European Structural Funds Regulation, projects, these costs will not be eligible after 31/12-2021. Therefore, the new administration of the TENs together with our Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Development examined these projects - one by one - to be licensed ready to proceed with this process. Finally, I would like to say that even in the projects in which the procedures or projects of the DCI may be started shortly later, the TENA is committed to launching its own processes and networks as quickly as possible, even urging, in case the TEN projects start later in 2021 or 2022, so that when there is a supply of gas by means of DCIs, these projects can provide energy to homes and households. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-14-S1-commons.u234	With the agreement of the House at 17.20 p.m., the sitting on Monday, 17 February 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work, is closed: a topical and urgent debate.
