ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with the Parliament's 21-5-2020 authorisation, the PRM minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday 21 May 2020 with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Incorporation into the Greek legislation of the Directives (EU) 2016/800, 2017/1371, 2017/541, 2016/19, 2014/57/EU, ratification of the Memorandum of Administrative Cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus, amendments to the Law No.3663/2008 (A 99) to implement Regulation (EU) 2018/1727 and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 25 May 2020. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Achaia of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingpoulou to the Minister of the Interior, on "The living conditions of the Roma West Achaias - Need for immediate intervention". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 692-12-2020 by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: 'About the suspension of all cultural activities'. 3. The question by No. 708/18-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Simulation of all contractors in school cleanliness and recruitment of new permanent cleaning staff for adequate coverage of school units". 4. The 694-12-2020 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The recruitment of permanent cleaners in schools". 5. The Question No 701/18-5-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To abolish the provisions of Article 255 of Law 48520 on the priesthood before irreparable damage to the Greek Nature". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 677-15-2020 by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Short constructions within the moat of the Old Fortress Corfu". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 714/18-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The developments in the "Petrelaea Kavalas" and the safeguarding of all jobs, the rights of workers and their contracts of employment". 3. The Question by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultana Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Serious concerns in the wider region of Kavala from the problems of operation of ENERGEAN" and the consequences that they may have on workers and indirectly dependent undertakings". 4. The question under number 715/18-5-2020 of the Radical Left Coalition, Christofordakis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Ministry of disciplinary action against officials from the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture (Supervisory of the Ministry of Culture) following the disclosure of criminal documents in the Ministry of Culture and Sports. Total amount allocated to the Solidarity Fund and the clearer from 7 July to date’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 5220/243/27-2020 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Security of access for all to basic social goods during the pandemic period”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 5228/244-27-2020 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'An inadequacy of incentives and counter-incentives for tying at source and recycling'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: Today, Friday, 22 May 2020, the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are the following: The third time question by number 695/15-2020 on the second question by the Vice-President of Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Announcement by Ambassadors to Israel on the annexation of Palestinian territories', will be answered by Mr Nikolaos Dendias. The second time question by number 705-18-5-2020 from the first time of the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "On papers no.4670/2020 three months after his vote", will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Brutsis. The question under number 711/18-5-2020 of a second time question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Do not let any employee of the transformer plant in Oinofyta, of the company "Schneider Electric", will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr.Ioannis Vroutzis. The question raised by Mr Elisabeth Skoufa, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Creating a new systematic institutional framework for the protection of work during the period of reduction of economic activity, due to measures to prevent transmission and combat the coronary (COVID-19)’. In accordance with Rule 30, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Ioannis Vroutzis will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The question under number 702-18-5-20 of the fifth time-limited question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To withdraw the decision to extract the antiquities of the Venizelos station and to continue construction of the metro of Thessaloniki, will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The first time question under number 713/18-5-2020 of the First cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Removing the complaint to the European Commission for the arrogant state aid of the Private Urban Transport Organisation of Thessaloniki (OSTH)", will be answered by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The Question No 691/11-5-2020 on the fourth topical question from the H' Vice-Chairman of Parliament and MP B3 of the Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Measures to relieve and support legal and other scientific disciplines", will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Veyropoulos. The first time question by number 707-18-5-2020 of the President of Heraklion's Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Extensive regulation of debts to the tax administration, irrespective of the applicable and inclusive, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. The third time question by No. 709/18-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The necessary measures for the schools of the General School and the Kissamos Professional High School", will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. The first time question under number 716/18-5-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, was asked by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The major consequences of special education and education from the epidemic. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Sophia Zacharakis will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs. So we start the topical questions. I'm just telling you that we should all be pretty strict in time due to various needs, especially to the latest questions. We begin with our third question under number 695/15-2020 in the second half of the H' Vice-President of the Parliament and Members of Parliament B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Announcement of Ambassadors to Israel on the annexation of Palestinian territories'. Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, thank you for being here today because I know the pressure you actually have. On 30 April the Ambassadors of eleven countries of the European Union approached the Israeli Foreign Minister. This approach warned of the serious consequences of the annexation of Palestinian territories, which is one of the points of the programming agreement of the new government coalition of Israel. They also asked the Israeli government to suspend planning of new structures in East Jerusalem. The ambassadors stressed that the annexation of any part of the South-Western Bank constitutes a clear violation of the rules of international law and warned that such unilateral steps would harm the efforts to renew the peace process and have serious consequences for regional stability and for Israel's attitude on the international stage. The countries taking part in the experiment are the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Denmark and Finland. We were really surprised by Greece's absence from this. The non-participation of our country in an energy elementary protection of international law is completely unjustified. Apart from that, however, abstention is also really against our national interests, because we must not forget that defending international law is our powerful weapon against all kinds of attacks on our national sovereignty. I would therefore remind you that Israel is an illegal occupation force, that its presence in the occupied Palestinian territories directly violates international law and the annexation of any Palestinian territory which has been occupied since 1967 is a war crime against the Palestinian people. That is why I ask you: Why did our country not participate in the diplomatic démarche of the countries of the European Union to Israel? Does our country have another place in terms of the validity and protection of international law than the one that formulates the experiment? What is the Greek Government's attitude to Israel's policy on the occupied Palestinian territories and the protection of the rights of the Palestinian people? And although what has changed and are we distanced from defending the principles of international law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I am grateful for the question because it gives me the opportunity to clarify something that is a common place in Greek foreign policy for many years, that it has been strictly committed to the implementation of international law and the decisions of the United Nations, and that concerns not only a general declaration on all issues of Greek foreign policy or global issues in general, but also on the specific issue that you have raised concerning Israel and the Palestinian question. We have to clarify this: this did not take place without Greece taking part. What needs to be clarified is that this is a démarche which was held by teleconferencing to the Deputy Director-General for European Affairs of the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Anna Azari, and which dealt with two issues: the possible annexation of Palestinian territories and the reconstruction of East Jerusalem in a district called Givat Hamatos, if I say so. This initiative of 30 April, which was taken by the representative of the European Union, expressed the positions of the European Union, which are positions of Greece and which have been expressed on several occasions by the Union and which have been expressed by the High Representative of the European Union, Mr Josep Borrell. Not all countries of the European Union participated in the 'television' experiment. You will allow me to read to you which countries have naturally attended: the United Kingdom - which is not actually a member of the European Union - France, Ireland, the Netherlands, France, Spain, Sweden, Belgium, Denmark and Finland. These were the ones present. There are a long series of countries that have been absent. I would stress - if you would like - the absence of two countries which have repeatedly criticised Israel, to see that the non-natural presence does not mean a change of political position, Germany and, above all, Luxembourg, which the Luxembourg Foreign Minister, Mr Jan Ashelborn, is one of the most resounding critics of various movements of the previous Israeli Government. In this sense, then, you will allow me to tell you that this case in no way expresses a change of policy, in no way expresses a change in attitude of the country which is always committed to international law and the decisions of the United Nations. I would, however, have to pay back the Caesar of Caesar and the things of God and say to you that I should thank you for the way Mer25 and you personally formulate the criticism on the part of your party, which is never possessed either by pettyness or by irresponsibility. Both of these when they exist are very damaging to our national interest. That is why I have to thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. As regards the latter, Minister, we will never do it and you know it, we are trying to make a constructive policy. Because you spoke of a strictly committed position of the Government, I will remind you that on 3 December 2019, in the resolution of the UN General Assembly at the Palestinian Rights Department of the Secretariat, our country voted against us for the first time and it was your government that did so. Greece has always voted in favour until 1993. He was then abstained from the government of Simitis and the government of SYRIZA. Even your party had never voted against. The Greek vote was positive in 1979 on Prime Minister Konstantinos Karamanlis, on Konstantinos Mitsotakis, in 2008 we did not vote against Kostas Karamanlis and with Minister of Foreign Affairs Ms Bakoyannis. Also, over the years, I do not remember hearing, quite rightly as you said - a New Democracy official, nor you, of course, nor the Prime Minister, expressing disagreement and arguing in favour of the vote. But what I'm asking you to do is to make it clear that your government assesses the previous time-consuming position as incorrect in this context. But I will return to the démarche. European Union spokesman, Mr Borrell, said that the European Union reiterated that any annexation would constitute a violation of international law. The French envoy said so to the UN, Mr Ripper, that if Israel takes such steps, these will not pass without question and will not be overlooked in our relations with Israel. You agree with these European positions, as you said before. Since we are members of the European Union, why should we not participate in this process and appear to be present? I would like to say that you have to say this here to the Greek Parliament in order to be clear. Let me remind you, of course, that we also have a political openness, but also a constitutional openness, I would say, Minister, that the Plenary Assembly of the Greek Parliament has taken a decision since 22 December 2015 which, with full and substantial justification, leads to the need for the recognition of the State of Palestine and calls on the Government to promote all the necessary procedures. I think that the inconsistent practice of the Greek governments since then has been exposing us internationally. You will allow me here to tell you that respect for international law is not a good card. The alliances that are being formed are fluid, especially in today's circumstances. We've seen alliances overthrow and come back. And the only thing that has been taught us in the aftermath of history is the dead, precarious and dangerous position that "the enemy of my enemy is my friend." Mr President, I shall end with one more point. Minister, it is particularly worrying that the International Alliance for the Memorandum of Holocaust is developing. The criminalisation of all criticisms against the State of Israel over the period. In other words, the fall of all democratic citizens anywhere on Earth is being mobilised, there is no criticism and condemnation of the political terrorism of the State of Israel, the policy of oppression, ethnic cleansing, disarmament, mass arrests and imprisonment, most of the times unjustified, and of young children, and the imposition of apartheid against the Palestinians. Because, indeed, our country's membership of the International Alliance for the Holocaust Memorial is expected in 2021, I sincerely hope that the Government's apparent turn in the Palestinians does not extend to similar thoughts and designs, Minister. I would like to have an answer on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u9	Madam President, in my dentistry, let me say the following. As regards the substance and the current situation, I have had the opportunity for a few days - and you know it - to speak with Mr Erecat, the Secretary-General, and to have a real debate on the various aspects of the Palestinian question and to assure him that our country has been committed to the principles of international law and the decisions of the United Nations. It is precisely the same thing that we have been through several times and I shall speak to my new colleague, the new Israeli Foreign Minister, Gabi Askinaz, in the next few days that we are scheduled to have a telephone call. But if we look at relations between Greece - Palestine and Greece - Israel, you will allow me to tell you that if the country in the past had been treated, not unfairly, but, in any case, with a bias at the expense of someone, it was at the expense of the State of Israel. Because Greece has recognized the State of Israel only thirty years ago. In time, the country supported the Palestinian effort, not as a favour to the Palestinian people, but as a sense of law and of commitment to international law. That's the reality. We've always helped, we've always supported. I must tell you with a feeling of bitterness that we have not seen a statement from the Palestinian Authority in the last case of Turkey's illegal and international law agreement with Libya, we have not seen a statement from the Palestinian Authority on human rights issues in Turkey. So I fully agree with what you said. There is no foreign policy on international law. But that applies to everyone, not only to Greece. As far as Greece is concerned, however, only on behalf of the government of which I have the right to speak, I would like to assure you again that we will remain fully committed to the principles of international law, fully in the decisions of the United Nations, which, of course, clearly include the solution of the two states. We fully understand the need to protect human rights, especially in this case, the rights of the Palestinian people. Greece does not change the location of a card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u10	We will proceed to the first with number 713/18-5-2020, a timely question for the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis, in which we have been hoping for a few hours. Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday, Minister, and thank you for your presence. I must add that you are one of the new ministers of the government that honors the parliamentary control procedure with its own personal presence. Please do not consider what I am about to say politically to you, but it is directly linked - and I will explain it to you - with this. Today, fifty-seven years have been completed since the murder in Thessaloniki of Gregory Labraki. Then the question has been raised 'who governs this place?' The answer that history gave was the paratrooper and a group of people around power. I will only keep the para-state and all its additives "in spite of" because the question I have submitted to you concerns a central economic oligarchy, the founding members and shareholders of OSH, who forced the previous management of the organisation in June 2019 to seek to the European Union the desperately needed investigation into the allocation of EUR 120 million from state resources to OSH. To understand what the citizens who are following us are and how the OSTH structure is composed, the OSTH was created in 1957 by carmen who took over Thessaloniki's transport project. Then, a product of time, it turned out to be an economic group, an economic oligarchy, which acquired a unique privilege. To understand what we are talking about, these were privileges to the limits of the law, which the government or the political system always came and legitimised by conventions and laws. From 1957 to 2001 in OSTH there was the following global originality, the public covering all the financial data of the organisation and within it ensuring the shareholders' profits. In other words, even if the agency was injurious, the State was obliged to pay the planned profit, the statutory profit, through a series of legislation, for shareholders. Such a sure opportunity, such a sure job, Minister, I confess, both in Greece and in Europe, perhaps in the world, does not exist. In other words, a private company in fact can only finance it by the Greek State. I'm closing up with this and I'm going to go back to my dentistry. This complaint submitted by Mr Stelios Papapas' previous administration is unknown how - and I hope that as a young man you do not want to link your name to the protection or covert investigation of the disposal of the Greek people's money - was withdrawn from the European Commission by letter of the new administration on 31-12-2019. I'm asking. How can you allow the withdrawal of a complaint to the European Union for 120 million unknownly granted and made available?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the past, several members of the government have given SYRIZA MPs "a tip" to be more careful about their questions. And I say this with all honesty, because you are really exposing the facts of the SYRIZA government. I'm explaining. To say this quite simply, the question you're putting forward exposes the Pappa administration and I really didn't expect it to be expected by a SYRIZA Member. And, indeed, thank you for the opportunity you are giving me, because you and the Greek Parliament and all the Greek people and basically the afflicted Thessalonians, the maladministration and indifference - if I may be allowed - on the part of the administration of OSH, when you did this incredible thing, to state the company. So let's go to this company, Papa's administration submits to the Commission a complaint on June 12, 2019, as you said in your question, namely during the election period, after the defeat of SYRIZA in the European elections. He tried, on the one hand, to hit former OSH shareholders and, on the other, to commit the next government and the next administration. The tragic story of this story, my dear fellow Member, is that the Pope administration has not delivered any papers at all with this complaint. The new administration has not identified any relevant documents, nor in general, nor any other document, except one I will tell you later, so that it can be sought from third countries. This will allow me to say that it raises a series of questions about the real intentions of Mr. Poppa's past administration. In the search for documents, a very interesting confidential document of the Ministry of Finance was identified, dated 23 May 2019, i.e. on the Government of SYRIZA and Minister of Mr. Tsakalotou. The document is confidential and, if you wish, I will present it to the House for your own information and it is completely revealing. So you know what the Ministry of Finance says about Mr. Tsakalotou's office to Mr. Pappa about this terrible complaint? Firstly, although - and I stress this - state aid exists and given that the original recipient of it is OSH, then the EUR 127 million should be repaid by the state-owned OSH and not by the shareholders. Secondly, the OSTH - the Ministry of Finance says this to Mr Tsakalotou, I am not saying it - is not considered an undertaking and cannot therefore be granted State aid. Thirdly, given that a decade has elapsed, Article 17 of Regulation 2015/1589, which in fact stipulates that the powers of the Committee to recover the aid are subject to a 10-year limitation period. This information has been provided by the Commission, and it has been contacted, Mr President, by the new administration of the OSH to put the case in the file. Do you understand, then, how you are being exposed to the questions you are asking - not personally, I am not saying it for you - and how do you expose the Pappa administration? Because at this stage, what you have managed to do is to prove once again how you have operated in the OSH for these years, and that is why you left two hundred twelve buses on the road when the new administration took over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u15	Minister, with great respect I would say to you that you are more careful when addressing designations. Closed with the availability of the buses. Just yesterday you caught a sad record of a hundred eighty buses, for the first time, coming down to Thessaloniki. But I'm actually staying. Have you read the document you read to me well?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u16	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u17	Yesterday, for the first time in history, a hundred and eighty two buses were released in Thessaloniki. If I lie, ask the Thessalonians. I have more frequent contact than you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u18	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u19	You're welcome, Minister. You will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u20	I would like you to be more careful in trying to mislead both this House and public opinion. Have you read this document from the Ministry of Finance, which you gave a fragmentary presentation by swinging it? Because he says other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u21	How do you have it, since it's confidential?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u22	Leave it to me. This document was also submitted to OSH, in OSH knowledge, and of course it is not the only one. You may forget, Minister, that in addition to the exhibitions of sworn accountants, there is the opinion of Mr Panagiotis Glavinis, Professor at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Everyone concludes - and I read it to you - that what arises from all the opinions and approaches is that OSTH has always had a privileged relationship with government power, so that it is the only body with over-performance of shareholders as well as with satellite companies, the 'ERAKLI'. Because you've obviously forgotten all this. You pay it all to Papa, but you have forgotten that from 1996, Minister, until 2016, the over-performance of the OSH shareholders reached 324 million. What does that mean? They are the ones that joined as losses in the OSH balance sheets and the public sector came to cover this money. You're right, they've been filed in the decades. That is why the complaint has been concerned since 2010, Minister. By 2010 they were deleted. But take care of the amounts. I want to remind you of over-performances at the core of the crisis? Find me a company that also has a satellite company from which OSTH is provided even top-stage materials. Find me a company that has set up a cooperative, "HRAKLE", which you do not control. And listen to the paradox. OSTH rents from the cooperative of its shareholders - "Yiannis buys, Yiannis drinks" - the two trains, the main building in which he houses and pays rents in the shareholder cooperative. That's what I don't know about what economic philosophy it belongs to. You need to investigate it. I would also remind you, in 2013, that 97% over-paid. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u23	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u24	Find me a company that its shareholders had an over-recruitment of 97%. In the same confidential document you have presented, there is a response from the European Commission, which, Minister, leaves open the possibility of investigating these 120 million. And, yes, they must be recovered from the successor shapes. But I cannot forget, Minister, that all the governments since 2000, which entered the agreement to dissolve OSH in 2009, have done their utmost. Let me remind you in 2001 that the government's rapporteur's report states that yes, all of these provisions set out a provocative support framework to the OSH. In 2018 it became the grosso bay, where you connect the OSTH function with the completion of the metro. There we can understand the delays, and why the metro has become Arta's yacht and why the metro had to deal with the war by the shareholders of mass transport. Finally, you referred to the Pappa administration as a memorial to mismanagement. I would like to remind you and ask you not to have the luck of your colleague, Mr Karaoglu, who, repeating exactly what you said, was in court on 14 July 2019 to apologise and to express regrets about the very same arguments you have made. And the last one. If you, Minister, do not see in this relationship between the OSTH political and non-transparent relations, then explain to me - and I can present it all for the Minutes - how an organization is done to issue, Mr President, this communication: "Dear colleagues, the board of directors of our associations considered it appropriate to invite all the shareholders of OSTH on September 6, 2007...", you have signed the contract linking OSTH with the execution and completion of the metro, "... in order to identify them as to which of the candidates of our region have been supported and helped to resolve the issues of the organisation".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u25	In 2007?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u26	Yes, in 2007, Minister Michael Liappi. It is the law with which it connects the OSTH with the completion of the subway. What does that say? Come and give you a line of who you vote for. And he proceeds to names. Because one of your colleagues today, Mr Stamatis, thanks very much because the OSH publicly supported his candidacy. Isn't that a opacity, a complication and a really vulgar political game of economic oligarchy? Mercy, Minister. And answer us why he retired for 120 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u27	For reasons of equality, Minister, you have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u28	I'll be brief. I understand the awkwardness of the honourable Member, because he did not respond to what I said to him. You went to 2007, you took us to the Lampraki murder. In fact, I am impressed by your arguments. Soon you will take us to 1821, which is also timely. I come back with arguments. Let us go back to the right speech. And we say the Thessaloniki passenger must know the following: Firstly, Mr Papapas and the administration then remembered this complaint, did it in the Commission during the election campaign. Actually, he's denounced OSH himself. Do you understand what Mr. Pappas did? He went and denounced himself, because even if he got state aid - which did not come out of state aid - the state-owned OSH would pay the 127 million. And because you brought me an opinion from a lawyer, I really am sorry to say it - but also a first-year law student knows that these opinions are opinions that are subjective. That's why there's the liquidation process, so we're going to court-- right? - and that's why we'll finally find out who owes what. Thirdly, Mr Papapas and your administration have complained about the risk of the 125 million return. As I told you in my protology, however, the decade is over and therefore the deletion is here. Fourthly, what I told you is a fact. He disappeared all the documents, which were there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u29	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u30	Okay, you're saying it's a lie. I'll testify to you all the documents. You know what? Lie is your privilege. I'll remind you of Thessaloniki's program. Lie is a privilege of the so-called radical Left, because you are lying - unfortunately for you - when you say that there are hundreds of eighty buses. There are now three hundred fifty buses available. You had to take a new bus to Athens and Thessaloniki for five and a half years. You didn't do anything. You did a gonatogram contest, set up and sewn for specific interests, and that's why it was canceled by the Independent Judicial Appeals Authority. You, the left radical - because, thank God, it's not all the Left, and it doesn't invoke cases in 1960 - you went to Athens from 1.20 to 1.40 and yesterday we announced that we're going back to 1.20. This is SYRIZA's so-called radical left, which wants to help the passenger audience. I come now and the questions you have asked. Listen to what you said, to see how you're being exposed. In fact, it's my pleasure within two and a half minutes to destabilize the terrible solution of statism. Mr President, did the honourable Member tell us that OSTH rents the trains from "HRAKLE" - right? - where are the old shareholders of the OSTH. For two and a half years, what did the Pappa administration do about it? For two and a half years you have continued to rent the trains of the old shareholders of the OSH. And you're coming now and you're swinging our fingers! For two and a half years you have said that you will be winding up in the company and you have done absolutely nothing, so that we must prolong the operation of the OSH to end the so-called liquidation. You said - I have noted them - that from 1996 to 2016 OSH received 324 million subsidies. Let me remind you that throughout Europe - and this is one of the requests, if you like, of the left and of the social state - public transport, whether public or public transport, receives a subsidy. And this subsidy is usually 40% to 50% of the company's revenue. This is the norm, that is the average in Europe. In the case of the OSTH - you are absolutely right - the profits were a place. And that's why we're going to court and that's why we're going to see...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u31	What I told you is profits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u32	Don't demonize the past to hide your own mismanagement after you state-run it. And you lied to the workers, because you basically put them in the single wage. But let's go to see - and that's what I'm going to close, Mr President - what the reality is today. Today we have a hundred and twenty new buses - a decade and not the sarals you delivered us, my dear fellow Member - which are of the CBC, with your own law for direct assignment, the law of your dear Minister, Mr Spirtzi, whom we have used, of course. Secondly, we have - and I thank him publicly and I thank him - the donation made by the Mayor, Mr Zervas, and he brings fifty buses, which he donates to OSH.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u33	Leipzig.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u34	Yeah. Because Leipzig bothers you. Do you have a problem with Leipzig? Man went and bought fifty buses and brought them to OSH a gift to serve the passenger audience. Shouldn't we take them? You don't like it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u35	You'll see them along the way!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u36	That's none of my business. When they come, if they do, we'll get them. If they don't, we won't. It's just things. So we've got a hundred twenty extra buses. Also, because we have made a law on leasing, which is happening throughout the civilised world - we have brought an amendment to allow urban transport to leasing - and the competition will come out on Friday or Monday, by September there will be another hundred and eighty buses on the streets. Therefore, from the two hundred twelve soaps you delivered us, my dear fellow Member - not you, but Mr Pappas - we will have reached almost five hundred buses in a year. So the Prime Minister's commitment from the PPC step, that OSTH will have several buses within a very short period of time to serve a bad passenger, within less than a year. So it will take us twelve months to make up for your own dissolution over the last five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you both. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You're welcome. You can continue with the release of press releases. It doesn't make any sense. We are now entering the debate of the fifth under number 702-18-5-2020 on a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To withdraw the decision to extract the antiquities of the Venizelos station and to continue the construction of the Thessaloniki Metro". This question is chasing my presidency in the House. It's every time it is. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would first like to make it clear to you that it is not from the attitude of opposition that I make to this question, but to find a real end to this issue. I was 20 years old when the Prefecture of Thessaloniki won us with two other young scientists for the fight for the maintenance of the Upper City and was my first job as a landlord - town-builder the history of the ancient town of Thessaloniki. That's why I can tell you how important these ancients are. It's very important. In the timely question I have tabled, I have given you all the information. The report "KATHMERINI" states that the consortium from which it was asked to proceed with the secondment now, instead of maintaining the ancient ones, says that this change overthrows programming for the time and the costs of completion of the plant. He also asks for a series of extra compensation and says he will appeal against the decision of the "Attica Metro" in the referee court and so on. What we have before us is a declaration by the consortium that it is impossible - the consortium clearly says - to respect the timetable, to commit itself to a timetable. So the work of the subway of Thessaloniki goes to the bells. This means that by subtracting these major, global antiquities we will be delaying the project, there will be no timely delivery to the Thessaloniki public. Also, as you know, in 2023 the project responds, stops and will need this money to be returned. We understand that perhaps with the pressure of Mr Zerva, who has his own, personal view of the matter, you have made this request for secondment, that is, you have changed the decision from maintaining the secondment of antiquities. We see, however, now that this leads to a problem both in terms of funding and in terms of the delivery of the work to the public. I ask you, indeed, to reconsider this decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u39	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u40	Dear Mr Arseni, despite the fact that the issue of the secondment of antiquities at Venizelos station has been answered and analysed sufficiently, I will answer your question and the further questions you have asked, in the clearest way, because I think there is a misunderstanding here and there may also be a disagreement. First of all, I would like to go and clarify the issue of the objection you raise to your question, submitted by the sponsor consortium. This, Mr Arsenis, is not related to the design decided to be followed at Venizelos Station, but to the decision of "Attica Metro" on how to pay by means of some studies that the consortium had drawn up in 2017-2019 for Venizelos Station. These studies were at the primary level without accompanying calculations to establish whether it would be possible to build the station by maintaining antiquities. Also, since you are also an engineer, there was no approved static study to keep the antiquities there on the level of a definitive level 2 study that proves that the station can, indeed, be built in this way and that is why it was decided to change the method of construction of the station by posting and relocating the antiquities by building the station. I think you will be well aware that this method has been followed at the station of Agia Sophia which is ready, has been followed in many cases and in the construction of the metro in Athens and has been followed in other areas throughout Europe that have been found anciently. In this context, therefore, the CSCE opinion, as well as the relevant decision to approve the Minister of Culture, which was adopted two months ago, was initiated. And to be clear, as far as the decision to relocate and relocate is concerned, there is no question of relocation, and this is not the case because the project will be completed in April 2023 and a metro will be provided, not like planned, but the Venizelos station and we will also be able to maintain antiquities. I would like to mention something I have said several times and have said it - I think - and other representatives of the 'Attica Metro'. The cost of archaeological excavations so far has cost 135m euros, overcoming the cost of building the Acropolis Museum. So the answer to your question is that today we are talking about the work is going on properly, and, Mr Arseni, I call on you - and I do not say this with any irony - on Monday when I will be at the Venizelos station and I will go down to the building site, which has been done and started work, to come with me and to visit and see these antiquities, because when I took over to the Venizelos station I could not go down. This means that for five years no work had been done but absolutely no work had been done for the station and the previous government and the previous administration of the "Attica Metro" intended to hand over the metro to Thessaloniki without the main station in operation. To understand this and those who are watching us in Athens, imagine a metro operating in Athens without the Constitution. That was the great design they made, because by 2019 all they had done was to have only one plate, that is, the roof on the Venizelos station. I'll go back to my dentistry and other evidence, if you want. I understand that the issue has been politicised and that there are two, if you like, different views among the archaeologists if the ancients have to remain in situ or if the ancients have to be seconded and repositioned. We believe that this solution is faster, we think this solution is cheaper, and we think that with this solution we will actually protect the ancients and have a modern metro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u41	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you mentioned the great cost of archaeological research. But with the solution you are proposing there will be additional archaeological studies that would not be carried out, because the ancients will come out and the archaeological investigations will be carried out on what exists underneath, because these are the Romans and there are also the Hellenistics. So the archaeological cost increases. The study has been completed and has been presented publicly and, indeed, by university engineers. As for Agia Sophia that you mentioned that there has also been a secondment, when they went to reposition large portions of antiquities, as you know, they discovered that there was no replacement study, they did not fit and they did not go, they were not reassigned, as will probably be done with the Venizelos station. So we are talking about the destruction of antiquities in practice and, moreover, it is obvious that there is no relocation study. The previous planning - and it was not the planning of the SYRIZA government, because it was the design of the society of Thessaloniki and of the then mayor Mr. Boutaris - was to complete the metro in about 2021, of the year, except for the Venizelos station. You're not right. It's not the Constitutional Station, Venizelos Station. If you want to say that St. Wisdom is, we might say it, we accept it. Venizelos Station is the abandoned commercial center of Thessaloniki behind the abandoned city hall. It's not a central place anymore in town. It's not even a neural spot of the city's shopping mall. But it is of enormous historical importance and the ancients found there are very important, globally important. It's like we're talking about more than the Adrian Gate, like we're getting out of her place at the Adrian Gate. What we are asking you for is true, because you say and believe that you want this to become a metro faster to be delivered to the citizens, the only way at the moment, to deliver the stations that are ready - only the architectures and engineering are left, so let them be able to operate in time, isolate the Venizelos station that has the specialities with the ancients, keep them in place, because you will not be able to prevent the deadlines. It's obvious. The consortium is now clearly saying so. How do you know, when the consortium says that it cannot, where do you rely and say that it will be possible to implement the project by 2023? The consortium itself says: 'I do not commit'. And it does not just say it about the economic situation, it says about the time: 'I do not commit. Make the studies and then let me tell you. For studies that have not been carried out, I cannot commit myself." So we are going clear for the risk of endurance of the project, we are going clearly for the delay in delivering the work to the Thessalonikians, when at the moment we could deliver the great piece of the work, have the Thessaloniki metro and the Venizelos station, which is two - three blocks from the station of Agia Sophia, in operation later, but also by handing over to the city a huge archaeological site, one more diamond, a UNESCO monument, called Thessaloniki and its Byzantine monuments, more secularly, whether this is the market, the continuity with the Ancient Market that is above, whether this is the main roads and the quadruples built at the meeting point of the ancient main streets. You're right. It's the Syntagma station, but it's the ancient Syntagma station, it's the ancient constitution of Thessaloniki. This is what we level out, this without a relocation study, and there are central stations that could be implemented and operated in all ways for the city of Thessaloniki the modern one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr Arseni, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u46	First of all, let me tell you that there is a disagreement here, and I respect it and accept it. There are those who claim that the Venizelos station must not be, it's okay, the ancients are so important, let it be delayed and go further. With the SYRIZA solution, the Venizelos station would not be delivered even in 2025 because there were three hundred and two studies pending. The money is now being asked by the contractor, Mr Arseni, why did SYRIZA ask about this? Mr. Spirtzis and Mr. Tsipras himself referred to the irrational requirements of the contractor in the metro of Thessaloniki. They forgot to say that the money requested by SYRIZA is for delays over SYRIZA days. In any case, let us go to today and leave political confrontation. Today you told us to do the subway and leave the Venizelos station as it is and go at other rates that will cost much more money and, in our view, will not protect the ancients. Because at the time of the ancient station in situ, what they do not say many times - and several archaeologists say so - is that we would jeopardise the ancients, and now we will extract them and reposition them. And as I told you, this has been done on too many occasions not only in Greece. A characteristic case is the station of Agia Sophia, four hundred and five hundred meters from the Venizelos station, where, in fact, this was done and the ancients were rescued. And they were rescued and will be able to these ancients, when the station is ready, go back to the station and be now accessible to passengers and citizens of Thessaloniki. I do not hide you, Mr Arseni - and here you give me the opportunity to say this - that both the Prime Minister and the entire administration of the Attica Metro have been very concerned about this proposal that you have made and said that it would be advisable to abolish Venizelos because of the antiquities, not to make it or to take it back further and to release the rest of the stations. In practice, this is not the case because as planned the "Attica Metro" 15 years ago in Thessaloniki - "Attica Metro" had designed the Thessaloniki metro - the metro cannot be operated without the main station. It would cause a lot of trouble. And we thought we would ban him and only do excavations and we also thought about putting extra urban buses to cover this gap. But the metro function right now is almost impossible without the Venizelos station. That is why a race is taking place, which is why on Monday I will be in Thessaloniki - your question is really timely - and on Tuesday we will also be the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki and we will inform him of all the work that has been done at Venizelos Station. We'll also be handing out a video of how the antiquities station is going to be there. And I actually have to tell you that archaeological excavations, if everything goes well, will last for up to 12 months and build the metro will take - the station I mean - another eighteen months. It is therefore very realistic for the programme and the timetable we have. If you wish, it is much more realistic than the previous solution, which was in situ, which was the archives there and which, in the opinion of many engineers, would put the ancients at risk, and the station would not actually work. Mr Arsenis, the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are committed to the metro, but he is also committed to something else: he is committed to doing so with full respect for the ancients in Thessaloniki. Therefore, we want ancient and metro and that is the goal. And the target and timetable at the moment are for April 2023. And despite the crisis of the krone, the construction site on the metro of Thessaloniki and the metro of Piraeus, where we deliver the three stations in July, did not stop at all. Works continue normally. These are breathworks, projects that will change the form of Thessaloniki, a city that has been deeply troubled by the metro. The commercial world has been afflicted, the whole city has been afflicted, and I think it has now become a project like the Arta Bridge. This work, however, has the date of its conclusion and this is April 2023. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. We are going to the second with number 711/18-5-2020, topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "No employee of the transformer plant in the Oinofytas of the company "Schneider Electric" must be fired. Here, Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known to you and the entire Greek people that the multinational company "Schneider Electric" on 7 May informed the workers and the operational association of its decision to discontinue the operation of the plant on 31 October 2020. On 13-5-2020 the board of directors held a meeting with them to clarify certain issues and in writing asked for its decision and proposals. The employer's side insisted that the closure decision was final and irrevocable. It is known that this plant is one of the activities of SCHNEIDER in Greece, which had a turnover of EUR 27,2 billion in 2019 and a profit of EUR 3,5 billion. The Greek subsidiary, according to the last published balance sheet for 2018, had an increase in turnover of EUR 12 million. Since 1969, PPC has purchased hundreds of millions of projects from SCHNEIDER, money from the tax bleeding, of course, of the Greek people. "SCHNEIDER" advertises on its website that, apart from the local market, transformers produced at the Oinophils plant are exported to more than twenty-five countries. Now, with justification, the reduced profit rates fly on the road a hundred and twenty families, even making the best possible conditions of departure beyond the legitimate obligations of the company, closing their mouths, accepting closure, unemployment with more. It is, of course, clear here that the factories are being shut down by capitalists when they do not make the profits they expect, when they fall out of competition with other companies, when they are transporting them to other countries with humiliating dividends, such as Schneider Electric, in recent years with many of the transformers factories in Europe. Your claim, therefore, that workers' struggles are closing the factories has proved to be a propaganda to hit workers' struggles. The workers therefore have one main demand - the only request - that the factory should not be closed, that jobs should not be lost, that all of their working and insurance rights should be available. So you ask, as a government that supports this form of economy, that form of organization, that you answer to workers what your position is for this development with the only plant in our country that produces transformers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u49	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I am in the unpleasant position to agree with you, Mr Katsotis, because as confirmed by the documents of the Ministry of Labour through the Ministry of Labour, which I will read to you, the intention of the company on the basis of the information that I have at my disposal is exactly what you described, to permanently discontinue its operation in Greece. I would therefore like to say to you, beyond the political aspect, that this is an unpleasant development. No one can agree or be satisfied when an undertaking closes. And when a business closes, we know very well what that means. It means a loss of tax revenue, a loss of insurance income, and most of all, of all, which we first put to the government, is job losses. So it is a case that a company that has been operating in Greece for years is closing down. And that's a fact. In the context of your question, therefore, I have raised, as a debt, through the services, and I do want to tell you through the procedure we have here, the dialogue, what the service has answered on this matter. Therefore, the Department of Labour Relations Inspectorate of the Boeotian Prefecture responds on 19-5-2010. Indeed, the Ministry of Labour is everywhere present, Mr Katsotis. They are always, over time, with his services, with the arm that is the shield of workers' rights, the EDP. Where there is a problem, it is there to defend the rights of workers. A check was carried out on 19-5-2020 on the Schneider Electric AEBE, and in particular on the transformer plant located in the Oinophile Area, which employs ninety-two workers, as the service says on the basis of the data available and the number of workers. Ninety-two, then, are the workers. With regard to the closure of this plant, the representatives of the company confirmed the final and irrevocable decision - so I am told by the agency, confirming the company's intentions - of the company's management for the final closure of this production unit on 1-11-2020. Furthermore, according to the company representatives, all possible alternatives were considered which could ensure the viability of the plant, including the possible acquisition by a strategic investor, but which, unfortunately, did not bear fruit. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There was the assurance that the workers would receive the compensation they deserve, as well as the assurance that the company would try to find jobs on the job market so that these workers could be employed immediately after the closure of this company. It has also been said that during today's day - on the day of the check, namely - there will be consultation between the administration and the union of workers, who will also be represented by their legal advisers. Because I have already spent more time, I will tell you our positions and the rest of the EIA's control, but also the suggestions immediately afterwards in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u52	Minister, the JRC delegation, with me in charge, visited the factory yesterday and spoke to the workers, who are indeed ninety-two. For several years, however, they worked for about sixty - sixty workers and the rest on fixed - time contracts. But they too will be out of work next year, in the years to come, because all of them, as you know, have a know-how that is unique to this product, which is necessary for our country. Our country will not be left without transformers. So this is a necessary product, as the products of HALYBOURGIA, HALYBOURGIA, TERNA, LARCO, which the owners of all these factories have decided to close, precisely because they did not win what they had budgeted. So what workers have to understand as a whole is that it is prey to the designs of monopolistic and business groups which, when they want to open up and when they are not in their interest, shut down their factories. You are supporting this form of organization of the economy, this barbarity, which leads nowhere and does not guarantee their workers and families, so that they live in uncertainty and insecurity that they have work today and tomorrow they may not have. And we here again on this occasion emphasise the necessity of the JRC's proposal for another form of organization of the economy with central planning, where all these productive activities will be in the hands of the workers and not based on the logic of profit, but on the logic of satisfying the needs of the workers. Minister, we know that the Labour Inspectors' Corps went to the factory. However, it did so to obtain information and not, of course, to impose another policy on it. You're saying the company's looking for a strategic investor. Of course, he is not looking for him because he is struggling for the workers, but in order that he may also be able to get rid of his or her expenses, such as tax, insurance and others, but also because he wants to operate the commercial department in our country, because it is a multinational and wants the brand name as a whole, as we say. That's why he's doing what you're saying. But that too cannot be guaranteed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the company cannot guarantee the jobs of the workers, as you cannot guarantee them, because, as you say, there is market freedom, free movement of capital and that the large business group is planning today whether to have this activity or whether to leave it. So, here, the only aim of the workers is to fight for jobs. The government has to apologise to this world. What does the government say to these workers? That what to do, that's what it's like? That the factories will close? That it doesn't interest them, but are they shutting it down? Is that what you're supporting as politics? We know that's what you're supporting, but what are you telling them today? That he's going to be in unemployment? That they must compromise with a little higher compensation, perhaps with a programme that you will be doing to the OAED so that they can get into a time programme so that they can meet needs? What's with all this? Or are you telling them that "Schneider Electric AEBE" will find them jobs in other business groups?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u53	Mr Katsotis, please, you'll have to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u54	So the workers are watching us - because yesterday we went to them, we told them that this is going to be the timely one - and they want the government's positions from here to the great problem they face in the problem of unemployment. And you know very well that these workers are at an age - and, of course, as we have said, great know-how - and that if they are fired now, things will be very difficult for them and their families, because it is difficult for businesses to work for over fifty and fifty-five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u55	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Just because I am sure our workers are watching us, I would like to send a message to the workers. This government within the ideological and political core of its intentions and actions aims to protect the worker. Mr Katsotis, we are a party within the soul of this party, at its center is man. We support the human being and we want to improve the position of each individual and every worker. So, do you blame us or imply that we want the harm of the workers? I think no one wants it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u57	You want the good of business!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u58	But we see it from a different perspective, because we want to improve the level of people in society, we want to improve the position of workers, we want to create jobs. And that's why you see that while we have a human focus, the tools we've been using ideologically all these years are incentives to create businesses, incentives to invest. There is no other way in the world, Mr President, nor has anything else been discovered. I would therefore like to say, Mr Kattotis, first of all, that you do not have the element of sensitivity more than we do. You're sensitive too, but we're as sensitive as we are. I first said in my protology that it is an unpleasant development, when a business closes, not just that one, but whatever, because we lose jobs, people come to unemployment and the state loses income in tax and insurance. So, then, the privilege of sensitivity has no one. And so do you and I, I'm sure. Secondly, because you raised the issue and ideologically and politically, that we are with the capitalists and that the economic model that we represent leads to redundancies, monopolies and profits, I will return the question, because here in Greece the country's economic path is known with our difficulties and our problems. We have now fallen into a pandemic and you see what measures we are taking in favour of workers in order to keep jobs. So I am going to ask you this question, which I have asked many times, just like my dear colleagues in the Communist Party: can you point me out to me a country in the world that applies what you say? Mia! So let the Communist Party of Greece tell me today a country that applies the economic model on which all workers are in a paradise, there is no unemployment, they live with golden spoons, they live happy, they work very little, there are no capitalists, no owners or the owners are the workers. That's what you said before. Tell me a country in the world that applies this model, Mr Katatotis! The question is not me, but the political system does so over time, mainly from this side, and always well-meaningly. I respect your views. It's ideological, political.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u59	If the president leaves me, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u60	No, now you can't talk, Mr. Katsotis. You're going to ask another timely question to extend it. Because there is no such model in the world. Of course, your views are respected. I'm not saying that you have no sensitivity, but that we have sensitivity. Right now, the Ministry of Labour, as I told you before, with the arms, like the LPD, worked as it should be. I learned from you and from the Ministry of Labour through the agency about this unpleasant development. What can we guarantee? We can guarantee that workers' rights are fully protected, that workers' insurance rights are fully protected, and from that point on, that the tools available to the Ministry of Labour are used, if and if that is finally the case. Because it is an intention for 1-11, and I am linking it, I am not entering the financial aspects of the company, nor am I able as a minister nor a Minister of Labour or a finance government to ban a company from closing down. Nor can we go to the state-of-the-artisation of the operation that you are proposing. Neither one nor the other. We want the company to function, we want it to function, keep the jobs. We expect it and we want it. Therefore, we will fully ensure the rights of workers, in accordance with the legislation in force, you can be sure. We will be on top and we will monitor step by step - and if necessary through the tools - which you underestimate - which each government has, the Ministry of Labour, the OAED, yes, we will support the workers, in order to find them through active employment policies with the skilled experience of another way in the labour market to find jobs or if they are at an age advanced, yes, there are programmes that enable these people to work so that they can have a job in order to retire properly. Thank you very much for the question and for knowing that we are together in the area of worker protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u61	The question raised by Mrs Skoufa, a Member of Parliament from SYRIZA, will now be discussed. I will not read the text of the question because I imagine that the debate will take place in the new data rather than in the data of 30 March 2020. It is Mrs Skoufa's question concerning the government's measures for workers, but it has been made on 30 March. Since then there have been many communications, I say, so it will be in the light of developments. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 30 March 2020, I asked you a question, a rhetorical question, whether the government is prepared to establish a new institutional framework for the protection of labour at the very time of reduced economic activity due to the coronary. And since developments are rapid, I would like to ask directly: Is it true that the New Democracy Government, in order to conclude an agreement with the Commission and disburse EUR 748 million from the profits of Greek bonds that will not enter the real economy, but will go to the debt service of the country, has it agreed - as part of this disbursement - to the Commission for permanent, structural changes to individual labour legislation? Needless to say, the Commission in its report on the latest assessment describes the Greek economy's path in extremely black by mentioning an increase in unemployment, a protracted period of economic crisis and a low income and an increase in poverty in the country, which - not least - are already much higher than the European average. Finally, because the measures announced yesterday have included support for you through the 'SURE' programme, I would like to ask you in particular how much money you have claimed from the European Union, if you were present at the Conference of Ministers of Labour of the European Union, if you supported the request of the European trade unions to disburse money under the 'SURE' not only depending on the GDP of each country, but also on the rates of unemployment, and if, finally, the 'SURE' programme itself in its structure grants only rotating work or if this subsidy is a purely political choice of the government, which you are participating in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, thank you very much. My colleague from SYRIZA came here with a different question written as of 30 March and put to the topical question about different things. That's her right. But on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, the question to the Minister should be no different. However, since SYRIZA's colleague is here, I would remind her that this 'principle', Mrs Skoufa, would come here to every timely question the government would answer, there was no one in SYRIZA's day. Dozens of questions we asked and SYRIZA avoided coming to answer his ministers. So what you see here is something that shows our democratic sensitivity and our reflexes, that we are here to answer all your questions. But ask questions about what you ask in the timely question rather than ask me different things. In any case, I answer directly. Firstly, Mrs Skoufa, you are invoking the elements of Europe - quite different from the issue you raised in your timely question. Well, don't you read it all? When you read a text of the European Commission, you should read it in full. I have them with me because I always expect such questions from SYRIZA, different from what you're asking. The figures say, therefore, that Greece will have a major recession in 2020, undeniably. But this recession is not due to our government's economic policy. It is because there is a pandemic, firstly, a pandemic that went through the global economic system and, secondly, that we are a country which is also seriously affected by foodism and by tourism. So we are vulnerable to this particular part, because foodism and tourism have been closed. But the same text says - unfortunately for you, so you must read it all well, Mrs Skoufa - that growth in Greece in 2021 will be the highest in Europe, plus 7.9%. Didn't you see that? See only the 2020 negative? Firstly, growth in Greece, according to the European Commission's figures, will be the highest 7.9%. Secondly, for your bad luck, just yesterday -20-5-2020 - the European Commission, Council Recommendation came out. This figure says that Greece, apart from having succeeded in the issue of health care, is a globally positive model - with the decision taken by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the government, to put health as a top priority, and today it is the one that enables us to open tourism and foodism more ahead - there is something else, that also in economic and social policy measures Greece takes too high! Do you question the European Commission itself, which gives credit to the Greek Government, that even in the area of social economic policy, we have taken the most drastic measures to safeguard jobs, to safeguard businesses? Look, I'll answer the second part of my dentistry. But I would like to say, Mr President, that here we are living the definition of irrationality and a repetition of the SYRIZA itself. Over the last few years as Minister of Labour I have been following the statements of Officer Representation, I see a SYRIZA of 2013, of 2012, of 2014, of 2015, the same populist and demagogic concept of a logic that there are magical solutions. So you are slowly trying to politically think that for the pandemic it is the New Democracy that is the government that is to blame and that, if you were, you have such policies, which would have no recession or unemployment! Isn't that what you're saying, Mrs. Scouffa? I would ask you very much in your position in your dentistry, to answer me with one question: if you were able to decide politically and economically, would there be a recession? There'd be unemployment? Tell me, I need you to answer that. Because if you answer 'yes', then basically we have to refer you to the Nobel Prize of global invention, because anywhere in the world, even yours in Spain, the Podemos, these political relatives, who break down the labour market with millions of lost jobs, have not found the way to deal with the problems that the pandemic has caused. Well, why don't you call them, tell them the magic solution you have? They're politically related to you. Why don't you take a phone call to the Minister of Labour in Spain and say: "We in Greece blame the government that exists today, because there is a recession and you increase unemployment and we have consequences from the pandemic on the labour market, but we have found the way and because you are our political relatives, we tell you how, so take the way, so that Spain doesn't have a job loss and a recession." Why don't you do it? So stop the mockery, stop the mockery in the intelligence of the Greek people. You neither have any solutions nor have any proposals. You make an irresponsible, demagogic, populist micropolitical opposition. You're trying to show that you have solutions for everything. From there on, this government has taken action. It showed that at the heart of its concern it has the worker, the maintenance of jobs. The figures from both ELSTAT and ERGAN confirm exactly what we are saying. We have stopped the large wave of redundancies, which was ready to take place in March and April - the 'ERGANI' says it - I will analyse them in my denture - and now we are at the second relaunch of the economy, where we take all possible measures to keep the economy up, keep the businesses alive, but above all keep the jobs. And a parentheses. All this unfavourable economic environment with effects on the labour market is temporary. In 2021, as growth is what it says and you did not see and read - not by accident - by the European Commission, and the declining unemployment will run at the highest rates throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u65	Good. Please take care of the time. At a level of parity and justice - perhaps I too - Minister, the question has to do with Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. This means that it was a written question, which was not answered within the period of time that the honourable Member had chosen to ask a timely question. So there's a lot of new issues going on. Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have not answered the basic question, which is the basis for our announcements, and I imagine that, in order to make announcements and to support rotating work through the 'SURE' programme, you can substantiate your specific political choice very correctly and fully. You didn't do that in your first talk. To return to my original question, however, you were telling us that even the poor allowance of EUR 534 per month would cover all the workers and the unemployed. And to give you an example of a number of categories of workers which were not put into the government's protective measures at the time. Should we mention the workers in the cultural field? Should we mention the working hours and wages in the public and general government, the thirty thousand and something of workers in public employment programmes that expired in autumn 2019, the thirty thousand more seasonal workers in food and tourism, whose - attention - also - ended in the last quarter of 2019, work workers, blacklist workers, workers insured with ergonomie, workers with flexible forms of employment and those still being embarrassed about the consequences of tax evasion and avoidance, undeclared and alleged work? Or should I refer to the other - will you allow me to say - unexplained for your social group a statement that you will give the special allowance for all the long-term unemployed? Only one third of the long-term unemployed were covered by this allowance. All these workers are more than a million of our people. You said in your first speech that you, even with the MDGs, fought the redundancies. It is at least wrong because in March we had twenty-five thousand redundancies and according to the OAS data, unemployment in April was launched to over one million of our fellow citizens. This increase in unemployment, compared with April 2019, is of the order of 21.73%. And not to mention 2019, in relation to March 2020, we had an increase of 4,72%. So, Minister, your measures are obviously not just horizontal and are fragmenting and putting windows on the windows, but increasing allergy instead of reducing it. I am not going to mention the rotating work which, in our political crisis and view, is unfamiliar, labour and rightful. And one final comment. Clearly, SYRIZA and no government in the world could completely block the recession. Nevertheless, our political choice, as well as the political choice of most European countries, is the full payment of wages and the provision of liquidity to the market and business. This option, for full payroll coverage, you did not qualify for it. What you want is for you to have tire workers, with half the wages, with half the life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. It is confirmed that it is the same SYRIZA, this demagogic populist party, which has solutions at all times. But in my question, my colleague. Why didn't you call my counterpart, the Spanish Minister for Labour, who is the Podemos, your political relative, tell her your magical solutions, that Spain does not have millions of unemployment jobs? Why don't you do it? Why didn't you answer? Or in my second question, what are your proposals, the magic proposals, the proposals of'sensitivity' and'sensitivity', which, if we did, would have no recession, nor would unemployment in Greece increase, that is, this declining that started and ran and increased the trend of declining since June that we took over by the government and confirmed by ELSTAT. We dropped unemployment to 16% from 18.5% in February 2019 on your own government. We threw the unemployment of 2,5 points down in a year. This de-escalation, however, unfortunately, stops, is temporarily retreated because of the pandemic. What's your magical solution? What do you suggest? I asked you, because you must not just come here asking and lift up a cloud of ambiguity to give out the feeling that you have the solution. What's your solution? You didn't answer. And now I come here because I think it is also a shame on the part of SYRIZA to speak of part-time work. Madam Colleague, do you know that you are in normal circumstances those who are the champions of part-time and temporary work? Do you know that the four and a half years of SYRIZA, based on the elements of "ERGAN", are you the ones who made the 320 euro generation? One in three, in the years of SYRIZA, Mr President, took EUR 320, less than the unemployment benefit and 55% of the new recruitments were part-time and temporary. SYRIZA Project four and a half years! Are you self-criticizing when you're talking about us? My second question is this: say you are appalled - and, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to hear it, because you are here in the Chamber and this particular element is unprecedented - flexible forms of employment. Flexible forms of employment! You say that to yourself that you have made them your main policy. Secondly, do you know Mr. 1892/90? It's the law that's been in force for thirty years. I've said it many times in the Chamber. There can be no modern labour market without flexible forms of employment. The Communist Party disagrees. His observation was accepted, but you ruled. Why didn't you remove it? Why did SYRIZA not abolish flexible forms of employment, as promised in 2015 out here in the Constitution? Why? Why did you lie and maintain flexible and rotating employment and part-time work? I'm asking why? And you come here today to pretend that you are against the flexible forms that you have kept them for four and a half years? Where did you make them and make them dominating? I will talk about the 'SURE' programme or cooperation, as we call it. Mr President, in the face of this great problem facing the country, the recession, the temporary growth of unemployment, as I said in 2021, will both be overturned. The country will go through a virtuous cycle of dynamic growth and a strong divergence in unemployment. Unemployment at the end of 2021 will be lower than the unemployment of 2019. The Greek Government does not remain inert. With sensitivity to the dilemma to have a big wave of redundancies, we took action. The evidence invoked by his colleague SYRIZA is wrong. ERGAN indicated that in March 2020, the forty-one thousand From that point on, redundancies were cut off on the basis of "ERGAN" and, in April 2020, we made a positive balance plus seven thousand two thousand jobs. What does that mean? To be realistic and responsible, like us in the New Democracy, means from the one hand that we have blocked the wave of large redundancies, which were about to happen because of the pandemic and the effects on the economy. Unfortunately, we could not avoid the loss of jobs expected in tourism and foodism, which is not recorded in the 'ERGAN'. Did you have a solution there to operate hotels and foodstuffs properly in March and April? Why don't you tell us who he is? Because that's what you imply. On the basis of these remarks, the programme that we have brought together and which will be legislated by the end of May is a programme that is implemented in most European modern countries. He has another philosophy. Support work and avoid unemployment benefits. So we come with this programming that we are doing, which will come to the House, to make up for the income of the workers. Hold it. You have the party newspaper "AYI" that says other than others to many things. The replacement of income is from 84% to 100% of the income of the workers. I'll say the number again and be more careful. From 84% to 100%. We put a fence down to the minimum wage and we come to support business and worker at the same time. The worker with his income and business through the reduction of wage costs with money coming from the European Union, with money we receive. It's 1.4 billion. We're fighting. This battle is being fought by the Treasury, that's where the negotiations take place. They're not telling you right. Negotiations on 'SURE' take place in the Eurogroup. And that's where we claim to get more money. There is a hope that we will get more money, as the Minister of Finance has said. We want the money for the SURE programme to support jobs. Fellow, you come here with a promise, with the same lies, with the same fruitfruits hope as you did in 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014. But the Greek people have known you since 2015. He saw from what you said nothing happened. He saw you were dominating parttime work. It's done for your day. You are the party that brought the team redundancies with wide signature Ahchioglou - Tsipras. Group redundancies in the country's labour law have the name SYRIZA. This will remain historically marked for you. The government is doing everything it can. Employees know that by the end of the day we will be next to each and every one of us. We will fight to keep the economy and jobs alive. Hope and optimism are something we seek. In 2021 he will return to all Greeks again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u69	Before we move on to Mr Kegeroglu's next question, I would like to say this. It's happened twice, and I want to point it out. The procedure is to ask the Member and the Minister answer. The Minister does not ask and the Member is answering. This has been done before with Mr Karamanlis and Mr Katsotis. Please. The second question will be discussed with No 705/18-5-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "On paper No.4670/20 three months after his vote."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u70	I would rectify you, Mr President, if I may. You ask the MPs. So we have to say some things and give us some tolerance. Because there is many times a debate in this Chamber on flexible forms of work, I would like to say a word, even though my question concerns pensions. Since about 2000, an initiative has been launched, if you wish, by the European Union, to optimise the forms of work. But at the same time there was the demand and need for safety on the part of workers. In other words, we also have the flexibility that the European Union has been pushing forward and demanding economic and security, which workers and, of course, all those who believe that work must be a right without cutbacks. But that went through different phases. In the crisis, in 2010, there were measures that facilitated flexibility. Unfortunately, the third memorandum to which the SYRIZA Minister referred had measures such as mass redundancies and more flexibility. But this cannot be an alibi for today to get through all forms of flexibility at the same time without any safety for the worker. What do I mean? If you apply half-time and rotating at the same time without conditions, then it does not lead to 50%. The original law provided for the conditions that are not present today. They're wrong for critics at 50%. It can also lead to 25% pay. Fifty and fifty. It's a 25% reduction. So 75% is not tolerated today. Therefore, there must be the basic principle for all the businesses that will be supported. I welcome the government's perception of strengthening work with active employment programmes. It's positive. But since the business is based, it is supported to reward the work. Not to be impoverished with alpha or beta excuse. Therefore, we need to respect the collective agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u71	You have one more minute, because you talked about another matter, not your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u72	We've been inquiring, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u73	Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u74	But I think it's a general assumption what I said. There is a historical development of the issue of flexibility and safety at work. Unfortunately, however, the spiral of flexibility has now been shattered. Safety is sought for the worker. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u75	Okay. Let's move on to pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u76	I think we will all agree on that and there must be a balance. As far as pensions are concerned, Minister, I am one of those who are very well aware of the effort made by the ECA, especially the situation that has taken place. Don't argue with me at least. I know he's got a mess. In an institutional context and in practice in the EFCA. From that point on, however, we must see how we deal with the situation. There cannot continue to be unfinished pensions and even increased as a result of changes in the law and other procedures, which have not yet been implemented, have been changed. We have a hundred and sixty thousand major pensions pending their extradition. Of these sixty thousand only thirty-seven thousand are retired. Only thirty-seven thousand. So, the hundred and ten thousand that they don't get at all, nor do they temporarily survive this time? Did I ask you a question if you're going to help them as an advance payment of the pension they are entitled to? I didn't tell you to give them a gift. As an advance payment of the pension they are entitled to. You didn't hear me. So we come to see that we have a huge problem that is not solved and will not be solved by digitisation. Understand that. Digitalisation is about a time and not all the funds. So you need to see with a coherent plan how manually the issues of the past with the existing pensions will be resolved. From one point to the next, IKA and the funds had an electronic system. From one point to the next they can be digitised. The rest, the old ones, they can't. Therefore, issuing new digitalised pensions is possible. You need to look at your law implementing. Your law still does not have the system to apply. No pension has been issued with yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kegeroglu, the suggestions in your dentistry, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u78	So the question is: will you take any initiatives that will really give a solution to the question of outstanding pensions? When will the provision of your own law be applied, where in some cases is it more positive to treat pensioners than the Katrugalos law, much more positive and not applicable? In other words something positive is not to be done, Mr President. Our question is bigger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u79	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to start off the questions raised by Mr Kegeroglu and answer the questions and the comments he raised on the work and the issues of the cooperation programme, which we shall be voting on in May here in Parliament. I would therefore like to say, Mr Kegeroglu, that the figures you say are not correct. Our simulations on wage adjustment in this programme are, I repeat, the replacement from 84% to 100%, first. Secondly, you forget to say, not deliberately, perhaps because the procedures we are going to follow have not yet been thoroughly worked out, that the worker will be fully insured in his original nominal salary. Thirdly, this programme has a specific duration from 1-6-2020 to 30-9-2020. Fourthly, it concerns full-time work. Fifthly, the change in the contract of employment is forbidden. Sixth, the dismissal of workers entering this program is forbidden. And we're doing all this to keep our business and workers alive. Of course, the state is going to add to the loss of the percentage of labour by rotating employment, which has been 30 years ago in our country. There are thirty years and when you compare the two forms to rotating, this is more attractive in the sense that this form comes to complete the income of workers and give a percentage through the 'SURE' programme and the financial resources that we will draw from the European Union. So we do what we can. We're gonna apply this law. The aim and purpose is to keep jobs, the aim and purpose of which is to keep businesses alive, and we will pursue this, as has been demonstrated, in every way possible. We have so far shown that the measures that we have taken, either the EUR 800 or the EUR 534, are on their own, but in practice they have also been accompanied by full insurance. The cost on a monthly basis, taking the e-VENA data per employee with the average wage covered by the Greek state, is EUR 1,200. That's how it turned out to be what the Greek state did. It wasn't the 534 euros. Make a reduction in the average wages that e-Efca has today for the workers and you will see that the cost of the state, what our government has covered, is EUR 1200 per employee. That has been covered, Mr President. I now go to Mr Kegeroglu's essential question. Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to thank you for at least recognizing what we have received. Because, of course, we have received, as you said, 'bulk', I would say it a little differently, more mildly, a dissolutionary situation. The worst part is, however, that SYRIZA has been cheating on the Greek people for four and a half years. I remember Mrs Ahtsoglou, who went out to the channels and promised every little while and a little that there are no dues to the pensioners, that there are no pensions outstanding. Second, when we took over, I asked SYRIZA to ask a question. She was scared, and she didn't. He had to. I told them I would not follow the course of my predecessors, ask me a question, and I will answer you. They did two parties, the Change Movement and the New Democracy. And the answer came on February 28th. There are a million fifty-four thousand outstanding cases, budgets, additional, one-off, widow's pensions. These were the results of SYRIZA that he was hiding. Thirdly, I never in my political career and in 2012-2014 as Minister I did not hide the truth. In other words, I have always said that there is a time-consuming problem in Greece in the insurance system and that the outstanding pensions are a pathogen that we need to solve. But my position is different from Mr Kegeroglu, the problem is not solved with people, i.e. with the service players, unless the digital system is found anymore. Mr. Kegeroglu, you were State Secretary, together we were at the Ministry. In December 2014, in a communication with Mr. Hallaris, the then President of “SEDICA”, we presented to the Greek people for the first time the digital system “ATLAS”, which wanted one with a year and a half for full operation. And what happened in 2015 when SYRIZA took over? When I handed the file over to delivery - they told me that pensions should not come out of machinery and that they should come out of people. You underestimated the digital system "ITLAS". You "downloaded", you made Lockdown and you left and handed us that picture. And what did we say? We have said that we will do our utmost in two directions. The first direction: To cover the gaps that exist, i.e. the increased flow of outstanding pensions. Second direction: Bring the digital system "ITLAS". I am pleased, Mr Kegeroglou, to tell you that, in Greece at the end of June, we will finally present to the Ministry of Labour the great incision, the great achievement and this will seal the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the digital pension "ATLAS". Thus, in future, we will solve the pathogen, which has been accompanied for over thirty - forty years by our country's insurance system. This system does not exist magically. I have made it clear that at first 40% of new pensions will be introduced, which is the cause of death, the most sensitive category, and the primary sector, recognising the importance of the primary sector. In January 2021, we will be incorporated and reached 55%, in mid-2021 we will now have reached 70% and at the end of 2021 at 85%. Now we're gonna have a real estate, and we're gonna have this big one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u81	Minister, please in your dentistry the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u82	The rest in my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you very much. Mr Kegeroglu, I will answer you more specifically on matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on matters relating to work, Mr Minister, I will say just two words: respect for collective agreements and any measures to subsidize work and, of course, respect for other rights. You cannot, however, say that we are reducing the required meanings from a hundred to fifty - a proposal that you accepted - but in practice you say that this right is only for the aid and not for the quarterly payment of the unemployment benefit. There is therefore a lot of discussion, which we shall be asking for, precisely because they have not been specific to all of them. We're coming to pensions now. A lot of conversation! Did anyone say you shouldn't digitally retire in this place? Was there a reaction like that other than what you mentioned about SYRIZA? I think not. Nobody! What exists as a problem - and there is no one magician or you to solve it - is that from a year ago and before there is no digitized insurance record of insured persons in general. This cannot be solved by magic, because in 2015 the digitalisation launched, Mr Brutsis, stopped. Haven't you gotten it? Haven't you been told? So the files weren't digitized. Your announcements, then, may relate to pensions that will be issued from now on, but do not relate to the sixty thousand outstanding. Most of the successive and in particular those relating to insurance funds that are not digitised cannot be in. I therefore consider this first of all to be a commitment, which will not be implemented. Of course you put water in your wine and say "We'll take off the wheelchairs, some categories of widowhood, etc." All right, the hundreds of sixty thousand outstanding basic pensions to come out, needs a move in which the whole House will consent. I'll tell you a personal thought. It's not the Change Movement, we haven't talked about it, but it's coming all the time. I'll suggest it to you down. Before that, however, I would like to tell you that there are hundreds of thirteen thousand applications pending, related to the so-called 13th pension in May 2019. One hundred and thirteen thousand have not been paid. They were not paid because there was a problem in the original. Any objections? Didn't it happen? Were they tested? Weren't they tested? Today, there are hundreds of thirteen thousand advances pending. They've got to be done. Also, there are twenty-seven thousand left - notice the number - from the social dividend you gave. Objections were made, twenty-seven thousand. I conclude with my proposal, to finish the debate, you tell us. I tell you with full knowledge of what has happened and what is happening today to the ECA and the insurance funds. Because those young people who you hire from the public works or those programmes you have already made, to have them make pensions, will not be able to get them out because, until they know, they will have spent a year, I will personally propose the following and place all the parties. All the experienced pensioners who have been retired over the last five years should be given the opportunity to work again, at a fee that we will define in a fair manner, without having any impact on their pension rights, so that they can obtain the outstanding pensions. There is no way that it will be solved otherwise, except at a cost involving a certain number of people who have been retired lately. Rescind them. Bring an arrangement to the House. I'm sure all parties will vote for it. There is no way that pensions will be issued with the absence of staff, not with the young people of social work, nor with the temporary or the unqualified figures, which you want to digit as magically. It can't be done! Bring a solution and I think the House will support it. Also, tell us when your law will apply. You didn't tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u85	Your proposal is very clear. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu has raised many issues and you will allow me to have a little more time, with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u87	There's a bill next, Minister. We need to speed up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I would like to go directly to Mr Kegeroglu's question, 'what about temporary pensions'? I would therefore like to inform the House of something that is an estate of all and goes through all governments over time: Temporary pension is issued in two months, maximum to reach three months, and everyone applying for it. I would like to inform the House that, unfortunately, those who do enjoy it within these two to three months - all of which - but a large part of the workers who complete their working life and go to pension do not take this positive measure of temporary retirement on his own initiative. First of all, that. Two. Mr. Kegeroglu, don't level them. I see your anxiety, which is common concern for all the outstanding pensions. First I put it. I will repeat, however, that the issue of outstanding pensions, which is a pathetic 40-year-old, and your government has not solved it when you have ruled for so many years, will now be solved with this New Democracy Government forever. He didn't take the corresponding steps. And then there were thousands of pensions. Nor are these general approaches "take people, give them pension sacks and take them off". We go realistically and responsibly. Mr President, after the digital pension 'ATLAS' at the end of June, which will be 40% of the new pensions - I gave the timetable by the end of 2021 - 85% of the pensions will come digital. Yes! And it opens up a subject for the previous pensions. So far no party, Mr President, has admitted that they are going to be digital. Even Mr. Kegeroglu now disputes it. Well, it's gonna happen. Two. So what about the outstanding pensions?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u89	They're gonna die.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u90	The question, Mr Kegeroglu, for the pensioners who are still pending, was to do so when you were government. Then they didn't die? Now they're gonna die? Here we are, protecting them. Mr President, I respond. First. The human potential that will be released through digital pensions, which will be released by the "ATLAS" system, will go towards the outstanding pensions. Two. The digital system "ATLAS" also has retroactive potential. With regard to 40% of outstanding pensions, which relate to reasons of death and ex OGA, the primary sector, will be able to refer with digital application to the "ATLAS" scheme pensioners who are unresolved and retired, not in years, not in weeks, not in months, not in hours, in seconds. So we also make a retrospective intervention with the digital "ATLAS" system. Mr. Kegeroglu, a little patience. We kept a timetable with absolute integrity. I said from the outset that we would do it. It's been a year. I was committed to June and despite the pandemic, you see that the administration of e-ECA and the employees of e-ECA and DRCK are trying to do this great achievement, the wretch, for the Greek people and the insurance system. Mr Kegeroglu asked me about the Brutsi Act, as he said, Mr.4670/2020, our insurance reform. I had the opportunity in an interview last week to announce - and I would like to tell the House officially - the time limits for the implementation of the law on critical issues. Law4670/2020 came to stay. First. It restores the unconstitutionalities of the Katrugalo Law and the freelance professionals, the bleeding it did from their incomes, collapsing the question of the productive dynamics of the world of scientists, self-employed, farmers. We have freed the profession's relationships from income. Two. We are reintroducing supplementary pensions, in accordance with the decisions of the Council of State, and we are making the system a reward from over thirty years. The pensioners will no longer be manipulated or directed by legal offices. They know they have a law before them, and above all this law concerns young people in our country. All young people in our country with a working life of thirty years and one will receive an improved pension in relation to the past. The law is passed three months, Mr President, and I ask why it has not been implemented. I could invoke the pandemic. Because with the pandemic all e-Efca, all e-Efca employees stopped working. You are asking me, in other words, in the pandemic to implement a law which we do not have employees. However, I am announcing the following to the Greek Parliament today. First. The first issue was to apply new insurance for the categories of freelance professionals. March 2020. Yeah, it was a feast. We did it. Two. To become an organisational integration of the eFCA, Mr. Spanaki. Because the unification of all the insurers under the National Social Security Agency is a great intersection for the Greek state. We have an agency, e-FOD. We did it. It's all unified. Into the pandemic all this. Third. It is the award of the ones, which we had set a target, to be automatically given along with the main pension. I should therefore like to inform the House that, since May, the one month, which was delaying two or three years after the main pension, will automatically be granted along with the main pension. We did it in action. Fourth. One and a half million people, doctors, lawyers, engineers, farmers - Mr President, I have to say this because it is important - who have received their insurance information by going to the branches, by blocking, bureaucracy, suffering, they are now automatically taking it. We did it in action. With effect from 1 June 2020, the new reduced insurance contributions for full employment of 0,90 will apply. Five. On June 2nd we restore the injustice of the SYRIZA law to the two-five thousand pensioners, which SYRIZA cut the supplementary pension. They will get the supplementary pension back, not because the money has suddenly been found, because it is a decision of the justice we respect. I'm going to go on with what we're going to do next. In August, the pension will be paid to the pensioners who also had cut the pension, by SYRIZA, to the pensioners who work. We'll give them the 70% that SYRIZA cut them off 60%. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In October, the retrospectives of supplementary and main pensions, Mr Kegeroglu, will be provided. October! What the Council of State imposes. We'll give the retrospectives to the pensioners who deserve them, who SYRIZA has cut off unconstitutionally. In September, too, we will give the main pension, based on the Brutsi Act, as you say it, on the basis of our insurance reform, which now gives the new pensioners increased rates. The month of September. For January 2021, I said it before, I will not repeat them on pensions, on how they will be received digitally with the "ATLAS" system. These are the milestone deadlines, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u91	Minister, please finish. We have a bill later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u92	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to say that the government is absolutely consistent in pandemic too. It is doing everything that has been promised and will restore the sense of responsibility of citizens, pensioners, on the part of the insurance system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u93	You have a very good communication with Mr Kegeroglu. You can tell it privately. We move on to the third with number 709/18-5-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The necessary measures for the schools of the General High School and the Professional High School of Kissamos". Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u94	Undersecretary, last November, we had a seismic vibration of 6.1 points of the Richter scale in western Crete, causing serious damage, including in the building of General Lyceum and PAPAL Kissamos, which were found to be inappropriate and inappropriate, following an autopsy of the responsible services of the "CITIRIAN INFRASTRUCTIONS S.A.". Since then, the situation has been as follows. First, the students of the two schools had to be taken to high school in the area and to the facilities of the training centre in Tauronitis for the workshops of the PAPAL Kissamos, attending their afternoon shift courses, with whatever impact this had on the disruption of the school process and planning the life of their students and their families, the psychology of the students and their proper preparation for the Greek examinations, as well as the educational courses organized. The region and municipality in their unanimous decisions consider that the temporary solution of their cumulation with the two gymnasiums and their operation at afternoon hours causes serious malfunctions and problems at the expense of pupils. You are aware, therefore, that the pupils suffered double suffering, on the one hand, because of the particular problems faced by the students during the school year, which resulted in further stress and uncertainty and, on the other, because of pandemic and emergency measures. The suffering of these students began for three and a half months. Secondly, the "CITIRIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A." as it had to, proceeded with urgent procedures in the procurement of the prefectures and assumed the obligation to place them in a ready-made space. The development work of the countries selected for the installation of these rooms is half ready, only for the GES, and the tender for the supply of the twenty-eight prefabricated rooms completed at the end of January 2020. Nevertheless, the ‘CITIAN SUBCOMMITTEE S.A.’ document on 30-4-2020, which I will present for the Minutes, highlights the delay in the completion of the procurement of auditors on the basis of an appeal by the second minority against the decision of the board of directors of the CBC, thus suspending the conclusion of the competitive procedure. Judicial decision, as far as we know, is not yet there. The courts were closed. We enter June and 1 September open the schools. And thirdly, apart from the delay in supplying the rooms, there are now new data. These twenty-eight rooms - which in any case cannot be a permanent solution for the accommodation of pupils - do not provide minimum conditions for their safe operation because of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u95	Go on to the question, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, show some tolerance. I'm closing up with the questions. On the first issue of the suffering suffered by pupils, what measures will you take to ensure that, by direct legislative intervention, there are additional mobilisation provisions for the students of the two high school pupils involved in this year's pan-Hellenic examinations? As regards the second to delay the supply of rooms, there should be an immediate accelerated completion of the procedure for the accommodation of the two schools from September, with a clear timetable, as well as emergency procedures to ensure additional rooms equal to the number on the basis of the protection measures envisaged by the pandemic, so also the setting-up of the placement sites. And finally, to ensure adequate state funding for new schools that meet modern anti-Semitism standards, to stop this disgrace of containers and the double shifts that exist. As far as we know, nothing has been done about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u97	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, in fact because of the earthquake of 27 November, we had all the resulting problems. We are talking about situations which were also sudden, unexpected and extremely problematic for children, of course, for the whole local community. I must tell you that intensive efforts have been made to tackle them at an unprecedented speed and let us see why we are making this available today. We had the issue of the earthquake, as I said on 27 November. Of course, the ideal thing, because we are talking about children, school and education, is indeed the construction of a new school complex. Who can anyway disagree on this thing. Also, however, in contrast to the desirable, there is always the feasible or practicable and realistic. We understand and understand that the building of a school complex requires time, which we know is years. On the other hand, I would like today to give the actions which have only taken a few days after the earthquake. In particular, on December 5th, only eight days after the earthquake and following the notification of the request by the municipality to the Ministry of Education, a meeting was held at the Ministry's premises to resolve the housing problem of school units and the General School of Kissamos, on a permanent basis, but at the same time to a bridge for the children of teachers, for the temporary solution to the question of housing. These were the bodies of the Municipality of Kissamos, representatives of the CBYP, Mr. Diagalakis and I. Following this meeting, technical support was provided to the Municipality of Kissamos in order to implement a series of actions. And, in particular, what are these actions? To justify the urgent need to supply and place prefabricated rooms by the City Council so that the Ministries of Education and Religious Affairs and Infrastructure are given written consent to the CCT in order to justify the procedure set out in paragraph 2(c) of Article 32 of Law 4412, so that the CCT can provide and deliver these rooms. At the same time, the number of rooms needed by the municipality should be finalised in cooperation with the Department of Secondary Education and the Ministry of Education. To build the necessary bases of armed concrete on which the habitats will be installed. Furthermore, the declaration of competition was published on 30 December - we understand the speed of years - for the supply, transport and assembly of twenty-seven prefabricated rooms, twelve for the general school and fifteen for the PES to cover the temporary housing of schoolchildren. In fact, there was special care, through the donation of TERNA, for the supply of toilets. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] In the period during which he referred to it, you raised objections from the second retailer of the TBR competition, which was examined by the Proceedings Review Authority. The decision of the authority was adopted on 23 March and justified the CIS. However, the applicant company also appealed to the Administrative Court of Athens and was assigned to be tried for 29 May, i.e. in a few days, in a week from now. Finally, the Municipality of Kissamos, in collaboration with the region, have undertaken to complete the bases on which the rooms will be placed and the overall configuration of the area. The municipality and the region have signed a programme contract for the financing of the project by the region. As the municipality has informed us - you mentioned this before - in the document that we received on 19 May - all this can obviously also be submitted to the Minutes of the House - the space to be placed is already in place and shaped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u99	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u100	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u102	Madam Secretary, I think with your position you can confirm what I mentioned in my prototype. I have no reason to argue or deny these.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u103	That's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u104	No, it's not bad. We're just in another phase now. I mean, he needs something else. Time has passed. The case is stuck. Because, on the one hand, the development of the ESDP area is also delaying the procurement due to the objection made by the second minority. We enter June and two or three months later is September. We also have the pandemic, which means that all data must be updated, so that there can be concrete measures and health and protection of the educational community. This is what you must take into account and you must run at even greater speed, in our view, in order to resolve the issue. Of course, we in time - as you say - from January, on the basis of the problems that have arisen with the earthquake and other years' problems, have tabled a question to your Ministry for too many schools. Not only for Kissamos, but also for Vammos, for Nea Kydonia, for Sfakia, for Drapanya, for Gramvousa Municipal School. It's for too many schools. I don't want to list them now. But as a ministry, you did not give an answer. The answer was given by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and it was other words to be loved. In other words, the Ministry of the Interior said: 'We have given the municipalities money', the municipalities say: 'It is little money that we have taken, we cannot, we are raising hands'. I mean, from Anna to Kaiafa. And, finally, with this story somewhere the child is lost. We would really like you to give us some answers about all the problems that schools employ, not only in western Crete, but throughout Crete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know why I'm saying this, Mr. President? We have an earthquake intensity in Crete, which reaches up to 7 degrees of the Richter scale. I mean, there's a chance we might have the fatality. We're out of it, of course. However, we need to speed up checks on the basis of the standards that exist. They are inadequate, of course, but they must be done. Therefore, given that we have such issues, we call on you to take concrete and effective measures, such as unlocking the procurement process of the prefectures, to have state funding so that they can run new school buildings. I do not think it can be an excuse that from November until today you have just held the meeting. And from then on what has happened to this day? Is that the consultation? You must tell us what action you have taken so far for the new building. Finally, I would like to emphasise the issue of child mobilisation. You didn't say anything in your protology. I guess you're gonna tell your dentistry. It is, however, what our people say, 'it was wrong to call, 'the donkey also ate'. That is, after the earthquake in November 2019, the coronary came. Well, actually, it's been lost all year. I'm not planning the kids. And they also had a psychological burden. There has been a similar treatment in other cases, such as in Kefalonia, Lesvos, Chios, Psarras, Oinousses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u105	Now let the Fisherman and the Oinousses go to Manolis. Let's stay in Kissamos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u106	I'll be done, Mr. President. So what the four hundred students and parents are asking for is self-evident. They ask, in other words, that all the students of Kissamos be included in a molecule regime, which provide pan-Hellenic examinations, without conditions and conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u107	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u108	Mr Synthyriakis, if you think that what I mentioned before, is simply the announcement of a meeting, I would say - because you know the procedures very well - that this is unfairly reproached. If you think that all that has happened is self-evident - that is to say, speeding up the declaration from the CCTB, all this speeding up procedures, but also the technical assistance given to the municipality and the question of the temporary solution, but also the actions that I will now say about the permanent solution - then I repeat for the second time that this is an unfair reproach. I would therefore like us to compare other cases where we had such emergencies and reacted so quickly to the state. Here we have a court procedure. I can't speed up the court proceedings. I guess you wouldn't ask me for that. But I have to tell you, as you know very well, where this is at the moment. Also, with regard to the issue of spatial planning, we, obviously, can, in consultation with the municipality, monitor the process of shaping. On the other hand, we do not have any other jurisdiction in this respect. But our cooperation with the Municipality of Kissamos has so far been exemplary. For the part of the permanent solution - because you asked for the next day to tell you what has happened - I will tell you: Already on December 5, in communication with Mr. Digalakis and Mr. Arnautakis and Mr. Vice-President of Chania, Mr. Kalogeris, on the issue of building new school groups GEL and PAAL Kissamos, the following were discussed: The possibility of technical support with a series of documentary to the municipality, as well as possible funding from the ROP of Crete. I'm talking about a permanent solution. At the same time, necessary decisions were, as I have said, given technical support. What were the necessary decisions of the municipality, why can't this be done - as I said - automatically? Decision on demolition of the existing PSA - GEL Kissamos school complex. To make a decision of a municipal council on building a new building, always in cooperation with secondary education, so that for the new building the study can be sent and approved and transmitted immediately after the CIS. A reasoned decision of the City Council to classify the existing area on which the schools, the school space, are to be built, should be taken in order to be covered by Article 14 of the 4585. At the same time, because we already have developments, the Municipality of Kissamos notified the Ministry of Education from 15 April - we can, anyway, submit the document - the necessary spaces for the new building complex. The Ministry of Education's Technical Services Directorate has already sent the municipality, by e-mail, the required documents and data, which will compile the application file for approval of the veterinary programme - you know that this is a prerequisite - for the housing needs of GELs and PAPAL Kissamos. So, in conclusion - and also to go to the question of access - to the issue of the temporary housing of GEL and PAEL Kissamos, the process is progressing at the fastest possible pace and despite the judicial refugees and the health crisis, which is obviously expected and expected to affect. On the other hand, it is expected - and I repeat - that it will be completed as quickly as possible. On the question of permanent housing, the process has already begun. The required documents from the municipality are expected to be sent to the Ministry's service for the preparation of a landmark plan. We are committed to responding quickly from the Ministry when we receive these documents so that the work and Kissamos can proceed to a new school complex. On the question now of students' pan-Hellenic examinations. For the upcoming pan-Hellenic examinations, the centres of study have already been proposed by the secondary education department. For GEL Kissamos, the 2nd Kissamos High School and the PAPAL Kissamos – as was the case, in any case, traditionally, an examination centre has been proposed in Chania. Now, for the wider issue of admission to higher education, there are laws 4186/2013 and 4653/2020 on the import of pupils affected during the school year into higher education in excess of the number of importers. This right is for those who apply - a declaration on this subject and participate in the first, after the event, in a period of regular examination and is concerned with the introduction into the relevant academic year. However, the area should have been declared in an emergency by Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u109	Finish, Mrs. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u110	I shall close, Mr President, with a proposal. This procedure, as you know, shall be activated by means of a decision following a pan-Hellenic examination, subject to the conditions and within the limits laid down by those provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u111	We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 716/18-5-2020 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "The major consequences of special education and education from the epidemic. Under the responsibility of the Ministry, measures are to be taken.’ And Mr Delis' question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as you know very well, the blow of pandemic to polypsy and disabled children was very heavy, most severe. We are all imagining - and the rest of us Members - the addressees of touching cries of agony for many children with disabilities. And we have this voice, their voice, and we are moving to the House today. It is not only that they have been violently cut out of the special learning process, as the special schools have been closed indefinitely - there are so far no plans for their reopening and, generally speaking, there is nothing on the government's side for special schools - but it is also that these children, like all disabled people, have been deprived of and still lacking that complex multidisciplinary intervention that they so much need. You will now tell me that, in any case - and even before the coronary - all this is poorly provided by the state structures, as neither the staff arrives, nor the infrastructure is sufficient and appropriate. In addition to all these and the restrictive measures - the necessary restrictive measures, we certainly agree - that apart from special schools, special intervention centres, like the AACC - AACC, have been closed down, so that children with disabilities remain locked in their homes for a period of three months now. The results of the ongoing incarceration of these children with disabilities - because they are separate children, they have a disability which is even more burdensome - are tragic. There are not only stagnation and serious difficulties in the whole of them, but many of these children have relapsed, up to the loss of any skills they have managed with too much difficulty to obtain over the past period. Consequently, the questions raised are as follows: What does the New Democracy Government intend to do to take all the necessary measures to ensure that, if the pandemic, which is not excluded by experts, there are such permanent scientific training staff and suitable natural rooms with the corresponding provision of square metres per child, that we are still going to say and that the possibility of a home-based scientific intervention is ensured, of course, with all the necessary protection measures, for those children who are once again informed of the need to remain at home? What does the government intend to do for the extraordinary funding and recruitment, as we have said, of the necessary and permanent scientific educational staff, so that these children with disabilities do not deprive them of special teaching support, psychological, counselling, the necessary therapies, their scholarships, their treatment, and any other kind of scientific support? Finally, what will your Government do to fully serve all the special education structures, the special schools, the integration departments, the parallel support, the JSCs, the advisory centres, with mass, of course, recruitment and training and special scientific and special assistant staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u113	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, the central issue in your question is obviously the issue of pandemic and all the consequences, let alone our children, who have had for a very long time, unexpected, violent, abruptly, to stay at home, let alone the children who are following the structures of special education, which, in fact, with particular concern and concern, are following the consequences of incarceration. You are obviously aware that we too are being received, receiving too many concessions from both parents and many concerns about the possibility of opening up the structures. I remind you it's not all at the Ministry of Education, it's also at the Ministry of the Interior. However, some concerns about the CFP have already been taken. It is, of course, out of the Ministry's competences, but yesterday we discussed the issue of the opening up of the JAPDs, which will help a great deal for, if you like, a return to a new reality for children, who are so in need of their children and parents. The same suggestion I have to say to you, in order for the special committee to reply, we have done from the Ministry of Education and for the schools of special education. So we expect the committee to decide on the possible reopening. So far, I remind you that their report has been negative, as has all schools. We have spent a period of disruption involving all school units, of course, and the special education units. I imagine you agree that it was right to follow the suggestions of experts, which affected both general education and special education. This crisis was unprecedented. It obviously hit society, the economy, our freedom and, of course, it could not leave our education unscathed. From the outset, however, we have - I would say very quickly - in the implementation of measures, which we have tried to heal as much as possible, to correct as far as possible these consequences of the long stay of children at home and of disconnecting from school reality. To be specific and because time is limited, I would like to tell you what we have done at this time for the children who are at home, after the structures of special treatment have been closed, the special treatment schools. Already on March 19, with special circulars, guidance was sent for the remote support of disabilities students and students and special educational needs with distance support from our coordinators and from the ERCS, because you mentioned before the interdisciplinary approach of the issue. Also, with the Circular of the Ministry of Education to all school units, we gave specialized guidance and, of course, access to material, which relates to the education of children with disabilities and special educational needs. You mentioned in the proposal that this is a simple mission of circulars. I would say to you that this is not a simple mission of circulars, because this is also a matter of material, but also of instruction that is not just about learning material, but, as I said before, and the activation of ERC services so that they can distance themselves with sessions even using - you know - digital media to help and help children. I don't want to knock off the situation. Obviously too many child cases at the moment were not accepted or could not be fully received. But there was the first step and a very important deposit, so that what would have happened by living would have turned it into a remote process. I would also like to tell you something, which is extremely important, and if I did not say so, I would be unfair to the willingness and volunteering of too many people. I asked for a circular on April 16 from certified interpreters of the sign language to help in teaching TV and it was touching that so many people volunteered to go and help with the piece of educational television. For the first time, children with deafness problems were given the opportunity to attend courses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u115	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u116	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u118	First of all, let us make it clear that we do not question the suggestions of the scientists and the scientific committee. There are other scientific suggestions and, in general, scientific responsibility and, of course, political responsibility, which is borne by the governments concerned. Unfortunately, however, Minister, and unfortunately children with disabilities - so far with the events of the government, there has been no essential care to support these children and their families. We will repeat what we are writing in the question: The interest of the Ministry has been exhausted, limited to sending circulars for distance teaching. One would say that this was not necessary. This intervention of the Ministry is necessary. That's how he had to do. He did, however, forget to provide for all the necessary measures, which are necessary for the equal participation of all these children, leaving enough of these children outside the procedure, because obviously not all of the families have all these electronic means, but he did not even - and I am talking about the Ministry - provide for the very thing that television will work for children with disabilities, of course, with the particular difficulties they have in learning. In short, they were instructions to seafarers, as we say, and from there on it was the responsibility of the parents whether to do so and how to do it. As a result, the vast majority of parents - and we speak with them, Minister - are sad to note that the televised forms of the Ministry - eClass, webex - cannot be exploited by themselves or much more than their children for the simple reason that they have not been made for disabled people. There is also a comforting element here, and the comfort is the wholehearted offer of teachers and scientists from special schools, which, at the entire time of quarantine, would even say, the essential support from the government, sought and managed to communicate and contact these children and their families, offering them absolutely necessary support, solidarity and humanity. These families need all these feelings. But that, however important it may be, as you can see, is not enough. As for the government, we'll say it's a pity. A few days ago, her thanks to the teachers were to send them the MATs to the Regional Education Department at Attica, when the teachers dared to protest about the compulsory movements of teachers from special schools in the KESY, because there is a lack of staff in the KESY, and why the process of opinions needs to be speeded up, in other words, hesitating that the Ministry should cancel, undermine, limit, even this valuable educational contact, for which I spoke a moment ago, of teachers with these children. With that, Mr President and Mrs Minister, once again these families of children with disabilities are left alone and are literally a thousand pieces to care for their children and within the pandemic of all the known individual responsibility that so much - but so much! - It's simple to share your government's responsibilities with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u119	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u120	As for the families of children with disabilities who have been immersed in poverty and unemployment - and there were enough of them, I shall end, Mr President - the situation in these homes is really tragic. I would just like a minute, Mr President. Let me not be the one who pays the marble of today's delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u121	Because of a special issue now. And the Minister is sensitive to this and all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u122	Be well, thank you very much. We recall that, in normal circumstances, the families of these children with disabilities were once again raising their own Golgotha to cover their gaps - we say now - public and free education and they fully assumed responsibility for the additional support of their children in the private afternoon and, of course, very high costly scientific support from the respective centres for therapies, treatments and so on. You see, in Greece of the 21st century, as in all developed capitalist countries, special education, rehabilitation and disability care are increasingly in the hands of individuals and entrepreneurs, while public structures are very few. The absence of a scientific design for an integrated public and free special treatment system is literally emerging, so necessary and so realistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u123	Okay, don't ask, though, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u124	I'm hanging up. It is the crucial question, Mr President. Let me formulate it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u125	Start with it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u126	Is the crucial and irreversible question: Is it or is it not the responsibility of the State, Madam Minister and the Government, in addition to the material terms of staff and infrastructure, and to ensure all those multidisciplinary guidelines even for the personalised approach of disabled people? Because - you know - recipes in general don't fit, every case is different. And ultimately, in what terms and under what conditions should special treatment be performed in pandemic conditions? To these questions you will have to answer sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u127	Good. Normally, you had to start off, but we talked about the topic... Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u128	I want to be specific, Mr President, because I know we have a matter of time. Accessibility of special education students: Especially in terms of manuals - because I want you to have all the data - all the manuals of primary and secondary education have been transferred to a Braille Code and have been printed by the DIOFANTOS ITY in collaboration with the blind and rehabilitation centers, the well-known KEATs. All primary and secondary education books have been adapted to various fonts for the blunt students from the Institute of Education Policy and the ITHY "DIOFANTOS". Digital school manual adjustments have been made so that they can be accessible to all categories, the disabilities of our students. In fact - I have all the elements here, I can submit them - there are certain digital applications, interactively, as I said, school books, the digital e-me platform, the digital repository of the "Photo Tree", the National Symbol of Educational Content - Central Gate "Photo Tree" once again and the Micro Area "Photo Municipal". I want to give you some information about the use of the Greek school network during the period of the children's pandemic in special education schools. There were therefore four thousand four hundred young students, while in the electronic class e - me there were four hundred eighty-three schools - I always talk about special, Mr Deli - two thousand nine hundred seventy-two teachers and two thousand three hundred ninety-two-two-sixty-seven lessons. Here, then, you quite rightly mentioned before that this was because teachers put back at a very difficult time in a overthrow, as we said, of programming. Indeed, we owe them a great thank you. At the same time, however, these teachers were also given tools to be able to reach the students. It wasn't for granted, it wasn't self-evident. However, we stressed and emphasised the entire school network with the school classes, e-me and eClass, we gave the opportunity for the live use of the WebEx platform. This means that these teachers, who supported the children - but also interdisciplinaryly supported the children through KESH - also found some tools to do so and found some instructions. Let us not underestimate them all, it is the result of hard work, of service actors and, at the same time, of political leadership. Because you mention what had happened before the special treatment, so let's go see that for the first time in ten years - we have discussed it here many times in the House, Mr Deli - we are starting appointments. There have already been a thousand forty - the first ones to be achieved by the first special notice and the second one - and the next ones to be completed, the third, fourth and fifth. In the current school year, the Ministry of Education provided five thousand two hundred thirty-one credit for recruiting members - you mentioned it before, you had asked a question - of specialist and special assistant staff. The three thousand nine hundred forty-three were made available on 4-9-2019. The number is the largest ever made available at the beginning of a school year. Support was given to general education units - psychologists, social workers, people who also contributed and contributed to special education - six hundred ten members of specialist training staff, special assistant staff and the remaining four hundred eight special training staff, because you spoke about strengthening the ERC. All of this so that I can conclude - because I know that there is a problem of time - that the special training this year has been extremely important, so that it can be very well covered in time, as in the parallel record support, this self-evident obligation of the state - which was not always self-evident either in terms of speed or number - and this year. Amid the difficult pandemic conditions we tried to find ways to approach and help, to care for the children who stayed at home with the help of teachers and obviously also with the help of their parents. We are currently exploring ways in cooperation with experts, so that we can see whether the green light will be given to open the special treatment schools. The request is already in committee. At the same time, we have also shown our care for special treatment by moving fast and committed to the procedure for special education appointments. I repeat that this is the first time in the last decade. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u129	Good. Let's go to the last two questions. It will now be discussed the first under number 707/18-5-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Exceptively favourable debt arrangement for tax administration irrespective of existing and inclusive debts". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Vesiropoulos. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. We do not need to say much to argue about the difficulties experienced by taxpayers - debtors, on the one hand, and on the other, to comply with the arrangements that have been in place since the previous period and, on the other, to pay the current obligations. So I very briefly want to see whether the Ministry has drawn up a provision, a framework, so that those who at this time of the pandemic, at this time of recession do not manage to be okay in their obligations not to lose control, but to have a second chance. I have the impression that too many people will lose regulation, because one month or two months - let us say it - will not be right in their responsibilities, it will not be able to cover them with the difficulties they have. And, of course, there is the more general problem for people who planned to pay for the obligations at this time - old obligations - and had not been put into regulation. I would like to ask if at some point - and this must be done, of course, in a short time, because a situation should not perpetuate that there will always be arrangements - they will be given the opportunity to have a new arrangement, which will certainly have an end date - a window that will be opened for a certain period of time - for people to join. And I would like to say that I am pleased, Minister, that you have brought, from what I have read, the issue of regulating the issue of retroactive and its taxation. We expect it to be the provision according to what you promised for fair treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Besiropoulos, axe, and soon, like Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you are one of the most experienced parliamentarians. It must be acknowledged that you have not been linked to practices and reasonable populism, and that is why I believe we will have a substantial debate. As you know and point out in your question, the suspension of tax obligations and the payment of certified debts for enterprises affected by the coronary pandemic, as well as for workers who are in suspension of their contract of employment, has been introduced. The Prime Minister announced on Wednesday the suspension of payment of the instalments of certain debts to the tax authority for those enterprises that remain closed, as well as in the tourism, catering, transport, culture and sport sectors as well as in June. Such provision also applies to workers whose employment contracts are temporarily suspended and who also have the right to suspend payment of the instalments of certified debts. Clearly and accumulate debts. However, we are not unreasonable to demand that these debts be repaid once and for all, and indeed the Minister for Finance, Mr Stagioras, has pointed this out. Everyone realises that the payment of accumulated monthly debts cannot be demanded directly and simply. Having collected the full information and since there is no further time-limit for the pandemic measures, we will consider the new framework for the debts of businesses, professionals and workers who have been suspended. Because, above all, our main concern is the need to protect public health, and to this end, we have taken immediate restrictive measures, the consequences of which were not the size that was expected, without, of course, claiming to be negligible. For more than two months there has been a freezing of economic activity, and that has had an impact on public revenue. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In my dentistry, I will give you concrete information, but also our positions on the framework for repayment of these debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u133	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, I think you should take note of the time we both save and keep him on another occasion, which is what we are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u135	Of course, Mr. Kegeroglu. Don't look at you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u136	Mr Minister, there have of course been the announcements you have made and a lot of people will be facilitated on the basis of the measures taken. But I will tell you an example of what I mean. Not only are the activities with the SAR considered affected, but also a number of other businesses and activities, which are affected by this country's crisis. Of course, there will be a recession anyway. It depends on the efficiency of the measures, but also on the time and the way in which the economic potentials will be exploited, to see what the level of this recession will ultimately be or rather what depths, because it is a problem, and what a reduction in activity we will have. In any case, however, there are huge problems which do not seem to be typical of the CIS. I will give you an example, which I have already told you in the measures, because they have been excluded from the measures. In tourist areas, that is to say in areas living from tourism, there are activities that are not considered as affected in the city. For example, a supermarket in a city is not considered to be affected at this time, otherwise. However, a minimarket or even a supermarket in the tourist area is completely affected. Uh, this code isn't the people affected. So this man, who did not open up his business in March, did not open up in April that he would open this year and had already loaded the warehouses and had moved on to supplies, modernisation and renovation, as they say. So what I mean is that you do not just walk on the basis of the CSRs. See that the problem in this period is essentially about all citizens and all professionals. So with a drip on 30 May we now have to say that none of those who 1 June or then go to put the dose will lose the adjustment that it has entered, even if they are not the people affected. In other words, there should be such a provision. And if you want, allow it to give the dose even at any time. A second thing you need to look at - and I think it covers the context you said - is to see a window that is about exactly the cases that they want to pay, but because of the pandemic, their programming has been overturned. And I am not only referring to the debts of this period, but they may also have been debts of an earlier period. Let's see how we regulate this, too, without going back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u137	Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u138	Colleague, I'm starting with public revenue. Many were those who expected the absolute depreciation of their public revenues for more than two months that had stopped all economic activity throughout the country. There was a decrease, but not the level alleged. The net revenue of the state budget was reduced by just EUR 399 million, compared to the monthly target. As far as the net tax revenues of April are concerned, there is a delay of EUR 488 million. In particular, tax revenues for April stood at EUR 2,84 billion, while the target set in the budget was EUR 3,42 %. The decrease was of 17.2% and was less than expected. This undoubtedly contributed to the incentive we gave to provide a 25% discount for taxpayers who would pay their debts in due course, as well as the option to offset 25% of VAT payable in April 2020 with future tax obligations. In fact, Mr Colleague, the actual reduction in the net revenues of the State budget in April amounted to EUR 399 million, in relation to the monthly target and is due to measures such as the suspension of payment of VAT and the certified debts for companies affected by the coronary. According to data from the State General Accounting Office, a primary deficit of EUR 1,506 billion was recorded in the first quarter compared with a target for a primary surplus of EUR 783 million. The state budget execution course has a deficit in the state budget of EUR 4,062 billion compared with a deficit target of EUR 1,655 billion. The net revenues of the state budget in the quarter amounted to EUR 14.110 billion, reducing by EUR 1.343 billion or EUR 8.7% compared to the target included in the budgetary report 2020. We're not reassured. We know and can overcome the difficulties. The relaunch of the economy and the measures announced by the government of a total of EUR 24 billion are hoped to create a climate of recovery. With regard to the debts created during the pandemic period, as I have told you in my prototype, we are considering the framework within which they will be repaid. It will be a rational framework aimed at facilitating citizens to meet their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u139	Very good, Mr. Vessiropoulos. It was a good thing, minus 25, but I'm telling you, there's a portion of the Greek people who's paid only one of their tax returns for the krone. They're still the suckers. Minus 25 why doesn't all those who've paid all their tax obligations go one-off?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u140	These measures, Mr President, are for the pandemic, for the relaunch of the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u141	No, it's not like that. You'll have to think about it. We didn't even tell these people! We now move on to the fourth and last, with number 691/11-5-2020, a top-level question by the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Finance, on "Relief and support measures for legal and other scientific sectors". And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Besiropoulos. Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the legal association, like other scientific branches, is being particularly tested today in the conditions of pandemic. Political and criminal trials have been effectively suspended since 11 March, and administrative courts have also been running. Only a few criminal cases are brought before them, those at risk by limitation. The rest will begin to be tried as from 1 June and for only 15 days, until the court year is extended. The vast majority of lawyers for about six months will have little or no income, but their financial obligations run as well as their living needs. As you know, the government has included lawyers in the infamous teletraining of vouchers, with the known ending. Thus, on 2-4-2020, the Prime Minister announced that they will also join the EUR 800 allowance paid to them in early May. However, to date there has been no arrangements for payment to lawyers and other scientific disciplines. So for these reasons, Minister, we ask you: When will the PM commitment be implemented to pay the allowance of this EUR 800? Furthermore, in view of the negative for short-term professionals, what about the government's planning commitment to abolishing the trade fee? In today's circumstances it is also fair and necessary to proceed directly with the abolition of the trade fee or at least its determination, depending on the professional's income. I'm done with VAT. Legal fees fall under VAT 24%. This burdens financially recourse to justice and restricts citizens' ability to claim legal rights, and also reduces the scope of legal employment. Minister, do you consider the possibility of court proceedings at least subject to a lower VAT rate of 6% or even 13%? Finally, should you not also consider the immediate release of lawyers and other self-employed persons from the VAT obligation for annual incomes of less than EUR 25 000, as is the case in most European countries, instead of the EUR 10,000 currently in force? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u143	Me too, Mrs. Sacorafa. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the first part of your question is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, I will not avoid answering you. All this time, the government had two main priorities. The first was successful treatment at the health level of the pandemic, taking all necessary preventive and restrictive measures to prevent the spread of the virus, but also to strengthen health structures. Your party and your Chief have recognised publicly - and that is good - the government's successful health management of the pandemic. Our second priority was to support the real economy, businesses, workers and free trade. The support measures made best use of the available resources, which were not inexhaustible. In fact, aid has been granted throughout this period and there has been a cover for the immediate needs of two million citizens. I would remind you that to date all the funds allocated to dealing with the pandemic come from the state budget from national resources. As far as the lawyers you refer to in your question are concerned. The Prime Minister, in a straightforward manner and showing increased reflexes, took the initiative to suspend the 30-day teletraining programme and at a fee of 600 euros for scientists freelance professionals. Following the intervention of the Prime Minister and the abolition of the teletraining programme, it was decided that scientists, involved in the programme, would normally receive EUR 600 for April, in the form of exceptional financial assistance, in order to support their income in this difficult period. I would like to inform you that the exceptional financial support of EUR 600 has already been credited to fifty-five thousand scientists. I shall refer also to other support measures, but also to the second part of your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u145	Here, Mrs. Sacorafa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is clear that we have never called into question the government's successful response to the crisis. We did not question that, as I said. But here we are talking specifically about a very specific sector. And since you referred to teletraining, let's get things started. The teletrain fiasco is known to everyone. You had to get scientists into a miserable or, anyway, fully failed process with the training platforms and their contents completely ridiculed the government project. After the glorious end of teletraining, the Prime Minister on 12 April, as I said before, announced and pledged that the sum of EUR 800 will be paid to lawyers and free traders. You talked about scientists in general. However, this announcement to date has remained late and the prime minister's commitment has remained unfulfilled. Apart from that, however, in view of the consequences of the epidemic, the government has the responsibility of taking immediate measures to relaunch the economy, as you have said, so that the rates of social and professional activity are restored to levels that ensure the least possible loss of GDP and employment, and hence public revenue. The abolition of the trade fee, Minister, is one of these immediate measures. We do not forget, as I imagine you do not forget, that it was also an election commitment from your government. Today, however, it is even more unfair to ask for the annual trade charge established, while lawyers and other scientific branches have not had any revenue for six months. Alternatively, instead of a universally anticipated trade fee, provision should be made for a pro rata determination on the basis of the income of the professional self-employed person. Let us now come to the issue of VAT exemption for annual income under EUR 25 000. You know that this was the Troika proposal in 2018 and that this is happening in most European countries. It was not then that Mr Tsakalotos did, and the corresponding limit remains at EUR 10 000, which is not reasonable. Do you, in the end, intend to continue Mr Tsakalotou and SYRIZA's policy, which you have been electorally conquered, when you have been constantly talking about overtaxing? Finally, you know that in most European countries, legal services are subject to a low VAT regime or are exempted from it, precisely because the citizens are entitled to legal support. In Greece, on the other hand, legal services are subject to VAT 24%. The only winner, Minister, from this procedure is the Greek state, which receives from a note, for example, EUR 200, EUR 160, and is EUR 40 for the lawyer. In other words, the citizen pays 200 euros and you understand what happens. Finally, heating oil and legal fees only have such a burden and no other good. Minister, I think that the respective demands of the law sector and which other scientific disciplines also touch, and you will think they are perfectly reasonable and must be met here and now. I think you can do it and you must do it because it is a critical moment and it is a sector that is really suffering right now. Thank you very much, Mr President, and apologise for overcoming time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u147	Okay. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the scientific branches and, in particular, the lawyers have not been supported. The grant of EUR 600 is not the only support measure. There is also a number of other measures, such as the 40% reduction in the rent, which, after the Prime Minister's announcement on Wednesday, is extended, the suspension of tax and insurance obligations for lawyers as well, the 25% discount in the event of the payment of insurance contributions from which they can benefit. The 25% offsetting of the VAT paid in due time with future debts is also a beneficial measure. You understand, therefore, that other legal support measures have been implemented and implemented and we are here to consider further measures if necessary. There is also an attempt to speed up procedures for payment of public debt to lawyers. You also know that at the moment the planning and preparation for reducing the tax advance, which will cover all the sectors affected and announced by the Prime Minister, is under way. In July we will be able to proceed with the detailed decisions, objectively weighing all the data, in terms of rationalisation and social justice. With regard to your questions about the reduction of the trade fee, and the VAT exemption for an income limit of up to EUR 25 000, you know that both of these issues were in the New Democracy programme. But you know that the consequences of the pandemic on the economy and the budgetary field have created new data. They are shifting some of the plans, which we had on tax evasion, but without dismantling these objectives, and that is what I want to make clear. After all, as he has said, the reduction in taxes is at the heart of our policy. When a financial area arises, our first option will always be to reduce taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before entering the agenda of the legislative work, the necessary epidemiological break of ten minutes will take place, namely at 12: 20 a.m. we will start the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism entitled 'Special forms of tourism and provisions for tourism development'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 21 May 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, organised and single, in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate on the bill will be held by the rapporteurs and special speakers for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for 12 minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes, pursuant to Rules 64, 97, 98 and 107 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. As far as the speakers are concerned, we propose that the parties be represented by analogy of their parliamentary power, with a circle of forty-five MPs from New Democracy, twelve MPs from SYRIZA, three MPs from the Change Movement, two MPs from the Communist Party of Greece and one MEP from the Greek Solution and Mera25 respectively. I think that there is no objection to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u151	So the House unanimously approves the procedure. Before we begin, the Minister has asked him - quite rightly, firstly, to present legislative improvements and, possibly, other things, to take account of the rapporteurs, speakers and speakers from the start. Minister, you have the floor. I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u152	Yes, it does not take much time, Mr President. I wanted to accept a parliamentary amendment, with the general number 310 and the special protocol number 3, in relation to the distinguishing title for the rented furnished rooms that we give an extension - I said it to the committee too - the amendment - was not yet ready by the services to meet the request of SETE, who came and asked for this extension. Also, I'm doing a series of legislative improvements in various parts. That is what we in the committee had said in general terms. Self-defaults on the board, for example, or the relevant departments in the region can carry out tests on health protocols and some other minor changes. But I'm also making two important changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u153	Minister, testify to the legal improvements so that they can be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u154	Of course I'll testify as soon as I'm done. I am making two improvements to two articles which have caused discussion, so I would like to say a few more words. First of all, all town planning articles were also written in collaboration with the services of the Ministry of the Environment and they are all requests from the collective hotel operators, so that no shadows were suspended, because things were heard in committee. However, because in Article 31, which is intended to have the single area of mixed land, which is agricultural and forestry, but the term of excellence, which is excellence, has been misused, I have asked the services to review it so that it works properly. It's not working. This provision is incomplete at this time as it is, and I am therefore withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u155	What article do you withdraw?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u156	31. In Article 32, we are making the improvement, by removing paragraph 1 and by clarifying, because the question of Article 32, in order to make the provision there too effective, is to clarify the specific urban factor used in golf courses for the necessary accompanying buildings, such as changing rooms. So that is the factor we make clear. It is for the sake of other cases, but we are closing down - if you like - this legislative ambiguity, because that is what this is about. We are not introducing new provisions. Golf courses are allowed as hotels are allowed and, of course, this factor on these areas is much smaller, I think one-tenth of it is compared to the rates used for hotels. So there is no question. It doesn't change the logic of the arrangement. But it becomes clearer and the confusion that existed between golf courses and golf courses, which are two equivalent conditions, is left. They don't make any difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u157	Article 31 is therefore withdrawn. Legislative improvements to be distributed to colleagues. The majority rapporteur, Mr Christos Boukokos, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that lately Greek tourism and especially the opening up of Greek tourism after the pandemic has been at the heart of global interest. The number of publications we have recorded in recent times demonstrates the multi-dimensional importance of the Greek tourist product not only for the interior of the country, for employment and for the national economy, but also highlights its importance at a pan-European and global level. This is illustrated by the enormous interest of the media in how exactly Greek tourism will be relaunched. Indeed, all European countries and many countries worldwide expect to see the first steps to open Greek tourism. The government with a structured plan presented with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the co-legislative ministers has demonstrated that it has design. It has proved that it also has the will to reinitiate Greek tourism under these very difficult conditions created by the pandemic. We think this year is not a loser after all. And a very large part of the losses will always be safely and designed replaced by the remaining tourist season in the coming months. In this context, it is important in this context that in the Greek Parliament's plenary today, the bill of the Ministry of Tourism, which in the conditions of the pandemic, is to amend and strengthen the Greek tourism product by establishing a framework and introducing new tourist products that have been tested worldwide and which have brought many economic and other benefits. So this bill, for which some have wondered 'but well, in this cosmopolitanness with Lockdown in tourism, which we do not know how it will reboot, what will be the revenues of Greek tourism this year, do we need such tourist products?' It is now, ladies and gentlemen, to be strengthened, that must be amended, which must be extended to the tourism product. Now the eyes of all other European countries, but also worldwide, I would say, are focused on Greek tourism. So this happy juncture, in the difficult circumstances of announcing the opening, strengthening of Greek tourism and voting for a bill, can create the conditions that will make the Greek tourist product a leader. Are all the problems created by pandemic solved by the bill? Definitely not. I would say to you, to be honest, that neither with the measures announced solve all the problems the pandemic has left behind, because these problems have not yet been captured. We must end the tourist season, see if we have suffered damage, and what is it, and then prepare the policies, if we have recorded precisely. However, this given fact does not prevent us from announcing, as has already been done for the support and relaunching of Greek tourism, nor any bills to vote that in difficult circumstances alter and strengthen the tourism product. Because if in difficult conditions you can cope, it is natural that you can cope even better and play a leading role when these difficult conditions pass. That is exactly what the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism is doing today. That is exactly what the Greek Government did the other day. In fact, everyone would like the financial resources, the money reserves to be paid for all the damage caused by the pandemic in tourism, catering and transport. That's desirable. But you know it's impossible. Economic resources are not inexhaustible. Besides, how can a loss as a whole be compensated without the record being completed? I explain with this position both the measures announced and the contents of the bill. We're starting a war. And we are opening a new avenue, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, security avenue, through which we will escape from the dangers posed by the pandemic and move to a safe environment for strengthening and developing the Greek tourist product. The main objective of this year is to ensure that Greek tourism operates safely and to limit as much as possible the damage caused by the pandemic. But what is being voted today also relates to the strategic planning of tomorrow, because precisely it amends the tourism product. As a result, the critics of the voices of different parties and especially of the Opposition that there is no strategic government planning. I can assure you that a strategic government planning strategy exists and is implemented - step by step, with security and planning. And what does that prove? That we are one of the first tourist destinations we open worldwide. What else does that prove? That measures are announced and bills passed. But, if you want, dealing with both the health crisis and the crisis at our borders in Evros proved that this government can not only develop strategic planning but also implement it with positive results. As a result, crossing the contents of the bill, the country is introduced into a new tourist market. With this bill we upgrade our tourism product. We specialise it and promote it to a particular tourists' audience of high purchasing capabilities. This is done by diving tourism as well as by glaming, and by removing the bureaucratic obstacles to the development of the Integrated Tourism Development Areas. Greece in these circumstances can and must demonstrate that it is a leader in the tourist market, which we have lost for many and various reasons in the past few years. No one is asking us to abandon our comparative advantages, which are our cultural heritage, our glorious sun and our wonderful seas. We are going to add, amend the tourist product, strengthen it, and above all achieve what with this bill? Something that has been called for for many decades ago. So to leave the script that says beach and bright sun, without abandoning it, we come and prolong with the new tourist products that we today institutionalise the tourist season. The prolongation of the tourist season is requested for all regions of the country, islands and land, for islands and land. It is easy to understand that we cannot talk about the sustainability of a tourist product with a tourist season of three or four months at most. If, therefore, we are making great use of the advantages of the country, in addition to the classics that I mentioned - sun, sea, cultural heritage, environment, promotion and protection - and, especially for this year's and perhaps next year's health insurance of the tourist destination, which is called Greece, I think we will have taken a number of steps. More detailed, however, ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law, the improvement of the institutional framework for the development of diving tourism is achieved, provisions of a development character are being introduced, a glaming mark is being introduced with the aim of diversifying the tourist product and modernising the institutional framework for a better response to the needs of the tourist market. I hear some criticism of glaming. Why set the terms of the Hotel Chamber and not the Ministry for who can obtain the trademark? There is a more stringent assessment, there is a more objective assessment of whether a businessman has complied with the terms of the assessment carried out by his colleagues, but also at the same time his competitors. This is the strictest evaluation and it is an institutional evaluation, because the Hotel Chamber is the state's tourist advisor. It is an institution that is recognised and accepted. So what do we want? Everything that a Minister decides to do, to create bureaucracy and delays, to raise political issues, or to deal with these issues of top importance in the form of the tourist product on technical - professional terms. There are, of course, provisions of competence of the Ministry of Finance, which are also included in the CRL issued last Friday, and of course health protocols are also included. All the media post how Greek tourism opens and what health protocols include. We are shaping the situation, especially for this year, at European and not just national level. And of course, as I said before, we have with the provisions of the bill the strengthening of the business flexibility of the institutions establishing and operating areas of integrated tourism development. The environmental footprint of this bill is expected to be positive, as developments concerning the establishment and operation of diving parks, ladies and gentlemen, put things in a legislative framework, which means controlled. We say, why can't auto-spot diving alone, the vast majority of which are good intentions, but free dive in an archaeological site can give us the assurance that it will be safe for our cultural stock? Is it not better to be in a legislative and control framework? For the areas of integrated tourism development, I have heard some protests from the Opposition. However, there is nothing else to do with this bill, with its provisions, bringing into these regions what was the case in the USSR and in the USSR which the previous government has adopted and implemented significant investments. Since I've been cuffed in my memory, it's Valley Argolid's memory that was advertised by the previous government. So now that the same thing is happening for the integrated tourism development regions, because it is clear. Why is it unconstitutional, why is it anti-environmental? And to say it to other parties on the periphery of Parliament, I understand it, but to say so, the Civic Opposition which - well - supported these plans, for what reason? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also helps to relaunch the tourist process. The country is escaping from old-fashioned idealisms in recent years that have kept it stagnant and more gaining extrovert, which extroversion is needed to highlight and develop different tourist products, while by modernising the institutional framework, the abolition of bureaucratic strangles and the resolution of legislative gaps and ambiguities, the development of entrepreneurship is favoured and the tourist product is upgraded. All of this is done in the light of the protection of the marine and sea cultural environment, because in the New Democracy we have proved in practice that there can be tourist development while protecting our cultural heritage and the unsurpassed environment. So our country, to close as I started, is not just sun, sea and beaches. Our country is much more. We may know that. Let's make it known to the rest of the world. Our history, our past, our natural wealth, when they are properly managed by a specific and upgraded framework, can bring many benefits to our country. Any fears expressed are respected, but an institutional framework is a vehicle of certainty. The absence of an institutional framework creates uncertainties and problems. The Government of New Democracy, with its policy, but also with the efforts of all the operators involved in tourism, attempts to develop the Greek tourism product which has been put into difficult conditions, in the guise of the crisis created by the last pandemic, offering essential tools such as those announced. Of course, we also have the next phases of the plan, because it urges us to put all the ammunition on the table, to exhaust it all, to put all the money on the table from the beginning, and no one can say for sure what will happen next in September, in October. I told you that the government has proved that it knows how to draw up strategic planning and implement it. With all this, restarting tourism and focusing on this difficult start, with all that has been institutionalised, with what we are voting on today, will be more secure and more effective. That is why I call on you to vote in favour, despite any variations you make, of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you. The rapporteur-General, Mr Catherine Notopoulou, has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the bill coincided with the notorious announcement by the Prime Minister of the measures that would save the economy and Greek tourism. But the treasure is carbon. Once again, your announcements, Mr. Theocharis, but also all the government staff, have shown that your government has absolutely no plan, but it has only one wish and you, especially, have a pleasant programme to transfer action indefinitely. The Government of New Democracy does not give any support at all to the small and medium-sized enterprises which are the backbone of Greek tourism. It does not provide support to businesses, you do not provide liquidity. For five days now we are discussing that tourism operators, businessmen, have absolutely no access to the business tools announced by your government. You know they can't use them and you insist on lying. You choose to be completely uninterested in the real needs of tourist businesses and all related professions. You don't cover municipal fees, while you know that businesses are in trouble, and the municipalities are in red. You do not reduce the residence tax, you do not implement a serious domestic tourism programme, you adopt the title "Holidays for All" from the proposal of SYRIZA, but you do not adopt the logic. It is obvious that you are simply dropping a drop in the ocean, with an insignificant amount of needs and adopting a completely wrong logic. You are baptizing unemployment, baptizing rotating work, suspending work as a shield of work. But you know that, with the measures you take, you are effectively abolishing collective agreements. You know that you bring flexible working relationships, half-hours, half-wages, you know very well that you leave unprotected those who do not have contracts, those who are seasonal workers, those who are unemployed in the tourism sector. No substantial support to people who serve the vision and product of Greek tourism for all these years with their souls. Thousands of workers, therefore, are unprotected. We are talking about seven hundred thousand and over-working people in tourism and food, and you know it very well. At the same time, of course, with this indifference, you find a golden wish to make gifts at the heirs. You have done so all the previous period, and you have done so with the measures you have announced, and with the bill we are discussing today. You are still advertising health protocols, but three days now we ask you to present them. You have chosen the presentation of the measures with the Prime Minister to refer to them with a very well-deserved presentation, indeed, but health protocols we have not seen. You have not even given answers as to who makes the health protocols. You said, of course, that certification would be done by individuals, another service. You don't say who's going to control. You mentioned a series of principles to us without clarifying who does what. Nor will this cost and burden be shared for the businessmen called upon when you take these protocols out, to implement them. The European Union is asking you to submit a plan, which you have not prepared. What will you deliver? White pages? Neutralities? Cases? You are aware of the Commission's decision, but you have tabled nothing here today. Unfortunately, that's not all it takes. The most critical is that you are completely inconsistent with the question of protecting public health. A few days ago you were referring to the mass tests that every tourist would have to perform coming to our country seventy-two hours ago. What changed and you exceeded that commitment? What changed is that you hadn't talked to the experts. Here, indeed, there is a gap on the part of the European Union. It should have developed a common framework of measures and rules and not confined to recommendations. He blamed air transport only. Indeed. However, what did you do to cover this? You are announcing health protocols and the mandatory test for the audience of the youth of the New Democracy, in order to be evidently adept. That was your agony. You said health passport. Another blow. Every passenger from abroad to Greece should have received a health certificate within the last seventy-two hours. This on May 9th. A series of different locations. In fact, did you arrive yesterday to say - and really how did you think about it? - that a tourist in our country can't show any symptoms the six-seven days he's staying. No sense of seriousness. You come and blame SYRIZA, who with a sense of responsibility, not just re-established the ESS, which you had broken up all the previous years of your own governance, but who literally implemented and fully supported the instructions of the experts and experts. Micro-party Opposition, like your party, we didn't. However, you yourself come and confuse public opinion with changes, slipping, you create a sense of insecurity in the absence of serious planning. So for so long, you have been talking, without waiting for the EGE's announcements and decisions, the experts, and your only goal is to impress your party audiences. We have been clear from the first day. They don't need words of air, mistakes, or practices that only do damage. For us, tourism must always function first and foremost in terms of public health. Public health protection is therefore necessary and can only be provided if there is an operational, organisational and operational preparedness of the public system. Recognise any possible and suspected case, isolate and follow the procedure provided for by the experts. Molecular tests, quick testing tests, serious, reliable, massive, at each destination. Reinforcement of health units at each tourist destination. You haven't told us what the reference centers are, if there's adequacy with doctors, if there's a quick molecular test. So we need a plan that you do not have, as you do not have the health protocols. Minister, it is particularly interesting that the latent language tells the truth, as our angering people say. So yesterday, at your second reading of the bill, you probably missed it and said that each of the businessmen would make their decision whether to open up or not. This is the New Democracy plan to transfer all the weight, all the responsibility, to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to make them a zombie, as your ministers say. Your plan is as clear as the timetable for its implementation. But you have suffered, Mr Minister, and yet another word-in-law. In your attempt to convince us about the success of Greek tourism and how the image has changed abroad, you admitted that this result came as a fruit of the efforts of recent years. So let's remind you that SYRIZA has been a government in recent years, SYRIZA, who has accused you of not wanting tourists, while you know that we have brought a record of arrivals and investment, and we have also managed a series of very successful crises. And not over the last few weeks, as you have rushed to correct when you understood it. I also wonder why you are still constantly expressing the phrase that 'is a golden opportunity, perhaps the only one, to put an end to amateurism' when you are tabling a bill that only has amateurism. It's only immature. Incomplete provisions, incorrect provisions, anti-constitutional provisions, manipulation, fragmentation, a series of provisions of other ministries, which do not even take into account the Constitution at times, the spatial context. They don't take into account anything. And the ministers are not here to support it. So in the obvious situation of the pandemic's effects, what we were expecting was a framework law that will be able to support the small and medium-sized enterprise, to rescue Greek tourism, so that the entire Greek economy is not brought into recession. You had it, Minister, the opportunity to save thousands of businesses, save thousands of workers. You choose to be indifferent. As you have chosen to be indifferent to all improvements, additions, changes, highlights, anguish expressed by the institutions and by the Civic Opposition, in this very bad fast track process. It is obvious that you are not interested in realising either diving tourism, glaming, or everything you have brought. What you're interested in is to say you did it. You didn't do it right, though. You have therefore had the opportunity to incorporate arrangements for effective support from the industry. You didn't do that either. You are bringing in a bill, which is, in essence, a very rough quotation of different provisions. In a rough manner you regulate diving tourism, without sufficient documentation environmentally. This is a deficit throughout the bill. And, of course, you have no provision at all for those who serve tourism. Don't tell us that these questions were answered by the Prime Minister yesterday. You'll only be mocking yourself and no one else. Because the anxiety of tourist operators is expressed two days in a row. There is absolutely no satisfaction with the measures. Anxiety exists, pessimism and desperation. You also submit a bill where you yourself degrade the role of the Ministry. Unprecedented! The Minister himself should give responsibility to his ministry - usually the opposite - at the GOID, at the hotel chamber, at the Marketing Greece. I imagine you would also see the conclusion of the independent authority in this regard. And we'll come back. You are putting forward a plan which contains some provisions to the limits of unconstitutionalism, whether it is about adding forest land to measure the conditions of construction, whether it is the law on the cavalry, or, above all, the violation of the archaeological law. We have told you many times these days that they will not be able to find implementation, and we are the ones who have given you the solutions. And you come here today and present some withdrawals of some provisions, but not the right ones. Because we have a very serious problem, not just us, the whole country, when you break the archaeological law, when you hand over archaeological sites to privatisation. It is obvious what you are trying to serve. It also raises questions why the Ministry brings serious spatial planning arrangements, without any fundamental reference to its spatial tourism, what you are committed to bringing by the end of the year. But you don't even include it in a report. Where's your plan? It is clear that we all want investments, healthy investments, strategic investments, serious investments that will be guaranteed and the dynamic relaunching of Greek tourism. However, these should be done with an environmental mark. Because only then can there be genuine levers of fair and sustainable development. This is not only what the coronary has confirmed, but climate change and a series of crises that we have experienced in previous years. It's obvious that travelers' preferences are also changing. They turn to quality, which you ignore, institutionalizing glaming. We are therefore in favour of these regulations that facilitate business activity. That is why we have tabled proposals. You are obviously in favour of an anarchist design, which is all it does is repeat distortions of the past constantly and hand over the public space to the hands of specific business interests. Let us not forget, however, that the draft law tabled should concern mainly the framework for divestment tourism. Ten months at the Ministry you were unable to take off a KHS for a series of thematic forms of tourism that the country needs, which Greek tourism needs as levers. And you only bring one and one with so much carelessness that it will not be possible to apply. Because divestment tourism is a highly quality tourism sector. It attracts and attracts people with respect to the environment, who spend too much money and spend long distances to enjoy the seabed, could also our country. But you have made mistakes between the bill and the explanatory statement. We would therefore expect you to present a plan that brings about the possibility of exploiting the rich biodiversity of the place. You are not even in line with the European Treaties and proposals on dumping. So let's go. Diving tourism is saying you're bringing something new. It's not a primary text. You are baptising new updates to Law 3409/2005. Already from the definition of the purpose of diving tourism you omit the provision for health protection and care of divers. As a minimum, you should have requested and presented by the Ministry of Health an operational plan to deal with occurrences of divers. It also, in your view, is the self-propelled, who is often the one discovering and the shipwrecks, to pay in order to be able to dive into the given provider you prefer. Your scary slip is that you keep the provision of Article 13 by amending previous provisions on diving parks. Not only do you abolish the ban on the establishment of diving parks less than three nautical miles from a preached place, but you are still going further. Allows the inclusion of a preached merchandise and archaeological site in the diving park itself. The diving park will therefore manage the archaeological site. Why didn't you withdraw these provisions? You know very well that it is completely contrary to and violating the archaeological law, according to which ancient and new monuments that already belong to ownership and prefecture of the public are being placed out of the scope of trade, which are becoming intolerable and here is a serious issue of unconstitutionalism. You have not abolished these provisions and it is clear that they have not been misled. For we mentioned three specific points: Article 6(13), Article 13(12), last subparagraph and paragraph 6, the last three subparagraphs. After so much discussion, after so much reaction to the intention of appealing to the Skopje. and perfectly fair, you do not withdraw them. So, obviously, it's not by mistake. There is no connection to dumping with the Barcelona Protocol or with the Naples guidelines. It raises concerns that under the sign of diving recreational tourism a number of amendments are included without reference to spatial planning. I'm getting over it. Tourist ports. Insert settings and come again to downgrade the role of the Ministry. You are giving the Ministry's authority to TIPED, while you know that three presidential decrees on Pylos, Alimos, Chios marinas were issued as quickly as possible by SYRIZA government. The day before yesterday, you passed the law an abortion on the environment and you come and you change it today. How do you submit regulations, as - if possible - the integration of neighbouring forest areas in order to take into account building factors? Under what law and what design do you deposit them? You will tell me you have come to abolish free competition by giving all the visibility to the promotion of the country to one and only the particular private company, by means of a coronary. That was your only concern and that is the only measure you have taken for Greek tourism. And while the tourist world is gone, you bring a new type of accommodation - and rightly so - glaming, which you are undermining as soon as you institutionalize it. Can you bring a new tourist product without any functional and technical specification, except vague references to quality criteria? We told you it should be at least four stars. And you allow the worst, you allow the provisional authorisation to use a glaming mark without any functional and technical specifications, since you have not prepared them yet, for a five-year period. You legislate exactly? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] As far as granting simple use to the saints is concerned, you take advantage of the pandemic to pass whatever is of interest to you. There's no specific reference to your plan. You're making permanent arrangements. You haven't changed it yet. On the pretext of pandemic, therefore, you open the ferry for the occupation of the public space. The pandemic, of course, for you usually justifies permanent arrangements covering your vision of the public space. For the health protocols to ask just one question, because we don't have time. Where are those health protocols? It's the same question we ask you three days now. Who's giving it to you? Where's he gonna give them? Who's gonna control? Who will be the certification body. Where will the workers be trained and how will they be trained? Who's going to cover the cost? I will conclude, Mr Minister, by judging all the provisions you bring below the circumstances and needs of Greek tourism. And we do it with regret, because Greek tourism is the soul of Greece, it is the heart of Greece and it is also the heavy industry of the country. You, too, are completely indifferent. You are losing an opportunity of good and effective legislature in order to serve very few and specific ones. You don't care about the next day of Greek tourism. You prefer to go to well-written or miserable, as it turns out, show. The operators and the world of tourism, however, have been disappointed because you have left them unprotected. Minister, Greek tourism has deep and very strong roots. Whether you help him or you don't care, he'll recover, he'll reboot, he'll make it. But he'll remember you left him helpless.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much Mrs Notopoulou. Mr. George Francis, special speaker of the Change Movement, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that humanity and the whole planet have entered uncharted waters in recent months. Governments around the world have served in a race to manage an unprecedented situation. As a country, we must admit that we have gone well in the health crisis. We were lucky not to experience other neighbouring countries, such as Italy, Spain, France and Britain. We had the time to prepare. We have also shown that as citizens we have been consistent and responsible. The next bet is to overthrow economic and social deregulation, avoid any economic pandemic. Economic and employment are the main problems of the next day. If we do not manage, there is a risk that a crisis will end up before it, the previous one that we have lived for many years. Since the government has recently engaged in a communication game with successive pre-notifications of measures to relaunch economic activity, it has had to announce with delay measures to support tourism and work. They are measures that have moved in the philosophy of the long programme of the Change Movement to tackle the social and economic crisis. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need obsessed or populism. We need vigilance, responsibility, so that we can meet the needs of the times for tourism. Unfortunately, however, the measures are inadequate and untreated. The programme provides for subsidisation of work linked, however, to a reduction in pay and flexible forms of employment. Let me remind you that our proposal involved subsidising the wages of workers in firms affected by 40% for six months. The reduction in tax advances is referred for July, but the percentage is not determined. The loans to enterprises are based on the goodwill of the banks, but they do not appear willing to lend, often by making it impossible, for most companies, conditions such as banking information. From the decree of the Prime Minister and the announcements of the Minister of Tourism on the relaunch of the tourism sector, that is, the engine of our economy, there is no complete and complete plan. The absence of significant measures, such as the abolition of the night's charge, the reduction of landing fees, the dynamic strengthening of domestic tourism, the reintroduction of reduced VAT rates on the islands, the digitisation of workers, and the establishment of agreements with countries that we expect to see tourism, demonstrate that the government has not studied properly to strengthen tourism 2020. Our aim is supposed to be to create the safe destination picture for our country. How will this happen when we are currently leading to free, uncontrolled entry of tourists with only sample checks, which we do not even know how they will be carried out? It's obvious that the government's plan is getting stuck. Health protocols are a prerequisite for the reopening of tourist businesses. The fact that you have not made them public so far is confusing to professionals, but also to visitors. In a few days' time, business will not open and they still do not know how to function and how to welcome their visitors. The protocols also require the provision of training for both entrepreneurs and employees and visitors. When is this going to happen? It has been announced that in each accommodation a co-sponsor will be appointed. But, as you know, tourism in our country is mainly based on small tourist units. Will the doctor's cost be called to cover each tourist unit? And what about tourist destinations that do not have medical staff? We in the Change Movement tabled on 4 May - first of all the parties - a national plan to exit tourism from the crisis. We will continue to put forward positive proposals to save our tourism, hoping that we will once find a wish from the government for the benefit of society and the economy. As far as the bill is concerned, it would be no exaggeration to say that it actually includes a mini-legislative bill of responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. It contains provisions to amend urban and environmental legislation, to cover forestry and rural areas, to the Aegean Sea and to the beach. It approves environmental interventions, in sensitive and protected areas, but without the absence of quality standards leading to significant risks to ecosystems and undermines the local nature of the various regions. As I pointed out in the debate in committee, this bill is not an integrated approach to diving tourism. This form of thematic tourism can be a particularly important source of revenue for our country's tourism industry. It attracts visitors to increased financial capacity and can create many jobs. It offers enormous potential for growth. Its definition within the bill is incomplete as its meaning should not be limited to submarine tour, but extends to other diving activities such as exhibition spaces, diving facilities on land, diving training activities and much more. We made concrete proposals during the drafting of committees. We have proposed, instead of a Diving Tourism Council, that a divestment monitoring committee should be set up with the participation of local government. We pointed out that in its composition a diving service provider is involved, but without specifying the criteria for selecting the provider. We pointed out that for the single archaeological sites the IRS must have the first reason for keeping, operating and maintaining them. Storage must be mandatory and specify how the archaic antiquities will be kept and the penalty framework for an infringing provider or a member of his staff for an archaic or deliberate destruction of ancients. We have referred to the justified reactions caused by the ban on shipwreck visits, without accompanying providers, by amateur sailors, when many of them have been discovered by themselves. We pointed out that the arbitrary fall of objects on the Greek seabeds without an environmental study and marine spatial planning can lead to waste accumulation and degradation of the marine ecosystem. Similarly, the use of construction materials and artificial structures that are toxic or non-friendly to the marine environment creates a problem. In relation to diving parks, if the diving park manager can be a natural person, how can they include archaeological sites, even non-visitable? How is it ensured to guard the ancient antiquities and in this case? It is also necessary to ensure respect for local fishing communities and to monitor environmental impacts. In the articles on Integrated Tourism Development Areas, there are issues such as the definition of a protection zone around the boundaries of RITs that operate for the benefit of large tourist investment and at the expense of another private property that raises issues and unconstitutionality. The secondment of a part or part of an already characterised and approved WORD constitutes a retrospective partition of the demarcated area, which cancels the design and alters the purpose for which it has been approved. They should also not overthrow local spatial planning so that they do not adversely affect the local nature of the area. The RIAD is a public limited company and cannot function as a planning authority for tourist ports, which, as complex tourist facilities, may include land areas with buildings, port facilities on the beach and on the seaside, i.e. public property. The Minister said at first that Article 31 was withdrawn. We sincerely hope for a clear improvement in its return. Let me say, however, that it is not possible for public forests and forest land to be counted for the excellence of a field or golf courses with facilities whose species is not clearly defined. Reforestation obligation restriction is not beneficial to the environment. As a political area, we support balanced tourist development over time with quality characteristics, however. Our concern is to upgrade the tourist product. In this direction, neither is the increase in the area of the mere use of seaside and seaside, nor is the full freedom to cover coastlines in adjacent public area hotels and complex tourist accommodations. These lead to extensions without quality standards and to restrictions on the public's free access, likewise interventions without quality standards in tourist ports and boats, as took place in Kalamata. Legislative improvement in the article setting out the time period for the obligation to hire a seafarer to recruit requires recasting. Finally, the provision for the ambassador of Greek tourism is contradictory. It is necessary to clarify the type of cooperation with the Minister of Tourism, as well as the benefits referred to in the article when the post is unpaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, too, for keeping time. The reason is the special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government with the Prime Minister's announcements and the positions of the ministers attempts to blackmail workers, as the SYRIZA Government did, for new sacrifices, to put unreservedly back on the ground in order to save what is being saved from the mobs and the profits of the big bidders, the tour operators, the airlines and shipping companies. They are the maids, waiters, receptionists, cooks and assistant cooks who spit blood from morning to night with exhausting hours. It is those who get the ambulances to pick them up from exhaustive work, who experience fear and terrorism by the boss and the employer. They are the self-employed, the family small and medium-sized tourists, who are crushed in front of the sizes of the tourism industry and are permanently targeted by governments. And the government has the courage to call on them to have three memorandums and thousands of implementing laws that remain in force at the moment, in fact, added to the recent anti-government acts of legislation with the pretext of the coronary and will be added even more over the next period. In practice, it calls on them to adapt and discipline to the new provocative requirements of the business groups of tourism for new privileges, fluid with the scoop, as indicated by the Commission, the BSE and SETE. One wonders: Where is this tourist miracle, the millions of chartered tourists and cruise ships, where are the billions of euros that broke into the crisis, which was the golden age for them? They invested them to expand business activities in the four and five best hotels, while they bought other ones. They enjoy the favourable regulations of the public with tax exemptions and the exemptions, new provocative incentives provided by the development law, a fatal EUR million for free tourist promotion by ministries, regional resources and municipalities, from Community funding. The list of privileges and facilities is innumerable. So this tourist miracle is a wound to the workers. It was based on fourteen different forms of work jungle, intensified work, humiliating wages, non-existence of collective agreements or, at best, on contracts that covered only 10% of the employees in tourism and now the groups are crying and blackmailing, they want more. The Government is willing to satisfy them with new obese liquidity, with the upgrading of the Greek Development Bank to support large-capitalisation operations with EUR 7 billion in 2020 from the Business Guarantee Fund, with the government guaranteeing them up to 80% of the loans, while self-employed and professionals will continue to sink on debts. This is what the Minister of Tourism said yesterday that the government supports competitiveness and the strategic goals of tourism and that a strategic target for a central state, regions and private sector will be united in this common objective. And while the government gives its change, SYRIZA in a rabbit role found the support measures of groups insufficient. You're fighting with each other by giving tests to the big chapter about who's more capable of serving it. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is from what point of view each one of us is: from the point of view of workers, their interests, or from the point of view of business groups? Both winners cannot be both workers and business groups. The JRC - we say it clearly - is on the side of the work, the self-employed, the vast majority of the people. The great gatherings of workers in Crete are hopeful. We welcome those in progress today in Rhodes, Athens, Thessaloniki on 28 May, Corfu, Patras, Lasithi, all over the country. And, of course, these games will escalate in June. Workers are proud to resist claiming their right, not beating their heads, not disciplined, not pinching in the government's account to get the snake out of the hole. The JRC strongly supports workers' requests for protection with all wage, labour and other rights, as well as the protection of self-employed, family, small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism sector with tax exemptions and debt relief and a number of issues such as PPC accounts, to keep their accommodations, shops. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Government unambiguously promotes a whole series of tourist activities, facilitating business groups to invest in this area through fast track licensing procedures. Following the maritime plots granted over time by SYRIZA and now New Democracy in the international energy monopolies for hydrocarbons, they now grant sea plots to the major tourism groups. They provide by way of summary procedures the use of hayaloo and beach for business by providing simple supporting documents, as provided for in a provision of the development law which was withdrawn as a result of the intense reactions. They also bear the last restrictions on diving sites and open the road to diving parks. Areas prohibited so far are being granted to business groups and to various non-governmental tourism organisations, in the form of concessions, the duration of which will be for twenty years - first it was ten - with the possibility of renewing for another ten years - was at five - with a grace period of one year from the lease concession. And the price is extremely challenging. Insular complexes, lakes, rivers, caves, sea areas, sanctuary, shores, archaeological sites, protected sensitive marine ecosystems and areas located in the NATURA 2000 network shall be delivered. Among them they have seen the light of publicity in islands critically, historically, such as Gyros, Macronisos, Gadus, Spinalonga, Gramvousa, Gold. It is well known that the NGO is involved in the "Global Nature Fund". It provides for the bill, in addition, a joint ministerial decision on the basis of which it is possible for the sea area together with the respective bottom to be identified as a dive park. I mean, he fits it all. There are serious questions that arise with several provisions of the bill that look like photographics, such as shipwrecks of ships and aircraft with archaeological significance, such as the Shipwreck of Antikythera and Zakynthos, which, by decision of the Ministry of Culture since 2003, have been characterised as cultural goods, and that is where recreation diving is not allowed until now. And for all these plans you have not even received the opinion of the scientific bodies like the PPE. You have ignored proposals and highlights of archaeologists. You are putting marine research purposes at risk and the protection of archaeological archaeological sites. You are endangering ancient and visitors by abolishing the obligation to escort visitors from archaeologists in these archaeological sites. They will only be allowed by escorting authorised divestment service providers, i.e. by individuals. Excessive administrative bans on filling oxygen bottles on board vessels are also abolished. Significant productive activities will be limited, such as coastal fishing for the development of divestment tourism. In some cases it will be presented as a substitute. The state will no longer have full control of marine areas and water resources. Management bodies set up for diving parks will be the tool to be gradually allocated to business groups. This urban state assumes a role of regulator not only for the establishment of councils and bodies to promote divestment tourism on behalf of monopolies, development of plans for coordination and promotion, but also provides financial incentives, new tax reliefs for investors against the state budget as analysed in the Special Report, such as expenditure on the development and promotion of divestment tourism, subjecting investment expenditure to nine-hole golf courses to the incentives of development legislation, subsidising the establishment and operation of divestments, expropriation of roads for their integration into the areas of integrated tourist development, exemption from donation tax for the placement, authorisation, construction and operation of divestment parks and artificial marine attractions, deduction of such expenditure from gross revenues from natural and legal persons, as the report says will be replaced by other sources of State budget revenue. From what, anyway? All the above arrangements are accompanied by other developmental activities, as you say. They are linked to the change in the existing framework of integrated tourism development areas, which extend with new privileges, to the new planning system of spatial law, of Law 4447/2016, as well as to the legislation of the tourist ports and the urban planning plan governing tourist facilities, in order to be more flexible and without prejudice to the introduction of business action in those areas. In other words, overthrow! All are rings of a chain to make it easier for groups to adapt their business form. Tourism ports, seaside zones and shelters are granted to a business operation. Secondly, marinas are legalised in archaeological sites, historical sites, traditional settlements, in the coastal zone of Attica from the Faliikos Delta to Koropi by means of a presidential decree, which we know how they are and exactly what they include. Thirdly, it proclaims the GOI as a planning authority for management by opening the way to programming contracts with business groups to privatise the state land, i.e. the property of the people. In addition, it will be possible to intervene in public forests, public forests and public land for the creation of ski resorts, facilities for the use of thermal sources, hydrotherapies, sea-basin centres and hotel accommodation in category four and five stars, as well as for the creation of golf courses. Fourthly, development incentives are being promoted to create nine holes of golf, for which huge amounts of water are required, with the people not only gaining absolutely nothing, but there will also be serious shortcomings in the provision of settlements and will be called upon to pay for it by generalising the reward fees. Fifthly, each allowable forest intervention provides for the calculation of consideration and afforestation obligation by the investor. This is maximum mockery and hypocrisy. Not more than 60 euros a tree, if big, with the average price almost zero. These provisions will complement the recent environmental legislation. Sixth, import Glamping, which is a luxury accommodation area in nature. Glumping brand, awarded by the Ministry of Tourism, is being introduced, opening the way to control the tourism excellence by large groups that will have the specifications. Seventhly, the role and presence of a lifeguard in tourist accommodations above fifty beds with a swimming pool of 49.5 square meters is further degraded. No positive forecast regarding the obligation to present a lifeguard. Eighth, the tourist ambassadors are being introduced. They are also assigned to the business groups of the already degraded National Tourism Organisation under the responsibility of the governments of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. In this way, the role of MARKETING GREECE and SETE as the main lever of our country's tourist promotion with the financing of the Greek State and with direct awards for the promotion of tourism. Ninth, issues relating to EKT's competence of the Ministry of Tourism and ASE for rules of operation, students' import, implementation of a practice and others are referred to regulatory acts on the basis of CSR to be adopted. The JRC has highlighted the status of empowerment of tourist businessmen towards students and apprentices in schools. And the most characteristic example is the torture of the nineteen-year-old apprentice in Corfu. With a bill, therefore, many objectives at the same time, land and water to investors at the expense of the environment, natural wealth, culture through their commercialisation. All these activities, therefore, have the orientation of attracting tourists with great income, luxury tourism. Yesterday the Minister directly admitted that tourism is a product, namely money, it brings profits, which is why there is no guidance - it says - on internal tourism or rather there was no orientation for internal social tourism. Of course, because it is not in the interest, it does not bring currency, he told us himself. Now, of course, because of the crisis - let me the phrase - which has been tightened up by the ass, uh, let us also see internal tourism, throw any crumbs with any package of internal tourism and see what and how many it will be about. The JRC, ladies and gentlemen, is placed in this bill, as in all, on the basis of whom it comes to serve. We reject this development because it serves the few. The recreation you see as a merchandise sold and purchased. The dimension of the concept of'recreational and rest' for you is rejected. For the JRC work for all, free time, organised social tourism, elimination of anarchy in production can only be ensured if capitalist property becomes social if capitalist profit is eliminated. That is why we have absolutely no illusion. In this context, it will be possible to ensure continuous tourism traffic for the people's needs all year round, winter and summer months, taking advantage of all forms of tourism. That is why the JRC not only rejects the exploitation of all forms of tourism, the exploitation of the natural wealth and all the advantages of our country in relation to others, but also considers that they can be put to the service of the people, but also with other forms of development, with the sole aim of satisfying the need and the right of workers to recreation, the safeguarding of workers in the sector with stable work and wages, the needs of the people's family for the education of children, a free public health and welfare system, stable universal social security, anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-nuclear shield of the country as a precondition for protecting the life of the people, issues that have never been demonstrated, as has been demonstrated, and the tragic deficiencies in hospitals, in the workplaces, but also the major disasters that we experienced in Matty, Mandra, Attica and elsewhere. Only in conditions of labour-population power with socialised means of production, which are part of the central planning and planning of the economy, and in conjunction with the development of all other sectors of the economy, industry, agri-foodstuffs, fisheries, with strict labour control and a criterion to cover ever-increasing popular needs, can we lead to growth on behalf of the many. So the workers' struggle for the moment is a reserve for total liberalisation from the dictatorship of monopolies. For all the above reasons, the JRC is voting against the draft law. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Synchronous. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to understand that what we should be interested in today is the rescue of our tourist season, so priority should be given to this issue with a bill on the measures to be taken. As usual, however, the government underestimates the relevant committees and Parliament by deciding on its own in due course, apparently because it thinks it is best to know it. It therefore preferred to bring to control and vote a draft law aimed at differentiating the Greek tourist product, at least as it sees it, but it is certainly not the right time. In particular, according to our information from hotels, a 70% drop is expected. Among other things, since the government was too late to schedule their opening, they do not have enough time for preparation and for detention to actually start their activities on 15 June, as announced. If that happens, then Greece will lose more than EUR 12 billion directly and EUR 24 billion directly and indirectly from tourism alone, sinking into a recession of only 15% of tourism. Therefore, public revenues of more than EUR 6.5 billion will be lost. Is this really foreseen, or is the Prime Minister announcing measures without knowing the loss of revenue and how they will be covered? We will not talk about the rest of the horrifying scenario for the formation of the government debt deficit and so forth if this scenario actually occurs. If the government is counting on the provision of money rather than loans from the European Union to replace the loss of GDP by consumption, we are very afraid that it will be disappointed. But let us not be mistresses, waiting for real developments, because Greece really has the potential and could make it much better. Continuing, we said that our country this year has a great competitive advantage over Italy, Spain and Turkey, since the cases here are much lower and are already retreating into all the Balkans. We also mentioned that we have a great opportunity to change the failed business model of cheap tourism that is repellent from foreign tourism and above all from the German 'TUI' as it is known to us all. This opportunity stems from our ability to sell 2020 health insurance, noting that what we should be interested in is not tourist arrivals, but revenues, such as for every business, is not the turnover, but the profit. In this regard, we must reduce the offer to the detriment of arrivals by increasing prices for the benefit of revenue. Besides, Greece is not suitable for mass tourism, but for selected, with more expensive prices and high-level services. So we must treat it as a boutique, which we must adopt in the food sector too, since climate and other conditions in our country allow for the cultivation of high-quality products. If we now coordinate Greek production properly, giving similar incentives to hotels in Greece, we will no longer consume over 80% of our tourist revenues on imports, but much less, with a view to 25% of Italy. As far as the bill is concerned, we stressed in the first committee that Greece's great problem is the average expenditure per tourist, which from 745 euros in 2005 was reduced to 470 euros in 2016, having increased slightly since 2019, but only at 564 euros. For comparison, at the same time in Turkey the average expenditure in 2019 was 666 dollars, with revenues of 34.6 billion dollars and forty-five million tourists. So there is a lot we need to do better, especially in terms of average expenditure. Furthermore, we are also in favour of the diversification of our tourist model through new products and an increase in average expenditure, as shown clearly by our programme. However, the bill deals only with sea tourism, diving, with only one provision for pleasure boats, as well as ecological tourism, with glaming, while in part with health tourism, winter mountains and sports, golf. There are many other types of tourism to which the bill should be referred, since they have much better prospects, such as cultural tourism, where as a country we have very large competitive advantages, educational tourism which would also be significantly enhanced by our counterparts, rural tourism which would help to increase food exports and medical tourism that has a very great potential. That's just some of what's there. In Part One of the bill, measures are now adopted to develop dive tourism, such as dive board, dive parks and ways of accessing them, in shipwrecks, as well as in archaeological sites. The second part lists provisions for the Integrated Tourism Development Areas, which are called, as regards segregation and town planning, for tourist facilities in general, which we believe are about the development of luxurious dwellings and hotels in the Spanish model, which has certainly failed. But, as usual, we copy something too late when it has already passed and when it has failed. It also refers to tourist ports, in relation to the creation of porting places for pleasure boats. In addition, it facilitates the creation of tourist facilities in forestry and rural areas, as regards accommodation, skiing and golf courses that are also part of the incentives of development law. The third part introduces the concept of luxurious accommodation to nature called very beautiful glaming, because it is a kind of luxury camping usually in remote areas. Finally, the fourth part contains various provisions, such as for the exploitation of aegeans, for the operation of pools, for the establishment of an EOT for promotion actions, as well as for the schools of tourist professions. Starting from the first part of the divestment tourism, it is relatively limited in terms of revenues and is more determined by the purchase of equipment. For example, many equipment vendors promote travel to use their customers. The value of the diving equipment market is about 250 million dollars in the United States and so much in the rest of the planet. According to the United States' Diving Equipment and Marketing Organisation, the dive market offers its GDP of 11 billion dollars, while increasing annually at a growth rate of 9%. These are therefore small sizes, although we do not have anything against them, and we have proposed that the equipment be produced in Greece at least. We also suggested supporting the production of glass-based submarine monitoring vessels on the bottom, which could help our shipbuilding industry by creating serious jobs. The second part promotes provisions relating to RITs, while we believe that there is only one RIT in Greece today in the Costa Navarino region in Messinia. So we do not know whether the provision relates to this unit, knowing that investment is already in progress in country houses, without of course being considered negative. In addition, the bill provides for the disposal of forest land for golf under Article 32, as well as for the incentives of the Development Law for the construction of nine holes in Article 34. The total market size of golf tourism is estimated between $15 billion and $19 billion worldwide, with an annual growth rate of 11%. This sector of the tourism market is of a high income level, of course desirable for Greece. However, there is a need for particular attention to be paid to the high consumption of water, which is estimated at 10,000 to 15,000 cubic metres per hectare per year. It is very important for Greece, since it is foreseen that we will not have enough water too soon for our agriculture. At the same time, golf courses interfere in ecosystems. So we also need to pay attention to environmental rules. As far as forest areas are concerned, where golf courses are planned, we have proposed that they be integrated into integrated sustainable development systems together with the primary sector, such as the example of Costa Navarino, which is indeed happening. Finally, we said that the nine holes are not as popular as the normal size of the eighteen holes, and it is important for the attraction of players that there are many lands nearby, which is likely to happen in Greece. That's why golf is not going well in Greece. Continuing, at the disposal of forest land for skiing facilities in Article 32, we doubt their logic, because Greece is not renowned for this form of sport. We have to note here in general that skiing is threatened by warmer winters because of climate change or as one wants to call it. So it may not be appropriate to develop forms of tourism that will in future require further support. Already there are several units operating in artificial snow, which we do not know if it is sustainable, as well as energy and economical. Furthermore, the second part promotes provisions for tourist ports, such as Article 23 for their creation and Article 27 for temporary anchorages - pleasure boats in tourist facilities. This is a pressing need for the Greek tourist product, as long as it is done with the right standards. In this respect, there are considerable potential for growth, since Greece has a very large coastline, an incredible natural beauty and a huge maritime tradition, as well as a shipbuilding repair industry - a craft industry that can create many and decent jobs, contrary to tourism that is happening exactly the opposite. That is why we say that tourism is in no way industry. In this context, the provisions of the bill for an increase in the port area, even with temporary construction, are very positive. We are also in favour of the development of ports and small islands, since this supports our economy, as well as our national sovereignty, while we have proposed that we operate rock islands with farms and livestock units. In the third part, in glaming, we have the view that it is not a permanent thing, but a fashion, especially a peculiarity of the rich Americans. However, it is only estimated at $2.7 billion, and it is assumed that it will reach $ 4.6 billion by 2026. So this is a very small market, and alternatively we have proposed to promote housing in deserted villages, so that there is movement in combination with rural tourism or ecological tourism. The latter includes provisions relating to the concession of a hayaloo, where the extent of the concession is increased to private interests from two hundred square meters to five hundred square meters, while the percentage that remains free from 60% to 50% is reduced. In particular, it was not taken into account during the drafting of that provision that, in accordance with its founding law, the GOI is solely intended to use public assets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why, when we analysed in detail the articles, we were not mentioned below, but only in that, Article 26 for the SWEDEN which we regard as unconstitutional. As we have said, HICP is not a body of the central government or the general government. Therefore, the GOI is not allowed to provide a subsidiary of the Supreme Council which belongs to foreigners to exercise public authority and is a planning authority for tourist ports, even for tourist ports that have arrived at the SGEI for recovery. We'll close with our next conclusion. The development of dive tourism in Greece is very important, because according to international experience it is a popular and highly profitable activity. Along with the possibility of diving in modern shipwrecks, the creation of visited archaeological sites and artificial submarine attractions is initially a positive direction to this draft law. Of course, no account has been taken of the needs and rights of independent self-suppliers, which we have analysed during the committees, and there is no respect for the freedom of citizens of those who are involved in diving to visit and enjoy free of charge the natural beauty of our country. Therefore, this fact is negative. In addition, the problem of the draft law lies both in the points of concession and exploitation of aegialos, beaches and others and in the exploitation of the NATURA regions. So it will probably lead to legal issues due to conflict with Union law. Furthermore, there is no guarantee of equal access for all citizens to the enjoyment and exploitation of the natural and cultural resources of the country, data that were probably not properly calculated by the relevant Ministry, as it is certain that there will be requests for the cancellation of citizens and bodies in the application of the present. Finally, the draft law introduces flexible penalties for archipelago-complaining offenders and destruction of ancients, as well as for capturing hayaloo, beach, etc., which we consider to be totally unacceptable. There are also issues of unconstitutionality from Article 26, as we mentioned, which gives additional powers to manage public wealth at TSED and from Article 43 that restricts the equal treatment and freedom of citizens, as regards the possibilities of uninterrupted access to sanctuary, beaches, banks and side-effects, and it will probably cause a very heavy burden on the environment. Therefore, we will only support the draft law in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. Taking advantage of this gap, I should like to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, responsible for self-government, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking briefly to support the amendment tabled by the Ministry of the Interior concerning the possibility of extending bank holidays to public public places where the catering shops are concerned, against self-government. I think we will all agree, as there are serious economic consequences of the coronary pandemic. We must do everything in order to support workers' jobs and professional activity, particularly in areas such as the focus area, which are tens of thousands of businesses and professionals and hundreds of thousands of workers, businesses and services directly linked to the provision of tourist services which are, anyway, a major sector in the Greek economy. To this end, two weeks ago, a series of preparations have been made in cooperation with the CEDEFOP, in cooperation with the Development Ministry, with the full support of the Prime Minister, who chaired the relevant teleconferencing and in cooperation with the industry's professional bodies, and we have tabled this amendment, which I believe is - I hope - universal acceptance. It gives the opportunity to even double the countryside that they can understand with bank seats companies, shops that are licensed or even tripled if they are going to keep the number that their licence contains for bank seats, following the application of the security measures that the committee of special infectiousists has proposed and which the government has decided on safety grounds to respect throughout the country. It is clarified and I call on the local authorities to apply this wherever possible, because this is the way to ensure and contribute to the turnover of companies and therefore to the maintenance of jobs, which is the major concern we are interested in and the provision of quality services. Where this is not possible, the amendment allows municipal fees to be reduced by up to 50%. Since we are unable to increase the turnover in this case, at least it reduces the costs of businesses and enable them to function. Those who are in society and in the market are aware of the enormous difficulties the industry has in the whole time. The government has announced a number of other economic and tax measures, but the amendment I consider to be very important. I would like to make it clear that we have asked self-government to implement this measure effectively, but at the same time in a socially balanced, responsible and secure way, in order to maintain the gaps in the corridors, at least one and a half metres for the pedestrians. Under no circumstances will there be any problem with reading for people with disabilities and there is no problem with the existing paths for people with enormous problems with their eyesight, our fellow citizens who are blind. We must all together, as we have achieved with unity, solidarity and discipline, deal with the health part of the crisis in the previous period, do all we can, be united and show solidarity in implementing this amendment, so that it is done in the best possible way and that we have the best possible results. Finally, I would like to make it clear that this is a possibility for self-government and local communities and it is not imposed in a uniform and compulsory way by the centre, because it would be unreasonable and unreserved to do so in a single way by a decision by the centre of Athens, by Parliament and by the Syntagma Square. We trust the local authorities, we trust the mayors, we trust the services of local government, we trust the local communities that they will implement this measure in the best possible way, otherwise a decision from the centre of Athens could involve too many arbitrariness. With this legislation we allow the Government to make the best decisions at local level, which will be the most operational and effective. The duration is until 30 November. We also give the opportunity, when there is a proposal, to carry out an elementary study and to walk the roads, either throughout the day or for a certain period of time, in consultation and cooperation and in agreement with the local government and the police department concerned, so that the measure can be implemented. In short, we do everything we can to support self-government, to support the economy, to support jobs, and we are all called together, united, to implement this effort, with the best possible results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u170	Minister, it is not mentioned anywhere and I would like to ask you whether you intend to add the financial burden of local government to the amendment. That's the one question. In other words, you are giving the municipal council the right to reduce bank charges by 50%, but you do not give the municipality financial support for this. You might tell us that you're going to give emergency financial support. But since the exceptional financial support you have announced is too limited in relation to the real needs and the reduction of revenues to the municipalities, it is obviously an extra burden charged to the municipalities. Do you intend within the amendment to establish that these economic losses from the municipalities will be covered by the corresponding financial aid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much for the remark and for the proposal from the Honorary spokesman for the Civilian Representation, Mr Spirtzi. This government has proved in this crisis of the coronary pandemic that it supports with all its powers local government and municipalities and regions. You know, Mr Spirtzi, that we have already provided exceptional financial support to the municipalities and regions in order to meet their needs and in the quarantine days we have been able to prepare a giant project programme, under the name of Antonis Tritsis, which replaces the previous one that did not have funding to carry out 2,5 million euros in the next three and a half years. However, as far as the specific point to which you have referred is concerned, I would like to be very clear. We have prepared, as the Ministry of Interior, solutions concerning financial support for self-government. We are already giving EUR 75 million exceptional financial support to self-government, which is additional to the CFPs throughout the year, and we have secured a multiple amount, with which, if necessary, local government within the year we are spending will be supported by the central government in order to avoid the slightest problem. But the assessment I have of the first elements that have come to me is that ultimately the losses of revenue are much smaller - I repeat, so far - than we feared. It is likely that there will be reductions in revenue due to the reduction in municipal fees and the government is fully committed to fully meeting these needs with the money they will need in the time we spend, in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Criton Arsenis, the special speaker from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is impressive that both Mr Hatzidakis and Mrs Mendoni are still absent, but also the Minister of Tourism. Since he's the Interior Minister here, I want to ask him. Minister, don't you know anything about the request of mayor Mykonos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u175	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u176	I know your media and how you use it against political opponents. Don't worry. If you want to develop it, we can. But the theme of Mykonos, which is the particular thing I ask you, do you know that? Mayor Mykonos came here and told us very simply that there is a mistake that is currently ratified by this law. Apart from the absurdity of privatising the tourist port of Mykonos via TIPED, you accidentally provided the commercial, which obviously does not have the same value. But it was in the hands of HIAD, and the HIAD right now has it. And instead of taking it off on the occasion of this law and stopping this absurdity, you are enforcing it forever. As far as bank seats are concerned, what operators are asking for is very specific measures. It has not been made public as far as I know from the references I have made, the issue of the bank seats. What was raised is the reduction in VAT that actually went some way, the reduction in insurance contributions and a reintroduction capital - that is what these people need at the moment - so that what you advertise 'whoever withstands opens up' does not apply. I wonder whether you, in the banking process, are finally confronting the citizens who will claim the public space so that they too can have a meeting place safely, that is to say, a public space open to those who are rightly complaining about the crisis and all your measures, especially those that are not taken. So two civilians, two teams protesting them into a conflict of interest between them, and I think that's no accident. I'm really surprised the Minister of the Environment is missing here. I'll say it again and again. To be honest, the Minister for the Environment is hiding. The Minister for the Environment is at the moment, day after day he makes spots and gives money to explain the unjustified laws of the environment, to explain that he has not destroyed the environment, as society has accused him of, this Minister for the Environment is hiding from a law that changes his responsibilities in the marine environment, in terms of land planning and forests. Where's Mr. Hatzidakis? Where's Mrs. Mendoni? We're talking about a law that changes who manages and who has the proceeds from the archaeological sites, starting with the ferries. Where is the Minister of Tourism who is absent from the Chamber before the end of the speeches of the rapporteurs? Let's see why everyone's away. Dive parks. We now have the inclusion of arable spaces in the diving parks that are being declared. These diving parks are private. Some of them have revenues from this. And it's not the public money. What is happening is that we have for the first time the privatisation of the management of archaeological sites and that is unconstitutional. It was stressed by both the Hellenic Association of Archaeologists and the workers in the aerial antiquities, the few workers you have left. There is no measure that adequately manages these services. You're opening up these services a huge deal of work. But, of course, that is why you do not really give them control powers. Leave these spaces uncontrollable. I would remind you of the phrase that the Association of Greek Archaeologists and his representative and Mrs Koutsouba, on behalf of the workers, said: "It is like giving the management of Epidaurus to a addict." That's exactly what you're doing. As far as the provisions on enrichment of a marine landscape are concerned, this is really a scary innovation of yours, without authorisation, without any involvement, of having the opinions of the relevant bodies. THE CONTROL has denounced all of this, which is a state agency. We really invite you to listen once again to the operators and at least to put the concept of licensing in place. Will anyone go to a country where there is no mapping of the Poseidonian regions, where there is no mapping of the Tragana and other important areas of the marine environment, will any businessman go and start to hurt construction without environmental licensing? This is not only unconstitutional against Article 24, but it also violates European directives. Mr Minister, I do not know if you have read 'CATHMERINA' today. I don't know if you read "KATHMERINA" a few days ago. There are articles in "KATHMERINI", which are a purely-binding newspaper, saying that you are in fact depriving the citizens of access to beaches. Citizens will not in practice be able to access the beaches. And now comes Kathiemeni with a new article and says that instead of listening to criticism and withdrawing the article you are giving this right now to camping. Enlarge the beaches that will be managed exclusively from the text hotels and tours. For forests you have withdrew Article 31, but you continue to give the building that both the forestists and the WWF denounced. This decree is obviously based on the 2014 Act. But you instead of abolishing this law that allows for interference in forest lands for ski resorts, etc., you bring us structure for golf routes. Minister, you said yesterday in your speech that you were giving the right to build for the golfers' locker room. You withdrew Article 31, but to serve the creation of golf courses you allow building infrastructures. What building infrastructure do golf courses need? The journeys that connect one golf to the other, what building infrastructure may be needed? We're going to do locker room in the hallways and their passageways? In fact, you give such a huge percentage of building. Because the golf areas are huge - with the 2014 Destructive Law, again the Government of New Democracy, which unfortunately did not fall with the SYRIZA Government - 5 is hundreds of construction measures. It could also be building acres. You open up for these infrastructures on golf courses. Indeed, because it's quite impressive, and it seems to be a slap, to be honest, if there's no specific interest and it's not photographic, please very much withdraw it. Also came the landowners of the VETD and they tell you that your provisions for the RITs where you are fragmenting RITs, you change the owner of the RITs, these provisions are cancellation design and in fact are actually photographic provisions, construction aids. Tell us what the PDOs are in Greece? Apart from the "KOSTA NAVRIANO", where else there is NAVRIANO. And if so, is this a photographic device for "KOSTA NAVRIANO"? Tell us why there really remains a shadow across and in the same "KOSTA NAVRIANO". Should we know, did the "KOSTA NAVRIANO" ask you to do this provision or not? HIADE is, of course, a central issue in this otherwise tourist bill. You're turning it into a government tool. It acquires governmental responsibilities. A private institution now, unfortunately, manages our public property, but the government does not control it, acquires competence to plan tourist ports. So now we are going to privatize the government. And in the case of Mykonos in your speech yesterday, I heard you say that fine, may have been given by accident or by mistake, but it may not have been the commercial port because other commercial ports have been given. Although I am against all these ports which have been given and should not be privatised, you can understand that it is the major commercial ports and the port of Mykonos, which, despite the tourist movement, obviously has no special commercial value. However, it was accidentally given. Apparently the HICP will sell anything you give him. And the House will sell both the seats and everything. This does not mean that you must go ahead with something that is extreme even for your own measures, which are in favour of privatisation. Again I asked you from this Step and yesterday: if you want to do something innovative, bring accessibility everywhere to all the tourist infrastructures in Greece. That would, yes, be innovative. Do it. Be the archaeological sites, be the beaches, be all the tourist sites in Greece accessible by all people with disabilities. Otherwise, we invite you to withdraw this bill. It is unprecedentedly unconstitutional, handwritten and it really afflicts the decisions of the Council of State, the provisions of the Constitution and some points and the European directives. That's why he'll fall too easily. In order to serve specific people and businesses, it creates insecurity of investment throughout the tourism sector and does not in practice respond to the burning demands at the moment of small and medium-sized tourism enterprises. You destroy the chicken that makes the golden eggs and these are the environment, these are the archaeological sites, the management of which is privatized, and it is the spatial planning that is the science that protects these two. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u177	We too are grateful, Mr Arsenis, for the time being, and indeed for the above. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I'm very sad because before the captain speaks three, we verified. Yesterday we said that the law of the Ministry of Justice appears to be incomplete and incomplete and proved today to be. I will set an example for you to understand. We all saw the Vitriol attack that took place yesterday. Do you know that this action is a severely intended harm and not an attempt at homicide and will be punished by a flood? I told him yesterday, like I knew it. That woman who threw the Vitrioli into the woman who's going to deform her whole face, the automotive worker, she's going to go for a blow. You're making mistakes. That's why I told you we didn't vote for the bill you brought in. And it turned out within a day that we were right again. It didn't take much time, one day, the next day. Criminal treatment will be of a delinquency in a animal that I don't know what differences they might have had, but she threw a vitriol in the face of a woman, a woman in a woman. And she'll have a ten-month prison and it's over. Is that how you're gonna make a fair system? Is that how you're gonna make justice? That's not how it works. In the foot, unfortunately, you legislate. You must finally listen to us now and then so you don't make such mistakes. Let's go to the bill now, Minister. The title is heavy. I liked it. I don't know who thought of him, I guess you thought about him. It is a nice and communication character, as you are all communicating to the government very well, and that is why you deserve congratulations, but it is, unfortunately, the quintousity of communication. And I'll prove it to you with arguments. Minister, you know, I said it yesterday, I say it every day, we don't come here as a Greek solution to criticize because we want to rule, because we want to be remorse you. No, we will make a real criticism of arguments and prove to you what we are saying. You talk about specific forms of tourism and tourism development. Enter diving tourism. You dive? Ask someone here if she's diving. The honourable Member laughs, but the way you wrote it is a problem for the whole story. I don't know if you've ever dived in your life, but because you don't know what diving means, the consultants who did it to you, did it wrong. There's certain pathogens in this story and I'll explain to you soon. Golf courses, ski facilities and larger ones. Let me tell you something, my Minister. Some people say: 'Late slowly than never'. I disagree with that. You can't compete with either the Alps, France or Samoni. Clear things. Because they have their advantages. They have more snow, longer duration, they have infrastructure and they need huge investments to make this product genuinely competitive. But there are other products that do not have the others, Mr Minister. I will tell you what these are: Japanese baths, which others do not have, religious tourism that others do not have. So you have Mercedes competing with Zastava. It can't be done. So when we have Mercedes, and I told you specific things, and I will analyse you and the money we can take as a country, don't make Zastava compete with Mercedes. Put the Mercedes ahead, the primary material, which is specific, to compete with others who do not have this tourism. And I will tell you other examples. Viamatic heating tourism. ‘What is this?’ A lot of people will tell me. I'll tell you what it is. We've got seven hundred healing in Greece. The hundreds are working forty. We have also in Thermi, Mr. Famele. Listen to me, Thermi is twenty - thirty kilometers away from Thessaloniki. They belong to the Municipality of Thessaloniki instead of being part of the Municipality of Thermi. You've ruled fifty years and you and the other two. It's tragic. It's like saying Sounio has thermal baths and these belong to the Municipality of Athenians. Which country can they be? You tell me. We could have a profit of about EUR 3.5-4.5 billion from health tourism. We did an entire study, Minister. We should present it to you, if you please, because we work for you too, or for any Greek government that goes to do something good, since you don't work. We should give them to you, however, if there is to be growth. And here we need the PPPs, this is where you need to put the private sector because it can be cultural - archaeological tourism, religious - pilgrimage tourism. Tell me here which Orthodox Christian of Eastern Europe, my Minister, does not know Mount Athos, does not know the "Prayers of the Apostle Paul"? They started to do it, and they gave up. Monasteries, Meteora are a pole of tourist attraction. Since you have the primary comparative advantage, take advantage of it. So I say, don't put Zastava in front, put Mercedes. That's where we start. These proposals can also be put forward and implemented in real terms. I will not say about rural tourism, for which Mr Villards spoke, but I shall go to TEAD, Article 26. I have a lot to say. Let us leave the essentials of the bill on unconstitutionality. In any case, these are matters that can be resolved. I want to stick to our suggestions. The difference between the Greek Solution and the others is precisely that we will make proposals. And SYRIZA was here, suggestions we'd tell you. World turnover of 60 billion euros. I'm telling you. Greece has its advantage, which is that it is multiplier as sources of thermal baths, in sources, but the main thing is that the sources are more healing. Have you done a scientific study, Minister? Have you done it? You haven't. Neither you previous ones nor the next ones did it. Have you searched the medical sources throughout Greece? You did the new crime yourself. In Nea Apollonia Thessaloniki, which has thermal baths, Minister, you went and set me up the illegal immigrants at the hotel. You're laughing. It's really about laughing. The polo from which we could get some money you give it to some of the interrogators who came here and paid from over 500 euros, do their baths in the healing baths for free. I'm telling you a few things that really bother me not aesthetically, but literally about the economy. I was telling you about religious tourism. Tell me, the unharmed Englishman, the remnant who comes and drinks to Zakynthos and Kefalonia tons of alcohol we deserve as a country or the rich Bulgarian, Romanian, Russian, who will come to touch his money here for Orthodox tourism, why are most of them loyal? Take advantage of this fact. The honourable Member knows that the Russians are very orthodox, more orthodox than us. Communism has passed the test drive, and they have remained Orthodox. We communism haven't passed yet. A fake left went out. She's gone, too. But we forgot about Orthodoxy. Let us 'exploit' - I say it in introductory form - the profit from it. I go to Mount Athos and have accommodations outside Mount Athos "to laugh and cry and herrings together". There's nothing wrong with him. Nothing! The road sucks. How's the other guy coming? Make a pier over there, near Mount Athos, take the boats of the Russians and Bulgarians that come here, because there's a lot of money for people to raise money. Make the “Prayers of the Apostle Paul”. You know that all Christians, even Catholics, know this, how Apostle Paul began from Ephesus, went up and went to Kavala, Veria, Thessaloniki, Corinth. These are the “Prayers of the Apostle Paul”. It is not something that cannot be implemented. If Christians want it, let's give it to them, we can make money. I say so that we can understand the difference in our logic. Maybe I'm thinking this way because I'm a businessman - I'm sorry about that - to take advantage of every penny, every void, where we can get money as a state, as a state. I'm not telling you to do something about skiing. Christ and God bless you! Have you been to Samoni? I say it because I've gone too. Leave it, Minister. We're crying! You're going to Kaimaktsalan and there's nothing wrong with it. A lift and he works and when he pulls the gear and turn the mantle. I mean, unbelievable things. What are you going to do? Ski investment? It can't be done. A lot of money! So let's go to the rest that don't need money, that doesn't need much investment, or big public spending, the self-evident things we tell you. I'm going to say something about 'Aegean' now. Mr. Vassilis is a monopoly company. He was consuming, winning, winning. And he's fine, he's an entrepreneur. As soon as the troubles have arrived, "give me help," he says. You will also tell me ‘LUFTHANSA’ has asked. You're right. But there, what did the state say? "Participations I want to give money." Get the shares from King. 30%? 40%? Get in as PPP, one condition: Buy out. What does that mean? That he'll pay the money back and with interest. And if you see that history wins, you stay there to make a profit. I'm telling you the simplest things. It's not hard to do. If you think it's hard to do, you probably don't know about business. My late colleague knows business. Give him the right to buy out, buy, if he wants, but with interest, as we do to the taxier. "I will pay you, sir, the money, I will keep your business, but if you want to buy your shares back, buy out again." He's right. You don't forbid him. I told the Prime Minister about Greek products. I don't see the Ministry of Tourism doing anything about it. I'd do it very simple. No tax on the hotel they won't open from tomorrow morning. A quarter of fixed payments: municipal fees, etc. But for hotels that won't open. When the other one is closed, you can't tell him "pay municipal fees as much as you paid before". Make a 50% discount on the world's tax advance as a government. Based on my last year's turnover, you're asking me for a 50% tax. But this year I didn't make a turnover at all. How am I gonna pay you? This year I'm putting money on my business. I've got 80% dropping in my companies, 82%. How am I gonna pay you 50%? It's a tough place for you. Leave what SYRIZA says, what the KKE says, what the Greek Solution says. It's a tough place for you. I imagine, over the last forty years, no government has faced such a pandemic. There wasn't. It's something unprecedented. It's true. But listen to others, do the others know something better than you. You don't know everything you do. You're not everyone, the Einsteins or the gods. And we're not telling you that you're doing everything wrong. You're doing good. Who said you're doing everything wrong? They're opening the hotels. We were doing a study with Mr. Villardos. We have sat down ten economists and found this, that if you reduce VAT and take it to 5% or 4% or 0%, but you, Minister, have to take Greek products to hotels, we will have a multiple profit than if you take the VAT. Let's give you this study, Minister. Mr. Villardo, send her to the people to see her. Go and see and do and follow a false tactic. Let's go down. Exemption of tax, vertical drop of turnover. I have been telling you for a long time, Minister, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you have put duties on products from third countries: Morocco, Algeria, Egypt, Turkey. None of you listen to me. Yesterday Turkey decided to impose duties on eight hundred European products. Europe's 'hard'! 'Eat the vegetables of Turkey, drink the milk of Turkey'. Put duties on it. It hits us in our own economy, puts duties on our own products that we export there, but we import their own, make them duty-free. Why? Where are the government's reflexes? Where's the Prime Minister to see this? These are eight hundred products, including Greek, ladies and gentlemen, which we export to Turkey. It puts us duties of 30% -40% on it. Where's your logic? I have been telling you for months: put duties on Turkish products to support Greek products. You don't. Turkey is doing it for its own products. We don't. Nothing! You have booked us for three months, Minister, Mr. Theocharis, at our homes. We all said "yes, to support not to spread the coronary among the Greeks". Now you're telling us the tourists will come by thousands, but the coronary from the tourist to the Greek doesn't fit. How is that possible? Did the Chiorda say that? The man didn't say that. How do you do that? You're taking a chance. That's it. We're risking. When you risk your own life, it's your right. But when you risk other people's lives, it's not your right. I say it, so you know what can come, if what Mr. Chiordas said at times is true, because one says so, one says otherwise. I can't catch him anywhere, Mr. Chiorda. He's covered from everywhere. Ingenious. I like him. He's an excellent scientist, but in any case, he's in the fucking shit like Komaneci. I will say this, however, to understand it, Minister. This story doesn't stick to my mind, why to fill with tourists. You told us that "the krone does not stick in the trade with two meters of distance". We were all sitting on line. You told us "on the beaches at nine meters the krone does not stick". We were sitting with the umbrellas all away. You told us 'a mile and a half between bars'. We've been to the bar for about a mile. You also told us 'a measure on public transport'. We did that, too. Now, in the planes and arms to go, it's not the coronary. How's that working out? It's laughing. What you say to the world doesn't work logically. Say, we have to take a chance. I'm not saying anything that's not true. I'm telling you what you were saying. Risking, all of us supporting your risk together, but prove it's worth it, that you have a plan for what you're going to do. I tell you that we are going blindly and I fear that we will face huge problems in this story. We are a country that does not produce, a country that has never been based on its actual production. And when I say 'production', I mean not farming fields, but reaching the fourth and fifth stage its rural economy. Otherwise, he'll never get back on his feet. We rely on coffee, bars, food shops, tavernas, hotels, which operate with bracelets, which means that the first crisis in tourism will declining the Greek economy. There's the mistake. He's talking the wrong thing. The pandemic is an opportunity for everyone, Minister. One chance to understand that the country's production process needs restructuring. This base we set up on hotels, food stores, tavernas in Plaka, bars, bouquets, is over. We need to set up another production line. We risk our lives - and I say it directly - and the next generations. For example, you tell the hairdressers to wear masks in there without the air - condition. Have you been to a hairdresser many of you without air-conditioning to see how they work? It's a terrible situation. Have you been to a stroller - you know, Minister - where someone else cuts the round to two hundred forty degrees? The fat fumes on his face with the mask are to die, dry down. Have you gone to a creper that's two hundred and twenty degrees each machine over there, or to the taverns and cooking? It's not easy. I told you, it's not your fault for the pandemic. It is, however, your fault: it is your fault that you are not really planning properly. Call a spokesman from SYRIZA, one from KKE, the Prime Minister, and talk about what we can do. It's a national matter now. It's not a government matter. You're a little confused, Minister, you and the Prime Minister. It's not about the government, it's not about pandemic. It's a matter of the country. It's a Greek matter. I'm also going to say this. We want a denial from you, Minister - and I said yesterday, you were not here, you were not obliged - to cooperate with the Turkish Minister for Tourism to take on tourists. I know there was a call. Has the call been made, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u180	You got it. Well done. So tell us if it's yours. I mean, I want you to deny it. And because I want to close down so I don't eat time, I'm going to say something that the Greek Government should do. The day before yesterday, Donald Trump, whom we are all laughing at, Minister, decided to buy 3.5 to 5.5 billion euros of US produce and share the American state with American citizens. Why don't you guys do it? To support the Greek producer who produces Greek macaroni, Greek milk, Greek cheese and to share them. I'm telling you the obvious. What are you guys doing? You share money anywhere, anyone. Oh, no! We support the producer, we support the start-up of the machine and we can help the economy. Also, I have a complaint about the Cretans. Is there a Cretan here? The Cretans in Crete, Minister, have a problem with oil. People have stored oil and the wholesalers are blackmailing them at very low prices. I'm not Cretan myself, Mr. Levane, we're clear. Since, however, oil gives us EUR 500 million a year in foreign exchange from its exports, we must make it self-evident, support the first good that gives us foreign exchange input in Greece. And it's oil, unfortunately or happily. People cry. They are blackmailed for 3 euros, for half euros, for 1 euros, to throw away - it says - oil at sea. Let's take a look at this. It's a very serious, huge problem. I'm also going to tell you something and I'm closing here. I have been spared to talk about the need to create a real herb-based pharmaceutical industry. I'm doing it in my business. The government can do that too, Minister. You're sending them to the mountains and to the ski lagadia, but there's a herb in Grammos that makes 50,000 euros a kilo. I've said it a thousand times in here, and I'm confirmed. It makes 50,000 euros a herbal medicinal product! Now listen. For every 1 euro Greek drug, our GDP is increased by 3,42 euros. He's a multiplier. So if I make a 5 billion-dollar production in drugs, for four, it is 20 billion. And it can be done because we have the first generation, we have the herbs. The Germans take them from us, as I do, they take them to Germany, they print them, and they sell them to us five hundred times up. Bring me the Mercedes, I get it. I don't make Mercedes. Sending my own herb back and paying for it five hundred times up, I don't think that makes sense. He needs a plan, ladies and gentlemen. I told you. She needs a plan. We're not here to fight, fight, fight, or yell at each other. He wants a plan. I will also regret the newly-democratic patriots, unfortunately, I will say this directly, but what Mr Dendias said yesterday is eloquently unacceptable. Essentially unacceptable! Greece came and voted, Minister, as President of the UN General Assembly Vulcan Bozkire. Greece, by its vote, made President of the UN General Assembly Turk. Look into it now. You're doing well, Mr. Comrade. This gentleman was elected by Greek vote. We voted Turkish. Who's this gentleman? He is the chairman of the Turkish Committee on Foreign Affairs, who gave the green light to become the Turklibi accord, Mr Theochari. Do you understand what you've done? He who made the Turklibi agreement was voted by Greece in the UN to be the President-in-Office. He's committed a crime here, the Department of Foreign Affairs. A real crime! You can't vote for the person who questions the Greek EEZ under Crete. That's the president you made. Of course, Turkish soldiers took Greek territory to Evros, ladies and gentlemen. "Small piece of land," says the Minister. Up there - he says - in Evros they took a few prisoners. And listen to the statement by the Foreign Minister, Mr Theocharis, 'We do not create tensions for a few dozen measures'. That's what the Minister said. Admit it as a blemish. On December 7, 2019, Minister Dendias said, your Minister: "We will defend the last millimeter of Greek territory." I mean, a millimeter defends it. The hundreds of measures that we have lost in Evros from the Turks who have carried out guards there in a time of peace do not defend them. Listen. You must defend Greece in its national affairs and in the face of Turkey's provocation, which requires an incident. Get away from us the episodes. He really wants us to be cool. But when they take possession of the territory, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have a solution. Recapitulation of the ground! You have no other solution, or you'll lose Alexandroupolis, you'll lose Thrace, you'll lose the Aegean, you'll lose other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u183	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u184	I wanted two things to be said about Mr Velopoulos and also to put forward legislative improvements. We are listening to the procedure in which the proposals are right. For example, in Article 8 we put 'before environmental licensing' so that there is no misinterpretation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u185	Now, I heard Mr. Velopoulos, with his well-known bro. You're saying that very well, Mr. President. Of course, this is a bill from the Ministry of Tourism. I must be the Foreign Minister to answer you, Minister for Rural Development, to answer you, because you told me about oil, Minister for Development or Health for medicines. Even on the issues of the Ministry of Tourism you spoke not at all about the bill, but about all the rest, the medical sources, etc. I have listened with interest to the various studies you have prepared and I am happy to see them. Of course, if in these studies you are as diligent as the figures you give the Greek Parliament, then I am not sure that they will help. You said we have seven hundred thermal sources. The ministry records tell us we have a hundred and twenty-four.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u186	It's working. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u187	I'll give you the floor to answer, Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u188	You said we have a hundred forty empty. We got seventy ones. Our ministry, at least during my term of office, but before that, had improved the legislative framework and, beforehand, under the SYRIZA government - I have no problem recognising it - accelerated the procedures so that we could develop health tourism. Now, the examples of inaccuracies are huge. You said oil brings most of the revenues. Did you say that in a bill from the Ministry of Tourism? Tourism last year brought 19 billion. The currency brings it, of course, to tourism. This is the strength that brings forth the currency. I don't know if I should be confused, but I couldn't watch and figure out exactly what you're saying to us. Are you telling us to keep the country closed so that we can make the productive redeployment? You tell us to close all the big hotels, just stay with small ones, and the employees of these hotels, what are we going to do with them, will they continue to sit? Are you telling us that if you don't like a kind of activity, should all the employees stay in line or receive an unemployment benefit? Are you telling us that we take a risk by opening the country's borders, but the health protocols, which are the country's first defense, so we don't have any health problems, are they too strict and should we not wear masks? I mean, I don't understand what you want. Do you want to take risks or not take risks? What I certainly understand is that you want to see if misery continues, unemployment, and you have some argument that it is the New Democracy's fault. Uh, we're not gonna do you a favor. The country will go forward, the economy will begin and we will succeed through this incredible efficiency that the country has demonstrated at three levels: first with the determination of the Prime Minister, after the efficiency of the government and the public administration, of the officials who have been thrown into battle and, thirdly, with the commitment and confidence shown by the Greek people. With the responsibility of the Greek people, we have achieved a great deal. These things will be our passport to achieve even more in the coming months and years. You bet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u189	The floor is held by the Chief of the Greek Solution Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u190	Minister, you probably didn't understand what I said. And the selective use of numbers leads to the wrong conclusions, as well as the lack of understanding and understanding of what I have said. I said there are seven hundred medical sources. It doesn't mean that all seven hundred are working. In Nissur, for example, we have, nothing works. Do you want me to mention other areas? So do not make any suggestions to me, trying to distort what I say, to put yourself in favour of the government and the Prime Minister, because you have a reshape in front of you. That's your thing. It's not mine. You also said that - and here is the strange thing - you open up now and you risk. I'm going to ask you something else: why did you turn it off? Why did you close the Greek economy for three months? To open the tourism now? Why have my shop been closed for three months? Why did you shut down the grocery store, the manaves, you shut all this down, and now you're saying wisely: "What do you want? Do not risk?’ I didn't say you wouldn't take any chances. I'm saying something else that you didn't understand well. I say that you have not asked anyone in here, neither SYRIZA nor the CSCE, whether or not we have to do what we have to do, because it is a national matter. You probably didn't realize what I said. In closing, I'll tell you something else. Otherwise, I envisioned, my friend, your governance. You know, the Minister of Tourism is not just the Minister of the Hotel. He's the Minister of all activities. And it is your activity to suggest to the Ministry of Development, for example, that hotels take Greek products with tax exemption or under VAT. You're a little confused. That's why there's bureaucracy, because every minister is in his ministry and nothing goes wrong with it. You're making mistakes. Finally, you're becoming businessmen. The country needs businessmen. There is no need for any ministries or ministers who live in the Ministry's docks and say: 'I do nothing else to keep the Minister from bothering the other Minister'. Suggestions I made. As far as the proposals are concerned, I told you about the ski and you made it a garrison. Ski doesn't need it in Greece. He needs other things. I said about religious tourism. Do you want me to give you the studies? Let me give them to you. But don't be irony, because I'm not the one to iron you at all. And I said specific things. My numbers are specific and I don't change them. There are seven hundred thirty-seven thermal sources in Greece. You want, you don't want these. But I said the hundreds work forty. That's what I said. The rest - you're a noble man - don't do it. There's no need. The risk is yours, but you're playing with human lives. That's what I told you. Why do we not agree as political parties, institutional ones? Shall we open up? Together. To put forward proposals for everyone to take the risk together, because we're talking about human lives. Otherwise, why did we close Greece for three months? Well, you could've risked it then. Why didn't you take a chance? Is it because you didn't have intensified clinics or masks or respirators and were afraid? I understand that, too. But be honest, all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u191	Minister, you have the floor for a minute this time to move on. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, there is no reason for more time because it is meaningless. I have the feeling that Mr. Velopoulos might not like. We need to clear up one thing, because all the rest doesn't make much sense. I said before that, that the New Democracy Government is not risking to the minimum. He addressed Mr. Chiodra, whom you degraded from the Step of the House. You said he's doing shit. Good man, but he's doing shit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u193	You're welcome, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u194	No, Mr. Chiodras doesn't do shit. In this health committee, it's not just a human being. They are twenty-five people, all the brilliant scientists and no party parchment. The New Democracy has proved to be ruling. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has shown himself to listen to science. Science, not medics. And by listening to science, we brought this result. And this result will not be taken to risk it for you, neither for us nor for the last citizen of this country, because we are also respecting the last citizen of this country! And we've proved it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u196	Here, Mr Velopoulos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u197	Minister, I don't know what you're doing. I don't know where you worked in your life. I work every day, and for my work, I don't pick up a word from anyone! Because the medics, as you have implied, are the medics of vaccines in the New Democracy, where you brought fifty million vaccines and well that were Xinogiannakopoulou and blocked them. Understand? At the house of the hanged man they don't talk about rope, because they themselves were - Chiodras and Kontozamanis - along with Mr. Avramopoulos. Don't forget that. I don't personally hit anyone. And I will close as follows: You can flatter - I repeat - as long as you want the Prime Minister, you can fear reshape. I see him as a reformer too, but he must listen more. If that bothers you, it's your business. So in the next reshape, be Minister, I want you to be. But I don't know if the Prime Minister wants it. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u198	The Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy, Mr Spyridas - Panagiotis Lebanese, has been asked for the floor. Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying things Mr Velopoulos knows: patriotism is a pillar of our policy, the national interest is obviously defending it by the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and his declaration to cover every inch of Greece remains, as well as by respecting international law everywhere. I recommend once again a temper for the President of Greek Solution and his executives. In this context, I think that, if they want, we can discuss at any time all the management that the Government of New Democracy has done at both the borders and the immigration and the Greek-Turkish. But in order for the President not to abuse me, I will say that I agree with him on the issue of oil. I'll add the olive. I'm not speaking on behalf of the government. I am speaking as a Member of Parliament and above all of Atolokarnania, who have the greatest olive oil and olive oil production. In this context too, we really need to see how we can strengthen the oil producers and the price. I wanted to start by saying that if Mr Velopoulos did not make this intervention, I would like to say that because I see the SYRIZA executives all dressed in blue - and the rapporteur and the parliamentary representative and his staff - I will start with a saying of Lenin, who says that there are decades that do not happen for decades. That is exactly what all of us have been living in, the whole world, and here in Greece for the last three months. In the big question "health or economy", Greece's answer was one and one-sided. We have chosen and insisted that we choose, in response to all those who have spoken in this Chamber today, the protection of human life. We have taken immediate and instant action to protect the whole of society, of course risking the universal closure of the economy. We knew the price was heavy. But it was, it is and will be human life. So let us not confuse the Greek people with such attitudes and do not fish in cloudy waters. We did the right thing. We won the first round of battle. We kept society and economy up. How did we do that? With hard work, respect for the expert opinion, structured plan, effective management, things that the previous speaker seems not to know from this step, so he's confused with some changes. Progressively on the issue of health, measures, the committee, as Mr Theocharis said before, which is made up of experts, decides, changes plans. The Prime Minister has said so in all his speeches, it is almost every afternoon at 6 p.m. Mr. Tsiodras and the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection. Let's hear him know what's going on. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] The pillars of our policy were the inspiration of confidence in the citizens, the demonstration of Greece's potential, the absolute conclusion of individual and social responsibility. Contrary to what the SYRIZA rapporteur said a moment ago, we supported, supported and supported the public health system. We have chosen to subsidise work rather than unemployment. We put back on the small and medium-sized business, just backwards from what SYRIZA claims. We are strengthening workers, households and the unemployed and, of course, we have maintained social cohesion. And don't laugh, Mr. Comrade. Why did we do it, though? And here we may have an interesting dialogue. Because we have relied on the strong, timeless, ideological bases that our prolongation, New Democracy, political liberalism and social solidarity are going on. We have proved once again to you that the attempt to identify the New Democracy with neoliberalism is simply a bayian candy that each opposition is blowing up and has no serious political arguments. We recovered with our political credibility abroad, built relationships of trust with the citizens inside, developed the pride of the Greeks everywhere, significantly strengthened our national confidence, set Greece an example to be imitated throughout the world. Nearly all the governments and all the media, which are obviously not covered by the government's famous communication programme, are credited to us. Today, then, three months later, we are entering the second phase of the crisis, where Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced the entire plan of the government for the recovery of the economy the day before yesterday. This is based, as you have seen, on three pillars: Supporting labour, reducing taxes, boosting entrepreneurship. This project has a social seal and a development signature. You'll see it in the next few months. We'll be here to talk about it. The allocation of 24 billion is to support work, and we are putting this famous 'CONT-WORK' programme into practice, with which we are subsidising exactly, as I said before, the work. We don't pay allowances to lazy people sitting. We want people to work, we want to support the companies. At the same time, we are reducing taxes to a critical level so as to increase the revenues of these companies affected by the crisis. We're reducing VAT, as you know very well. We're cutting taxes on tickets, on the media, like ships, planes and trains. We also reduce the advance payment of the income tax and strengthen the consistent ones - this may affect you who support the red - borrowers. We are speeding up investment procedures to make our country an even more attractive destination than it was at the beginning of 2020. I don't know if you heard what they said businessmen from all over the world in the past few weeks. If you didn't hear it, I'm sorry. Your English, I think, is fine. Listen to them what they say about Greece as an investment destination now, because there is this government with this policy. However, because the Greek economy is completely intertwined with tourism, it was presented by the Prime Minister and by the Minister, Mr. Theocharis, the special, studied and costly programme for tourism, the RESTART TOURISM. We are once again presenting it to you today because, as I understand it, Mrs Notopoulou may not have read it well. I'll give it to her later. Although I think she is studying, that she is a serious new politician, I think she is being lured from the fanatics of her party and instead of coming to have a constructive dialogue here, she is attacking without evidence. Internal tourism has been liberated since 25 May and we are strengthening it with more than EUR 70 million, while he told us that we are doing nothing there, when on your day, ladies and gentlemen, on SYRIZA and ANEL days - let us not forget your ally, Mr Kammenos, because he had a Minister in this ministry - there was not a single social tourism programme. So you blame us, but tell us, give us a list of social programmes when you come to speak, Mr Santorinier. We expect concrete answers, not flammables and aerials. As far as foreign tourism is concerned, they gradually open our airports to international flights with no preventive quarantine, but with sample checks, with a sample of preventive tests. So what do you want? Holding the tourists who come to Greece for fourteen days in quarantine? If that's what you want, when you go up to the Stepma to tell us to hear it and the tourists hear it and the Greek hoteliers hear it. The health structures of our island destinations have been strengthened with six hundred new COVID beds -19 and twenty new analysts for the examination of samples. Operational plans to deal with any incidents were also drawn up by establishing a doctor accommodation, a special coordinator per hotel group, as well as special quarantine spaces per island, with detailed health protocols ensuring the protection of public health and the quality of holidays for our visitors. There is a point in your criticism here. We'll give it to you. It can be aggressively expressed, but I think it is useful and we agree that there must be a further specialisation of health protocols. It is right to point out and I am sure that it will soon be implemented. So this programme, which, as I have said before, is the biggest support programme for tourism ever made in the country - and if you wish, challenge this - which, of course, has welcomed with some reservations, that our partners and interlocutors in Europe, but also throughout the world, in other countries, welcome and try to copy, you come with your representative, but, as I understand it, with your Chief, and you reject it, you reject it. It's obvious that once again you're out of place and time. We are listening to the well-meaning and well-meaning proposals. You have seen this today with all the legal interventions by the government through the ministers and those which he considered right, he has put them in the bill. So instead of coming to work with the government, working with the parliamentary majority to improve our national plan in a creative way, you constantly attack us blindly. How else can one justify statements of the type that have been heard today 'carbon the treasure', 'unplanned', 'you have done nothing so long', says Mr. Haritsis, 'only... wishful words and start from scratch'. You said, Mr Santorinier, that small and medium-sized enterprises and business workers are crying with the measures we have announced. You also say: 'No liquidity, no access to money...', 'there are no foreign programmes'. It's a structural criticism without any element. Two things may happen, ladies and gentlemen: either your knowledge and your interest, which I cannot question personally, but I question, because of what you say, is not sufficient for tourism or that you are coming back to your neighbours - and this is probably the case - in your genealogical authorities, in other words, your party, inexperienced populationism and irresponsible populism. You blame Mr. Theocharis for underestimating his ministry and position because he puts the design of the TIADE. But are you serious? You came, did you give the entire Greek property for a hundred years to TIADED and now resign the Minister of Tourism that he cooperates with TIADE? Will anyone really take you seriously? Your rapporteur spoke about the donation of a billion to the people of tourism. So I call on all of us, and because they are lacking, to tell us without any escapes from which social sector you propose to remove these funds: from the unemployed, from the free professions, from the employees? Don't laugh, don't laugh. Here we are waiting for you all day to tell us. But don't do it that you're leaving the question. We want answers to that, too. What do we think? That for every euro we announce must correspond to a code in the state budget. The programs of the Greek people have paid them very expensively. Perhaps, of course, you'd expect us to give the answer to the sequel of "We're staying up", this programme that you postponed very promptly and withdrawn the day before yesterday. If you have no answers today, have the courage to tell us here at the seat of this House: 'We have no answers, we will wait for our Chief to tell us on Monday'. But you didn't suffice in this. You even claim - and I fear you will become graphic - that you brought us before your rapporteur - tourists in Greece. I mean, this is where we're gonna go crazy. Even in this you try to fruit others’ efforts. Evidently in the days SYRIZA - ANEL was climbing tourism, but it is well known that it was culminating with a constant record in the government of Samaras. They're known numbers. Who do you come and make fun of? Look at them and as soon as you study them, you come and tell us if they were falling the numbers then and you uploaded them. And tell us how you did this and bring the tourists, while the rest of us are kicking them out. This is an attempt to get the job, the fight of each Greek and Greek who is directly or indirectly involved in tourism. It is disgraceful - I tell you sincerely and politically - to fight the sweat of other people. With no other arguments, you blamed the Minister for his indulgence and for his indulgence in tabling this bill. We're really wondering about this. How can you consider the debate to be opaque, especially about diving tourism, as well as other forms of thematic tourism, which can provide additional wealth for our country, open up a new market of thousands of visitors, expanding the season and bringing to the national goal of creating a 12-month tourist year, four seasons per product and region? Indeed, it is a continuation of the choice - he told us by burning it, he probably doesn't understand what he says - another New Democracy government, Costa Karamanlis in 2005. We remain committed to the development of thematic tourism and the major objectives of tourism. You tell us - another question I don't see anyone recording these questions, why obviously you don't want to give answers - what did you do about diving tourism five years ago that you and Kammenos ruled? Your time to answer will come. In other tone than you, by SYRIZA, Mr Arsenis expressed some specific questions about the effectiveness and constitutionality of five, six articles. The government - I tell you all sincerely - is therefore supporting the parliamentary majority, which is why we support this government, not because it is our party, because we believe it - always consults experts and always acts and controls that it acts in constitutional terms. The two Ministers will answer you for one - these issues which you have raised. I just wanted to focus on Rule 13, which is not even what the Scientific Committee of Parliament points out, I imagine you will have seen it. As to the possibility of archaeological sites in diving parks, there is no constitutional provision forbidding it. In addition, what do we do, the government? It adds as a safety net for the protection of shipwrecks that if a diving park is established in an area where there is a shipwreck, there is also the agreement of the Ministry of Culture - which you said where the Ministry of Culture is - after the opinion of the relevant central council, not of any other minister or private body. Also, what do we say? That the private investor does not acquire the property, obviously, as it remains in the public interest, but is paid in exchange for the State. After all, the possibility of diving in the shipwreck existed - and you know it, Mr Velopoulos said so before - and before the accompanying ancient guards, but, unfortunately, we do not have enough of them today. So what would we do? How would we do that? You're not telling us. There is therefore no unconstitutionalism, but there is also no organisation of the process, with the initiatives taken by the Ministers for Tourism. But there is a conflict of attitudes and perceptions, and that is a reality, Mr Arsenis, that you are expressing a minority tendency in society, but that is consistent with your ideology. Liberal political perception is persecuted by the fact that the public certainly retains ownership over monuments, but by collecting taxpayers' money, net in exchange for Greek revenues, for the Greek state, it allows the private operator to exploit it, but always by controlling it, always by keeping the property, obviously. What do you prefer, and obviously your colleagues on the left? The gray zones, the unclear limits. That's yesterday. You must not represent misery, we believe. We do not want to represent it, we want to create new job creation opportunities, we want to create wealth that is distributed fairly in society. Answer us for that later. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis - and this has also been proved by the ministers with what they have accepted from your proposals - is always open to dialogue, but when it is done in terms of civilized and decent terms, as can be done by everyone, rather than by labels of vulgar right and hints of service of financial interests by the government. Rectorials satisfy your own small audience, a movement of protest and disobedience, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, but they do not cover the whole of the Central left and of course do not cover the entire Greek people. Tourism - we all know, we say it, but we don't believe any of us - is our country's heavy industry. But she's flexible too. It requires serious, substantial and scientific dialogue, cooperation and consensus. It can't stand party divisions and political populism. So I urge you to stand up to the circumstances, to understand your institutional role and to participate in dialogue with wisdom and responsibility. We have a battle in front of us, to claim the biggest part in a constantly falling pie, a national battle where no one can spare and a battle where there cannot be five phalanges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I shall now give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Heta, and then we shall proceed to the colleagues. Mr. Baraliakos, Mr. Santorinios and Mr. Simopoulos will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. You know you have half the time because your Chief spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u201	I know, Madam President, thank you very much. To know - to hear this already - that we did the tests and they're all negative. I don't know if you know or not. And all the Members who took the test yesterday and the officials in this House - listen to this, too - are all negative and it is very important that this should be heard. We're doing good and we're taking action. Mr. Theochari, Minister, you really surprised me today. That is why I took the floor now, because I have never seen a minister attacking a party president who had first honoured him with his presence in his bill. If you show me a political leader who is here today, Minister, who honors with his presence your bill, I will now apologise. Secondly, tell me a party leader who came here today with a pouch of suggestions - with whom you can disagree, it's your issue, it's all right - and instead of saying 'congratulations you came and told us five things', you made him an inappropriate attack - not honest - and you tried to hit him sloppy and other things. I really didn't understand, unnecessarily assault. I was expecting you to listen to a good word and say, 'Good thing you have come with ten proposals, good work done by your staff, thank you for your presence, Mr President, for my bill.' He talked about how many articles on your bill and you said incompetence - I am sorry to say it - you said 'you did not deal with my bill'. I also want to tell you that in my brief presence in my parliamentary work here - you are more experienced, Mr Theochari, but to teach you the regulations - the Heads and Presidents of the parties can talk about any matter they want. Nevertheless, Mr. Velopoulos has spoken a long time about your bill and, more generally, about the structure called tourism. And tourism, gentlemen, it's not industry. It's not our heavy industry, it's a service provider. It's heavy paper, but it's service, it's not industry. And it's a dangerous situation, like now with what we're living for. Also, Minister, I understand the anxiety of everyone personally here and the insecurity. I do not know how many times a minute you are obliged to say the name 'Kyriakos Mitsotakis'. Well you do, well you do, it's your business, and it's not our business, but we want you to answer the substance. He asked you some questions, you didn't answer. Did you have a call from your Turkish counterpart on tourism, yes or no? He asked you something and you didn't answer. You have committed yourself to an unnecessarily serious attack, Mr Theochari, I did not understand it. It would be very honorable for me a party chief to come to my bill and make these suggestions. No hard criticism has been made of anything. Suggestions! Also, Mr. Theocharis, you can tell your partners - why you cannot know yourself, who should rather - that Mr. Konstantinos Kouskossiou, who is Professor of Dermatology, legal, President of the Hellenic Academy of Victimal Medicine of the Hellenic Association of Health Tourism, President of the World Academy, says - I will present it to you in the Minutes to get it, too - clearly the thermal sources in Greece are seven hundred fifty, of which the hundreds twenty-four function and are recognised. Everything the President of the Greek Solution has told you. Don't try something that he said to twist, say that the evidence he gives you isn't valid, so all the analysis he did to you is not valid. It is not honest how you played politically today, Minister. Mr Levane, no one disagrees on patriotism and national issues and you will always find us on your side and it is not an area of political controversy in Greece. And we've proved it. And on the issue of Evros, which you are using as an argument, you have done what we have been talking about for years and we have said tougher measures. We've said a cement wall, we've said mines. And we have seen all this before us now, because we do not have the Swiss side or the Luxembourgs. We have the Turks. As far as I am concerned, Mr Levane, the part of illegal immigration which you have also referred to, I would like us not to discuss this issue. Please, I'm very grateful. Let the chestnuts out of the fire, Mr. Metarakis. Don't mention the issue of illegal immigration, because you're not getting along at all. You put the country in an incredible revolt eight, nine months until you balance out what your final plan is. And I'll let you know that they're already coming in, they're starting again. Unfortunately, we have new invasions from both Evros and the islands. For us, this is not a matter of political controversy to take advantage of. We are sorry, we regret that our country fills with Islamachia with thirty-two CYP and thirty-two young potential mayors. That's right! These are potential mayors in thirty two Islamajorias throughout the territory. What more can I tell you now? Also, Mr Levane, you respond selectively, unless you still have no information, which I respect. We'll be here by night. Has our country voted for the Turkish Secretary-General of the UN, yes or no? The information is cross-checked and we ask you. If so, it is unacceptable. But we didn't hear you answer. In addition, you told us about the issues of patriotism. What statement does Mr. Treasury make? Yesterday at the ERT, that it's okay for a few meters, or the one you or both have invoked? If it's both true, tell us which of us to listen, because it's confusing us. He wants attention, and it was wrong what the Minister did yesterday. Let's say it. As you had the political courage to say that you made mistakes in some others, that's why you should say that. It was wrong, and it's not times for such mistakes! As far as Mr Chiodra is concerned, you have also indicated that you should listen to him, you said, Mr Chiodra, to understand. We really don't understand! We don't have to have what someone just touches Mr. Chiodra...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u202	Things are evolving!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u203	Yeah, they're evolving, but he says everything. It's like that, not like that, you may cough, you may not cough, four meters, it can be two meters, it can one measure, it can be no measure! He's told it all to be covered. And in any case, we respect it, we were with you in the measures you took, with the world, with the battle that the Greek citizens fought. All right, you don't need to be hitting electricity once you hear the name Chiodras! For God's sake, that is! Holy cow! All right, it's Mr. Chiodras! The media is mocking him, making him. Yes, sir! Will you allow us to have another view? It's no different. And with regard to NGOs, I read today - because that is the point of being entitled - in a post that three hundred and twenty NGOs are entering the microscope. How many months has this rheumatism been sore about our language to say to you 'close the cancer called NGO'? Today, you set the target of three hundred and twenty in the target. Let's see! They don't want registries. Don't record them, don't register them. Close them and do what we tell you, as you do slowly, to solve the enormous national problem called 'lathromb immigration'. Minister, I'm closing with you. You really tried to use politically a presence of a political leader. I believe that you have been wronged today by Mr Velopoulos. That is our view, that you really did not blame him. Because he came to honor your bill, he came very read, with many suggestions, and you treated him politically dishonestly, not something else. There's nothing personal, politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u205	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u206	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I am only taking the floor on a particular subject. It is my omission and I should have already answered it before. I want to be unequivocal and clear. The Turkish Minister for Tourism has sent letters to seventy countries about how well his country has managed to deal with the pandemic, and so it is a safe country. We have nothing to do with the epidemics of Turkey. You don't have to be an epidemiologist to understand it. And the average man understands it better. I understand it myself that I'm not an expert at all. I am emphatic, therefore, that there is no such issue and I want to close it, as I have put it on the television and from here, from the Step of the House. There's no such thing as that. The fact that other countries may want to steal something from our country's shine can generally be honorary. However, we have our own procedures and we will, as I have said, take advantage of the successes we have for the sake of the real economy and the employment of Greek citizens and the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Baraliacos from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Minister, Minister, I would like to take the opportunity of my first speech to the Greek Parliament after the gradual lifting of the restrictive measures as a result of the unprecedented global epidemiological crisis, to congratulate all Greeks and all Greeks on this step. We have proved together that we are able to manage an extremely difficult situation and that collective effort to commit, discipline and responsibility together with a concrete and impeccablely designed government policy is the key to winning the battle with the pandemic every day. Our homeland gathered world praise and was converted into an example of imitation. This capital of credibility, stability and security is also our great comparative advantage for this year's peculiar tourist season. It is the capital to make the most of the opportunities offered by Greece, in order to win the lost ground, to limit the economic consequences and to take a step further than everyone. This is precisely the possibility of the legislation under discussion by the Ministry of Tourism, following the latest trends, introducing the best international practices of tourism entrepreneurship, exploiting ways of improving the quality of the domestic tourism product, and making a clear contribution to the expansion of the tourist season. This bill adds another important weapon to the well-being of the Greek market by improving the institutional framework of diving tourism, which has remained untapped and inactive to date, despite the fact that because of our country's geomorphology with the vast coastal areas it could be a multiplier of competitiveness and quality superiority. With the new regulations, the Greek waters and the seabed are transformed into a polo of attraction for a wide mass of tourists of high economic profile, who are more qualitatively upgrading our tourist market. Greece has an invaluable value of tourist, historical and archaeological background, as well as an uncompetitive environmental advantage of biodiversity. With this bill now, it also acquires an appropriate institutional framework that mitigates the bureaucratic tactics that have held the dive business for years, depriving an alternative pool of people who might be able to add critical added value and high profitability. It is enough to imagine that to date a diving park had to be signed by eight ministries, each of which was following its own dazzling bureaucratic procedures. The irresponsible legal framework and the denials of the administrative mechanism have drowned divestment tourism in our country. In the new provisions, the administrative procedure is simplified, the obstacles are removed, the licensing operations are accelerated. With the signature of only two Ministries, the creation of a diving park is immediately possible and effectively effective. Article 6 of the bill regulates the way in which the sights of diving tourism will be accessible and visited, along with those of the archaeological archaeological sites, and the creation of free artificial underwater sights, such as shipwrecks, floating shipyards or art works. The safeguards for the process and the protection of the environment will be guaranteed by the established Dumping Tourism Council, which will be directly accountable to the relevant Minister. In simple terms, environmental sensitivity is strengthened, without entrepreneurialism being trapped. Starting from the huge coastline of our country, it extends to the once sandy and sometimes harsh bottom to exploit our comparative advantages. Coastal areas acquire a tool to stimulate the local tourist chain, extend the tourist season and strengthen the local economy with new jobs. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, let me describe a good picture of the future in my own country, Pieria, a single thematic park in the shadow of Olympus, containing elements from the rich theme of the place, for example, the twelve mythical Olympians gods or the nine Mileages of Orpheus, where thousands of visitors and travelers would come together to know and admire such monuments, such diving parks, a great spectacle that radiates the greatness of the past, while looking confidently in the future. By adopting and implementing this draft law, Pieria will be able to invite the dive lovers, bottom explorers, amateurs of nature and history to discover the multitude nature of the sea and at the same time to invite the business world to expand its choices, develop the possibilities that are unfolding and create a stable, quality and profitable product that will enrich the tourist character of our region. At the same wavelength, inevitably and inextricably linked to the regime of our rich national coastline, the very important regulation of Article 43 is being moved, which restores the most functional and favourable framework for the simple use of saithe to 500 square meters, excluding hotels and complex tourist accommodations. This is a great breath, which at this unfavourable juncture enlarges the vital area of business. This, in conjunction with the recently issued GFCM which provides that the concession amount is to be fixed at only 40% of the compensation calculated, and even with the possibility of repayment in three equal instalments, is to a very significant extent considered by enterprises operating in this sector to be a positive development. I close, ladies and gentlemen, saying that Greece won the public health bet. There is a rough and upward path to block the consequences of the recession. With a siege critic in our tourism, his businessmen and employees will give the battle and we will make the leap faster than corruption. We must equip them with every possible means and with all the available means to recover the lost ground, to become the world's example of tourism as well as the next year to take it off with all our forces. They deserve congratulations to the Ministry's leadership, the Minister, the State Secretary and all their partners who have been struggling all this time to support our national system, our national product, tourism. Every day we must strive to find them the right solutions and implement support and real aid measures. This bill shows that we are moving in the right direction and can look at the future with more optimism and greater confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will now give the floor as a matter of priority to Mr Katsotis of the Communist Party of Greece because of the exceptional need and then to follow the list as a rule. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Our rapporteur has developed the JRC's positions on the content of the bill and, of course, everything at the service of profits: mountains, beaches, coastlines, NATURA areas, archaeological sites, medical sources and now the seabed. Let me turn to the government's tourism programme and of course welcome today's fighting mobilisations - interventions by the Athens trade unions against the measures included in this government plan. Gentlemen, the working people have experience. It sees, especially in recent years, more often that capitalist development is succeeding in the capitalist crisis. This periodic cycle of crises is in DNA of this form of organization of the economy of capitalism. All of you who have ruled and ruled together, the New Democracy, the PASOK, SYRIZA and all its paradigms, recognize that you have the knows how the management of capitalist crises is. What's that? All the consequences, all the burdens on workers, the self-employed, on the people, so that the business groups can continue to gain. Tourism, the "heavy industry" as you all call it, by the spectacular increase, has led to a spectacular fall in crisis. This crisis, however, was the bankruptcy of the 'THOMAS COOK' and we say it because it is not just the pandemic. The pandemic of course directly exacerbated this crisis, because no one travels without safety for their health. These are the extroverting branches that you supported and supported the capitalist recovery. The government tourism programme, announced by the Prime Minister and specialised by the ministers, caused a storm of reactions from workers and self-employed in food and tourism. Because they are the victims of this program. You are asking them to pay, in order to support the large monopolies and business groups, to implement their claims. Yes, they are the government programme. That is why the bodies of the large groups are very pleased. The sanitary protocols were put in quarantine. The distances, tests and all that the Scientific Committee has indicated and prevent the spreading of pandemic into the community are an obstacle to profits. That's why you're turning it aside. Of course, you also present so - called scientific studies that allow it. At the same time, you are allowing business groups to open when they choose to do so to ensure the completeness they want. That is why you are allowing them to suspend contracts without limit. You break the wages and working time of the workers and invite them to discipline in the Armageddon Works that forms and satisfys every claim of the major business groups. You have accepted, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the request by business groups to abolish collective agreements, which we note you have made to tourism! You are thus abolishing, in addition to all others, the right to re-entry thousands of seasonal workers into tourism. Seasonal and food business is obliged, on the basis of collective agreements and the law, to reinstate workers. This right is triggered by the request for re-entry submitted to the firm by the end of January through the sectoral or operational organisation of workers. Since then this specific employment relationship has been activated. The terms of remuneration and work shall start from the date of re-entry laid down in Law 1346/1983, in conjunction with the terms of collective agreements. Finally, the 10th of June and the 1st of May, Minister, for the Rhodes workers you will apologize for. You don't listen to me, but the workers in Rhodes are listening. We ask, gentlemen of the government. Are these workers considered by the government to be workers with an active employment relationship? Will the suspension of the contract of employment apply to all of them with the payment of even that amount which has been fixed and its insurance for the entire period of employment of the previous season? Many thousands of seasonal workers were blackmailed, were terrified by businesses not to apply for re-entry through their unions, because they were bound by the rights arising from this particular employment relationship. However, they continued to be concerned. We ask the government: will the same conditions apply to all of them? Will the contract be considered active? Will the suspension apply to remuneration and insurance, even as foreseen? Minister, you can't hear me. They are about the employees in tourism, and you don't hear me from Rhodes, from where you come from, they're thousands of tourism and they're waiting for answers. Thousands of workers working under forms of employment that you have legislated, as hired by slave offices, by contractors, by one day's contractors and much more than three hundred days a year, by those who work at receptions, catering, by those who work in peak months, will also have what protection? How will they survive? With the two months unemployment benefit, at EUR 800 annual income? This vast majority of workers in tourism are not invisible. They are the ones who together with other workers are tourist and food business. They are the ones who worked under hard, barbaric conditions and took off the hundreds of billions of euros you invoked. By the measures you've all announced, they're out of the field. For all those who are going to be unemployed, you say to live with the seasonal aid that will be a mere EUR 500 this year. You require, at the same time, fifty days of insurance in order to be able to regain, not unemployment benefit, but seasonal allowance. For immigrants who work in tourism, and are several, except for all of them, they also have the condition of a hundred and fifty days of insurance for the renewal of the working card. The majority of them are in despair. Those who choose to open up will be able to apply all the anti-corruption measures provided for in the legislative acts, suspend workers' contracts of employment, take turns to them, with reduced working hours, in general adjusting the working time to the fullness of the hotel groups by adjusting the employees' wages. The income of those working will be almost half of the previous period for the same working time. You are talking about sharing costs between employers, state and workers. I also welcome the fact that the state is also the workers of unfavourable taxation. The EUR 22 billion just last year, with a few million of all employees' wages, can they go to split-up? Four to five thousand a year of employees' annual income with billions of entrepreneurs, do you put them in a corpse? The EUR 120 billion over recent years, with the poverty and impoverishment that you have imposed on workers, are you thinking, here, and about the burdens that break wages? Self-employed professionals in food tourism, in addition to the new burdens of the crisis, will continue to pay for the anti-gaut laws that remain in force. We are putting the question back in the Minutes that we have tabled since the beginning of May for all of them. The workers, the unemployed, the self-employed in tourism, the whole working class sends a strong message: "We will not pay again the crisis. To pay the employer and the state." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The JRC supports workers' struggles in tourism and calls for massive, universal participation in all regions, struggling to defend the lives they deserve, not to compromise, not to subject themselves to the misery and impoverishment that you and the employer are calling upon to discipline. The employer and the State cover the income of unemployed people and workers in hotels and food, abolish the anti-dumping provisions of legislative acts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u213	I shall conclude, Madam President. Unemployment benefit for all unemployed, without conditions and conditions, suspension of payments in the form of electricity, water, telephone, banks, tax, reduction in municipal taxes and fees, banning the auctions and seizures of public households, canceling the thousands of redundancies which have been made so far, banned for the next period. Re-entry of all workers provided for in the collective agreements by opening up hotel and other businesses. Do not implement rotating work, no negative change in contracts, and the collective agreements must be complied with. Immediate measures to protect health and safety at work. To make the COVID tests free -19 to all workers, otherwise things will be very difficult and the only way is to fight the workers, which must be intensified, which must be escalated. Of course, on 28 May in Attica there will be the great rally and we call on all workers to take part in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr President, I would like to make a point to you, not to you personally. The subject of time is very important. To overcome, and we are tolerant of it. But the great excess of time - you know very well - is lacking time by colleagues. So I would ask you to try to be consistent in your time so that we do not have any controversy. It's not a nice thing. I personally don't like it. Mr Santorinios from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes and immediately after Mr Simopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Madam President. By listening to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, who has already addressed me personally, I have heard two phrases: 'Unresponsible publicity' and 'unresponsible populism'. And you said it about the programme that we tabled a month ago, 'We are standing'. We had that costing EUR 26 billion, i.e. EUR 14 billion in direct liquidity and EUR 12 billion in guarantees. You told us there was no money tree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u216	No, I didn't combine them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u217	Will you tell us what we proposed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u218	You hadn't calculated...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u219	I'll tell you what. So you told us there was no money. And you have now tabled a EUR 24 billion programme. Now did you find the money tree? Look at you, boy! Or is our difference of 2 billion euros? We'll figure it out somehow. You also asked a question and said, 'What have you done about diving tourism'? The Alonissos diving park our government has prepared it, no matter where it's going to happen now. Our government prepared it. So you don't want to say anything. From that point on, a bill for tourism comes in these circumstances. Welcome a bill for tourism. It extends activities for thematic tourism. Let me remind you that our government recently passed a bill on thematic tourism and the ministerial decisions are pending, Minister. You have to take them out sometime. Let's see that, too. But I'll ask you a few questions. What's your commercial plan really to get a higher percentage than the smallest pie? Are you going to tell us, or are you expecting "Marketing Greece" to tell you? What's your plan? Should we go to new markets, with a better epidemiological profile, given that the United Kingdom, the Netherlands - which are our traditional markets - this year rather we lose them? Are you going to tell us or will Marketing Greece tell you? And since we are talking about third country markets, such as Israel, the United Arab Emirates, have you made any move to make visas easier and perhaps cheaper? I'm asking a question to the State Department. You should know. I guess you might know that. So Mr Lebanese told us that we had not made any internal tourism programme. Mr. Levane, we've done this and asked the hotel owners. In the five islands that have hot spots, for example, we doubled domestic tourism days. Ask Lero. Go ask, and then tell us if we had done or hadn't. What are you doing? You say '70 million'. I heard Mr. Brutsi for 30 million, but anyway, is there a lot? Do you think that with them you can support inner tourism? Are you serious? And I'm telling you, we're not asking for social tourism. Social tourism - Mr President-in-Office knows, I imagine - has commitments. She can't go to any hotel. We are talking about another programme, which will be much more ambitious and addressing a lot more people, just as Italy has done. Italy did so the other day, it announced it. Why shouldn't we? Should we not support our businesses with internal tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u220	With a billion euros? Where? If you tell us, we'll put it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u221	And 1 billion euros, Mr Levane. Look, Mr. Lebanese, leave those rhetoric. [[Noise in the Chamber]] So we're telling you, bring in as an incentive for internal tourism in addition to the transport equivalent. Give all citizens the possibility of subsidizing their tickets with equivalent transport, regardless of whether they are from the islands. Is that a bad proposal? It is outside the transport equivalent budget, because unfortunately there has not been much movement. It's covered. Why don't you do it? Other actions to strengthen the islands of the Eastern Aegean, such as the entrance gates, have you done them? These should have started the process since December 2019. He didn't have a coronary at the time. You didn't do anything at all. And today, the entrance gates to the islands do not exist. Do you know what the entrance gates are? You don't even know them. So, what's your plan for health protocols? You brought the set. The health protocols, will we see them? How will health protocols be implemented? Who's gonna pay for these? They will have construction costs and functionality. Have you done any procedure to get the operations from the NRP? Coastal network. What is the government's strategic planning to serve tourism on the islands in the summer? Exceptional contracts end in May. Do you have any strategic planning or will we let the ships be tied to doco? You spoke about health enhancement in the small islands. I'll tell you one thing. I said it last time. We left two rural doctors in Kasso, and today he has a borrower. You have done nothing to strengthen health in the small islands. Even worse. With the measure of the partner doctor, tourist units in the small islands are at risk, where there are no private doctors, not to open up because they will not have a fellow doctor. I told the Minister, I hope he finds a solution. Are we going to find solutions for these? I've heard Mr. Plakatakis say he'll bring floating ambulances. One should tell him that this is an initiative of our own government through the INTERREG programme and in particular the "PANIAS" programme. Not to say what we want. Do you have a strategic plan for transporting from the islands? Did you get a second EKT capsule? It's ten grand. Did you get her? No, you didn't. The 20 analysts will reach us? Let's see who's using them. So you say that we are strengthening operations through TEPIX and the repayable advance. One billion budget, 250 million, one quarter. How do you do it? And through bank credit products. Do you know what a friend of mine told me? Whatever you go to the bank, they ask you for a kidney and half a liver. No small- and medium-sized business gets into the bank. He's not even going outside. So how will you strengthen them? [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Just a minute, Madam President. Aid capital is needed for companies that are not repayable. What you don't understand from that, we don't understand. And do you know what hotel owners understand in the islands? That today there is a takeover plan for tourists from aggressive funds. If you mean investment, then the islands do not need these investments. So let's go to the VAT on the focus. For the drinks, we forgot about it. When you were opposition, you shouted: 'Why don't you do a reduction in drinks?' Shall we go to the residence VAT? And we forgot about him. The change in the mix of the tourist model, the tourist mixture of VAT favours all inclusive. Do you understand that? I'll close with the paper. So today in Rhodes, as Mr Katsotis said, there is a protest by employees in tourism. Do you know why? Because the first measure announced by Mr Staikoras was the continuation of the suspension of work. You're subsidising unemployment. You're not helping her. And the 'Cooperation' programme you bring brings 20% reduction in the wages of workers. The extension of unemployment benefit is until September. And I'm telling you, the workers who from October last year until May of the year won't find a job how they'll live? Have you thought about it? Many of them are couples, they're family. How will these people live?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u223	I'm hanging up. So we suggest something else. To forbid this year's apprenticeship in hotels because you know it's an indirect way of renting workers. You're forbidden. Just this year. As Mr Katsotis said, because there is the right to re-entry in collective labour contracts, with legislation helping workers at least a year to be able to re-enter. This condition of collective agreements also applies for time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I shall now give Mr Simopoulos the floor and then we shall take a break. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you that there is no way that this time will be exceeded by the next Members. Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u225	I got an all-out from the President of the Greek Solution who talked about Comaneci. I want to remind Mr. Santorini that the famous Nadia Comanechi in 1976 swept through tens. The government has so far taken three tens: in Evros, in the health crisis and in the first phase of the economic crisis. Now we're in fourth. In the fourth phase, let's wait. Maybe he'll get a penny again. I would also remind you that when there is no policy - I am not talking about you - or professional experience and we want to light up with opposition arguments our word, too often we have to resort effectively to fatalism and an attempt to deceive everything. We are not competent in this Chamber. I also want to say that when we do not understand that we represent a very small part of the society we are talking about and talking about throughout society, we still cannot contribute to the promotion of parliamentary work. These are things I have seen in this Chamber for several months now that I have been happy to contribute to the reason we are articulated with whether we are government MPs or MPs. Now I'm actually coming to the point. I imagine even the Vice-Population MPs who are in the Chamber would like to climb to Shahik Su and see Thermaiko fully covered by sailing boats. Like the Magnesia MPs, for example, to be in Pelion and see the Pagasite like this. Is it possible? It can't be done. So why disagree in how this should be done? Why don't we have sailboat shelters? Can I tell you why? Because the Ministry of Tourism, a new essentially new Ministry, has become an artisanal mechanism. I had the misfortune to deal with a tourist ship shelter in Thessaloniki for three years, which we finally managed and did. Unbelievable suffering. Why, then, should this process not become outsourcing? Not to lose control of the Ministry. And are we talking about the TIAD that holds some tourist ports and we want the privatisation process, or the PPPs or their development, to relocate them to the Ministry of Tourism, to the Department of Tourism Boats? It wasn't my business. I was there. I know how it works. They want to confirm their role. They constantly found stumbling blocks. So, yes, we have to go to outsourcing. The same, otherwise, happened in the notorious ESAL. That is where the signatures actually enter general secretaries. Yeah, that's what it's supposed to be. We have to find a way to work quickly when something doesn't work. And general secretaries may put signatures extremely easy. So there are two different examples of how the government sees what we are talking about reforms, how we can actually bring foreign exchange at a difficult time. That's what the bill does. There may be differences in each other or there may be issues that need improvement. Do we need to have a better framework for diving tourism? Yeah. Do we need to have new ways of sectoral tourism? Yeah. Where I would really expect Anti-Policy to focus and be constructive, for example, on what we do with the training centres for SMEs that exist throughout Greece and which are not used. Can't we bring families of tourists who have a member of AME and are looking all over Greece and around the world for a way to come and take a vacation? Have we seen the centers where we have blood transfusions that are in our hospitals all over Greece in what condition is it? In a very difficult situation. And yet there are clubs all over the world who want to come to Greece, as long as they have a blood transfusion and blood transfusion centre next door to take a vacation. I expect you to put these issues on, and I come here and I hear an incredible misery. Is that what we want from our country or do we want to go forward? I don't know if SYRIZA really really is divided. Because I hear some of his representatives, who really have a modern word and have some opinions, which I may call them ideological, and there are people with whom I object and object, but I can discuss. But there are some, no matter what age, who you think is a hundred years ago. Is that how we go forward, ladies and gentlemen? Is this how we are going to discuss both local or general issues? I shall conclude, Madam President. I tried as hard as I could be consensual. I may often be acid, but I never see matters on a personal level. All I raise at political level. But if we let matters pass without actually pointing them out the way we should, we'll stay here the way we are. This government does not intend to leave things as they are. Yeah, it upsets the water. And I've explained that it's very possible, I hope and believe it, that we have another penny, Mr. Santorinier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u226	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. We're gonna take a five-minute break and come back with Mr. Biagi, from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I call on Mr. Biagi, MP of the Change Movement. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, one would expect to see the debate in Parliament today on the draft law with other provisions, with very different features. Minister, tourism has been hurt, and I fear very much that it has suffered enormous damage. The damage is too great and the 'account', unfortunately, will be heavy and unresolved. I would therefore expect, given the current crisis, to see from you a bill providing for the management and prevention of the crisis in the tourism sector, a bill that would ensure a minimum degree of sustainability of Greek tourism. Instead, a bill comes in which much of it concerns diving tourism and which, without any intention to underestimate, is not a priority today, except that a similar legislative framework already exists in your 'arrangement'. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come from an island whose economy depends to a very large extent on tourism, on the monoculture of tourism. I do not know whether you have considered or can imagine, Minister, the extent of the disaster that we will suffer as a state and, above all, as tourist regions. A number of industrial and business sectors will be called upon to face a cruel and inhuman daily life. Any support measures you have announced have not been effective. With these measures we are 'golding the pill to the patient'. We're telling him to stay calm, but unfortunately he's still sick, and he's getting severely ill. The tourism industry in our country supported the Greek economy. She supported her in difficult times during the memorial period. Help to keep our economy up. And we have to bend over it. Minister, we owe, and we need, tourism, a horizontal reduction in VAT for all the tourism product, not semimetres. There is no need for less VAT on natural juices and drinks. The lack of liquidity in the market and financing through banks makes the situation difficult. Professionals need to be directly in need of funding, even small, so that the small businesses that are the largest number of tourist businesses can be opened up and survived. The application of protocols will be a burden on businesses, and we need to take this into account. We must, Minister, apply a cost-planning plan for the certification of undertakings. The lack of a test in the country of departure will create insecurity to both the tourist and the professional. The lack of a single protocol from the European Union will make travel more difficult. Without the opening of Germany and Britain, reservations will be reduced. The opening markets are a very small part of the market. The lack of a common agreement in the European Union on protocols and travel is a strong shock in tourism, creating insecurity. There's a need for information. Minister, you must at some point, in addition to the figures you refer to and speak of tourism financing, give us a percentage of the firms receiving these amounts. It will be very important to draw some conclusions. With regard to tourist accommodation, after your intention to change data for lifeguards for accommodations under the fifty beds, Mr Ministers, why do you not see the possibility of tourist accommodation being included above a number of beds, so that they will also be included in the process of directly entrusting the Aegean, as is the case with hotels and as with so many other tourist businesses? Why don't you see it as a solution, when we're overcoming a very difficult problem in the island regions, with the KHS you've issued and which is time-consuming and deadlocked? It will happen after too long. See this part, too, so that they can get the accommodations in, so that they can take advantage of the data available to others. Mr President-in-Office, in my opinion, all of us, but more so you, must realise that support measures for the firms affected must not be of a horizontal nature as a whole. They must take into account the essential specificities of each region, since the impact of the tourism crisis we are facing does not affect all the regions of the country. The measures are not and should not be the same for everyone, because, because of seasonality, the majority of businesses in the purely tourist regions - even those which the Ministry of Finance considers to be unaffected, ministers such as small regional shops, such as catering shops, such as gas seamen, like taxis, like all these professions - are affected. More generally, all the port trade is a key factor, as is the nature of the visitors of each island, each region. A large part, for example, but also a major source of revenue for businesses of all kinds of retail trade and focusing on my island, for example, Corfu, is the cruise, which, given the circumstances, is the most affected sector of tourism, which seems not to recover within the year. It should also be taken into account separately for each region the enormous influence on the local tourism economy dependency on student transport and also on the different nationalities of visitors, as they are differentiated from region to region and some will be much more affected than others. Other parameters must also be taken into account. For example, in my area there were great consequences for the cancellation of events at Easter holidays, as Corfu is a top destination. Seasonal operations on my island that closed last October expected how and how they were working these Easter days. They didn't work. You have opened them up and even though you were raped - for what reason, I have not understood it - even though they have not received a single euro from their customers, you have not taken any care of it. In addition, it is important to see and consider how public health will be guaranteed, given the enormous deficits in the region, problems that both my island has on staff and equipment, and taking into account the fact that we are waiting and the threat of a new outbreak of pandemic. Before I close my position, I would like to stress that a total of articles in relation to this bill has been placed the rapporteur of the Change Movement. I would also like to put forward an overall proposal for tourism on the occasion of the current situation, which will talk about the next day and have quality characteristics. I think we need to get away from the negatives that mass tourism has brought us, Mr Ministers. In particular, we need to find ways to slip out of the models we have been using to date and which are based on increased demand in the months of the high season and poor completeness in off season, with low invoicing. The phenomenon of over-tourism in high seasons, which the number of demand is increasing too much and even completely disproportionate to the infrastructure we have, not only in beds, but also in accommodation and infrastructure such as sewerage, road network, waste. All this has burdened the environment, but also has irreparably reduced the quality of our tourism. Tourism support must be at the top of the agenda and this means tourism at a slow pace, giving basis to the demands of the customer that are constantly changing every day. The issue is the quality holidays that will focus on health, safety, well-being and relaxation of the body, the spirit, but also on knitting, if you like, local societies, local products and the cultural account of each region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Colleague, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u230	In this way, Ministers, we will offer authenticity, quality and stability to the new product that will now be chosen by fewer customers, yes, but which will bring better economic benefits and respect our environment and our region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. We've been through nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u232	I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you. After the pandemic, for example, prices are expected to go primarily to flight tickets - take into account, Mr Ministers, but also to air transport in general. This whole scenario will be a deterrent and quite significant blow to mass tourism. We need to be ready, and we're not. That is why we need to prepare ourselves to meet the needs of quality tourism. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that they are indeed very interesting, innovative and all that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u233	Mr Colleague, please speak for ten minutes. Take time from your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u234	I wonder, however, whether everything we are discussing today is compatible with the spirit and overall situation of the country. Is it an opportunity for all of us to sit down and think and see how we can reboot the machines, facing creative challenges of the time? Is it time, at the very last moment, to draw up a long-term plan for supporting, developing and strengthening tourism, including a minimum safety net for crisis prevention and management? Because divestment without tourism does not exist, Mr Ministers, and it cannot exist in any way. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Just because most of us have written texts, I think we know how many words we have to use to be in our time. Being at 10 minutes and depriving a colleague of time I find it unethical. I'm so sorry. You all know that. We have another six hours of meeting to know, and some colleagues may not be able to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u236	We'll talk three minutes less, and we'll cover it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u237	That's not the point. It's not like that and you know it very well. Mr. Stylus has the floor. I would ask you to keep your time, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our fellow citizens, especially the Continentians and the Artinians, for the strength and fruitability they have shown at these moments of the great human trial. All of us stood up, brave and strong. We protected her human life and dignity, without voices and wrestling, but with an internal force that made us all function together as a man. However, now is the time to pass on to the next day, to turn the moments of crisis and fear into creation and work, to build on the confidence built between citizens and the state, to move from the stage of health planning with economic support, to the stimulation of the economy with constant care for health and to move towards everyone, with a sense of responsibility and social cohesion. The Bridge Plan presented by the Prime Minister contains a large grid of interventions in the fields of employment, employment and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, investment in tourism has been carried out in our country forty-five years from many, from different starting points and from different directions. The tourism sector is a possible piece of paper in this effort, and we must take advantage of that, especially today, when time is not our ally, even when other tourist destinations, competing in our country, have been much heavier than the Krone crisis. With the bill that we are discussing today, there is an attempt to strengthen our tourism product in specific categories, such as divestment tourism, glaming, prolonging the tourist season, by means of regulations that modernise the institutional framework, abolish bureaucratic turbulence, correct errors and malfunctions of the past, focus on entrepreneurship and investment. And all this with full respect for the environment, nature and in the light of the protection of our marine and american cultural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to take advantage of the fact that our country is the ideal destination for a combined holiday, even covering every visitor. We are addressing specialized and demanding audiences. The provisions of the bill we are debating today in diving tourism have rules, such as the creation of diving parks in an area where they act as an incentive to growth, create new and dynamic jobs, strengthen existing tourist infrastructures, upgrade the tourist product of a place by attracting quality tourism. This draft law also complements the existing institutional framework with arrangements for tourist and port facilities. The aim is to strengthen tourist investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and State Secretary and the rapporteur of the New Democracy have been detailed and detailed about the advantages of this draft law. The effort we are making is to run fast because, as I said, it is not time on our side. Last year, in 2019, we had revenues from tourism almost 19 billion. In the first two months of 2020, we received only EUR 1 billion. Last year, in 2018, the corresponding revenues were EUR 16,1 billion. They therefore remain to collect EUR 18 billion in order to be able to say that we have no damage this year. It seems difficult. So our efforts in tourism must not be stopped here. There's still a lot to be done. Minister, tourism, in synergy with our culture and our primary sector, can bring multiplier benefits to all sectors of the economy. A euro collected by tourism has until now a multiplier of the order of 2.5. We can raise this multiplier and increase it. The linking tourism with the monuments of our cultural heritage, our archaeological sites, our museums and our agricultural production will not only upgrade the country's tourism product, but will also contribute to the simultaneous improvement of the availability of our agricultural products. Every year millions of tourists visit our country and create a great demand. To cover, therefore, their nutritional needs with our own Greek products. Engaging tourism with our local gastronomy. The creation of a distinct, special label that will incorporate not only the product itself, but also the history and special features of each region, is the next day's demand, especially for regions with culture and a dynamic agri-food sector, such as Arta and Epirus. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you all to stand up to the situation at this difficult time. We have before us a very difficult summer and a harder autumn. We can do this if we show unity, compassion and good will for cooperation. Let us all go beyond the difficult together today and have time for disagreements and political controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u239	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Famelos has the floor and immediately after Mr. Tagaras. Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on diving parks and the Ministry of Tourism bill is being held within the framework of World Biodiversity Day. And I think that this is entirely linked to our country's tourism, natural capital and our national gains and the environment. So today, on the basis of World Biodiversity Day, it appears that the restoration and protection of ecosystems is a basic prerequisite for the objectives of sustainable development, particularly those relating to climate change, those relating to the eradication of poverty, food security, and the protection of water and biodiversity. 2020 is, more than ever, a year that shows us that the protection of biodiversity is linked to both zoonoses and to health and well-being, but also to the balance of the planet. That is why the 2030 European biodiversity strategy includes specific commitments with more stringent protection for ecosystems, for areas of high biodiversity and climate value. That is why the SYRIZA government also invested and proceeded with reforms and positive steps in this direction. However, unlike all of this, the New Democracy Government follows exactly the opposite. It has proceeded to a number of laws at the expense of Greek biodiversity, at the expense of the Greek environment, contrary to the objectives of the new European strategy, contrary to the decentralised and participatory management model of environmental bodies, questioning the trademark of Greek tourism, the natural environment, removing the conservation actions for protected areas from the activities of operators. And unfortunately, the new tourism bill is another blow to the environment, since it was also characterised as environmentally acceptable. What's the difference? For us, for science, for the global community the environment and history are worthwhile, they are elements that can give quality, work and progress to tourism and all economic sectors. The government considers both obstacles. That is why it is coming and being circumvented both the provisions of the environment and the archaeological law. This also exists in the bill of the Ministry of Tourism. We have heard the bodies repeat it. And we heard the House's Scientific Service coming and saying the same thing today. The absence of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is also confirmed by the legislative improvements tabled by the Minister. The opposition, all of us, the bodies, the Scientific Service of the House found them. The question is: did the Minister for the Environment, who signed it, not see them? That's a serious problem. And it is a serious problem, apart from the fact that they have now been manually changed, Minister. You're still creating problems. Our problem is why the Ministry of the Environment is absent from such strong and important legislation. You know, there's been a lot of discussion in society. Mobilisations are being prepared, texts are being signed. And yet, the Ministry of the Environment has not heard all this. And while society provoked, the opposition promoted, science, the Ministry of the Environment and the government did not. And that proves that the Ministry of the Environment is closing in Greece. Mr Hatzidakis has received a clear mandate from Mr Mitsotakis: to be the expropriator of our country's property and to be the one to close the functions of environmental services. At the same time, I have to tell you that it does not pay tribute to the Minister of Tourism to bring these state-of-the-art legislation at the last minute and since we have all pointed it out to him, because now it creates a bigger salt in two levels: First, where is the ‘final state’? You have passed a law which we condemned as "fuss" and about now - I would say - nine months have not created the corresponding service in the House that replaces the CEN. So not all of this is controlled at least in terms of legal decency and balance. At the same time, the second, if you like, "fusca", the second shortest joke that is heard in the House, is that we have a "green" Prime Minister. Honestly, the bills that have come in these last few weeks show that unfortunately your policy on the environment is older than the one they have been doing in Greece twenty years ago. There is one serious issue that you have not answered yet. Why don't you use the UN standards from the Barcelona Convention on the Driving of artificial reefs and materials at sea? I told you, the WWF tells you, all the agencies tell you. We tell you. I tell you that a state agent of the Ministry of the Environment, a political person, took part in Naples in December when this protocol was adopted. You ignore it and at the same time ignore all levels of overhead, if you want, planning whether it is maritime planning or regional development plans or the specific spatial area for tourism. In fact, you are undoing the rule of law that investors, businessmen need - and local societies at the same time - to move forward with sustainable development. So you're putting a bomb on the foundations of development planning. And in any case you think: We'll take care of our friends, we'll get a vote and some ruffet, they can support us as a party in our election game, we're going out and you're not bored, bro, what happens next time. However, this is not a policy which contributes to our country and our country. I shall mention to you, Minister, in particular - because I do not have much time - that the Scientific Service of Parliament confirms that Article 2 does not clearly indicate the definitions. I would ask you to see page 11 of the report of the Scientific Agency and to make corrections at least at the last minute. For Article 2, it says that you have confused the kinds of divestment tourism and a reflection arises and contradicts Articles 7(1) and 8(1). At the same time, in Article 8, the Scientific Service of the Parliament tells you that there is not sufficient clarification of the issues of protection of the marine environment, marine spatial planning, protected marine areas, and that it addresses issues which fall within the institutional framework of the European Union, which you have brought together. So there are wider issues of compatibility. And we want the country to have a framework for diving, and you deprive it of it. Furthermore, Article 21 raises a very serious issue, which has also been raised by the Spatial Association and the WWF, and we have put it, as regards the fact that the status of WIFIs cannot regulate either the protection status of the other regions nor conflict with the Special Spatial Plan, nor can there be any treasury in the area, excluding use compatible with the tourist object or by making access to the beach of citizens in a wider area outside the WITA. So too, the Scientific Agency puts you in Article 29, with an appeal to the role of the field. And he points out that at least five decisions of the Council of State create conflicts with them. Rule 31 did well and you withdrew it. However, in Article 32, leaving the arrangement for the transfer of a build-up coefficient from the whole area approved for the operation and not only through the golf courses, it may be transferred, in conjunction with Law 4280, to other uses outside the golf course, which in theory supports it and may be hotels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we come to Article 33, Madam President, where all the legislation relating to the restoration of reafforestation and forestry works of all authorised interventions, not just tourism, is amended, which may include, for example, processing of agricultural products, hotels, may include port facilities. For all this, you also change the equivalent of reafforestation and the price of money if there is no reafforestation and forestry. I should like to close, Madam President, on the major issue of Article 43, where the Scientific Service of Parliament devotes over four to five pages and tells you that there is an essential element of the natural environment that is questioned in contrast to the Barcelona Protocol on the protection of the Mediterranean, contrary to several decisions of the Council of State, where the destination of this matter is undoubted by common use, i.e. the beach, where consideration is given to the extension of the occupation of the beaches. In fact, it says that there is a question of whether these are compatible with the extremes described in Article 24 and, of course, that there is a concern about the dismantling of the territorial confinement when concessions are made on adjacent plots for all the front of the activities, which excludes the citizen and the tourist - and that is what the Council of State and the Scientific Service of Parliament say - from the use of the agialos and the beach. These are serious issues that challenge the tourism product, apart from environmental and spatial planning. And because we have come here to contribute to the diving tourism debate and because you ignore the needs of the tourism sector and the business world and the workers - because there you have done nothing - we tell you at least about diving: can you provide for our country to have values in the environment, in tourism, and at least diving tourism to be done correctly? Because you don't even cover this limited item with this law. On the contrary, you are also insulting the environment, you are insulting investment, you are also insulting work on tourism, as you are generally a government of political deception, which does nothing to help the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Tagaras has the floor, and then the State Secretary, Mr. Consolas, will speak. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had two consecutive adventures, one at national level, the deep and long-term economic crisis, which has affected the lives of all of us - and we must all be better affected - and then another crisis in the world health crisis immediately came to be added to the previous crisis and made our way even more difficult. In the very development of life uncertainties there are always. No one can fully design the next moment and the next day. And if we were taught something about these difficult situations, on the basis of what we have been through and affected the lives of all of us, it is that we, if we do not know what the next crisis will be, be prepared by the experience of the previous and last, at least have created mechanisms for direct reaction, management and response to any crisis. In this sense, there have been many mechanisms, which are unprecedented and unprecedented for our country and from the point of view of modernization, but also from the point of view of reaction and - from the point of view of measurement - correct results after right choices, because we have been able to reach agreement for the first time all of us, because we have heard those who have the knowledge and because in the end we have decided correctly for the benefit of the whole society. The results are for the benefit of our society and are the ones that are against foreign reports for us in the period of the economic crisis, it is an honor for us all, since state and citizens for the first time, through such tensions, managed to unite forces and come to an agreement, we have had good results. Let us keep this as a minimum of understanding and cooperation, because we all have a responsibility. We all want it all. We don't all miss them, we miss them, and I understand the anxiety and the need. However, no one can ignore the fact that all of what has been going on in the legislative work over the past few months and, on the occasion of and as a result of the pandemic - which are necessary changes in all places - is why we need to show reflexes of adaptation, development and corrective complementary movements in all areas of society and the economy. With these remarks, I would like to say that this bill is also in the direction of complementing, giving other activities in the tourism sector, supplementing and correcting gaps that exist - and there are always - but they will always evolve. Even the changes and additions that come to the bills, which are continually - because life is evolving and giving rise to new needs - are a result of the debate and also of all those that are said by all colleagues, from all the wings. Any government, like today's, is obliged to do everything that is positive to do. We have no reason for any good and what helps not to accept it in any bill. That's what we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, following the general remarks I am focusing on two - three points in the bill. We extend, as I said, activities that were not there or we improve and modernise, such as diving tourism, by modernising the framework, the creation of the Divest Tourism Council, the exploitation and visitability of the archaeological site and diving parks, not uncontrollably, not without control, without protection, but by exploiting, highlighting and highlighting the wealth of both the sea and its activities. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The institutional framework is also being modernised in areas of organised tourism development. An important observation is the mixed function in terms of urban integration and tourist facilities, that is, camping with tourist units, hotels, more integrated interventions, more efficient use of space and protection, of course, as well as the new tourist product, because we are not dispersed, neither alone in the world nor first in the world. So in that sense we're evolving as well. And one final comment. An important article 46, Mr Minister, provides a way out of a problem that occurred last year in the renting of rooms in a sanctuary, beaches, on a public-sector basis, at the seaside shops and businesses. In addition to the fines, they were banned from the law of 2017 to be able to reoperate for five years. It is important that the penalty is corrected, because the previous one was destructive, especially under these circumstances, and it is one year and after relapsing with regard to the abuse of a common space on the beach and with retrospective power from April last year when the problem arose. I think it is an important contribution to making it possible, especially in the coastal companies, to make use of this possibility, together with the others that have been given either to grant additional public spaces or to reduce the existing rent costs up to 50%. With these remarks, I too would like to add my vote in favour, and I propose to all my colleagues that this bill be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Tagaras. Mr. Konsolas, State Secretary for Tourism, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, I believe that it was good luck today at this time, to speak before me two former ministers, both engineers, Mr Tagaras and Mr Famelos. There we found that there was a gap of ideas and documents in terms of haunting arguments as to whether or not the bill brought by the Ministry of Tourism here is in the positive direction. And I say good luck, 'cause we got a picture. I respect the other view if it is accompanied by arguments and decency. And I would like to point out here that the Chamber also had arguments and decency from whatever way they came. However, we have seen two things today, that life cannot be stopped with whatever crisis and, above all, after that, that tourism cannot be stopped, no matter what happens as a crisis that is blocking the tourism economy and tourism policy. So, with this report, let me say, ladies and gentlemen, that today the Ministry of Tourism presents a very important bill at a time when pandemic has touched society and the economy. Another juncture, too, which makes the bill extremely important, is that it promotes tourism policy, tourism development, and that is precisely the government's interest. In addition to the pandemic, we are pushing on the development, which Mr Bukokoros also tabled to the committees today and Mr Lebanese, with their excellent views. So we don't need to say once again that it's not a fragmentary arrangement that the Ministry of Tourism brings, because many of you have been placed from all the wings, despite the fact that you know the attempt of a previous government since 2005 to institutionalise issues relating to diving tourism, yet so far it has not worked a dive park, while the whole territory has of course been built to develop this kind of tourist development. Apart from the fact that the bill is important, it is also extremely timely, ladies and gentlemen. And it's timely why? Because we have seen from the past time that the tourist product is extremely vulnerable. So from this point of view that we have had since the last two months, three months, which everyone with our own contribution, we have all contributed to the positive image of the country abroad, we have seen that another strategy needs from now on. And I want without creating turbulences and fears to say that good or bad from now on the tourist product will be different, it will change, it will not look like what we have lived up to now. And this bill gives this emphasis, gives an answer to the vulnerability of tourism that we have seen. There is another point, however, which must be pointed out today, namely that beyond mass tourism and beyond the fact that the Ministry of Tourism is developing a strategy, Mr Theocharis believes that we must also give the competitiveness and the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism in this direction is working, the competitive sign that we must have in relation to our neighbourhood and this fact makes the bill extremely important today. You know, ladies and gentlemen, we can't hide, it's not an easy effort, it's a difficult effort to raise the Greek tourism and the tourist economy, but above all to get into a normality that has a prospect and a sustainable character with a horizon that goes beyond our own mandate. There will be some others tomorrow at the Ministry, but we want to base ourselves on what has happened so far. We are not dismissing any attempt, but believe us, Mr Mitsotakis believes that the Ministry of Tourism must have a dynamic that goes beyond our own mandate. That is precisely what we are seeing, since last year because of the pandemic, because of the difficulties encountered in transport, because of the statements made by many European officials who have created confusion and a gray picture - that is the truth - and also because some have discouraged travel, even in relation to the position which the Greek Government and the Prime Minister themselves have tried to bring Europe into a single policy. She didn't come in, for example, with the protocols. This, then, shows that we must all blow our sleeves together and I am glad that we have already seen that this is a national effort. No one's left over, ladies and gentlemen. There is no tourism with a left mark and a right sign. I remember from Mr. Avramopoulos to Mrs. Kountoura, from Mrs. Kefefaliannis to Mr. Markopoulos, but also Mr. Markopoulos now and Mr. Theocharis and Mr. Konsolas, Mr. Lulis and others, Mr. Frankakis, Mr. Gerekou, I remember everyone talking about national effort. If anyone disagrees, you can tell me here. No one disagrees, but you see that the conditions go beyond us. We must therefore say that the government needs a social contract, we must believe that the tourism economy is the biggest donor to any other economy in the country, because the tourist market - let the Bank of Greece say about 35% - says that it gives the economy a great deal of goodwill with a contribution of more than 40%. So the social contract must show a horizon in the future that we should base tourism on another basis, and this bill does. Ladies and gentlemen, following the problems that the Prime Minister, with the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism, has had to deal with the forces, links and relations that the Greek state has with the outside world, and it has proceeded with bilateral agreements, which he has done with the Prime Minister of Israel as well. You know that, you've seen it in the media too. What's the character and reference? It is in the sense that we should regain forces quickly, regardless of what Europe is doing, despite the fact that Europe shows that it is the main pillar in its flows towards the country, about 70% are from central and northern Europe, but we cannot ignore the other markets at this time. Mr Theocharis spoke about this yesterday, he will speak today at the end of the day and say more about it. However, because we have set that on the 25th day of the month, Monday, marine tourism begins, its first June starts the hotels on the 12th base and on the 15th season, we must be ready to receive visitors, always in the light of public safety and health, as well as the safety and health of visitors. We hear many say: "But, what happened? While we said that there should be an entry protocol, now we say we will accept a number of visitors?' Listen. I'm stressing it from this Step. We are not going to accept visitors from countries where the frequency index is different from that which Greece has achieved from other countries that have the same frequency. If we see at the beginning of July that something changes, we are talking about it. Until then, public security is the main guiding and direction of the government. I would like to stress, therefore, that in this context the Ministry of Tourism and its executives have long been working on establishing protocols from the direction that have been given by social partners, health bodies of Greece and abroad, operators of tourism in Greece and abroad. So, in particular, we have submitted to the social partners these protocols, to the Ministry of Health, to the EGE and we are waiting for their approval and, after our decision today, if the draft law that for the first time provides for the history and the establishment of health protocols is adopted, we shall follow the implementation. Mr Lebanese asks me: 'Are we ready to implement?' Yes, I fully answer. The Ministry of Tourism is ready to implement the protocols, it has discussed with universities and in the next few days we will announce public health departments that have received certification in the implementation of specific protocols. We are waiting for the communication to see if the EGE also gives additional certification to them and we will proceed to implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this pandemic has created a huge crisis in the tourist economy as well. I do not believe any of us waiting, seeing that the period of touristism has shrinked, that we will be talking about 35 million visitors or over 20 billion revenues. We are all aware and left-wing and right-wing, so as not to blame anyone in this Chamber. We all know that there are problems and it is not easy to raise the tourist economy. That is why the government's programme was when the normality set in 2021 began, the economy stood. You heard the Prime Minister both in the public debate and in the proclamation the other day said that 2021 will be a time that will not look like the previous one, we will have achievements with indicators very high, I am sure, but until then the economy must be up. This comes in three ways: Maintaining jobs to the greatest extent possible, professionals in tourism can support and also strengthen businesses. In order to strengthen business, liquidity is needed. These measures, both for the employability of workers and for the support of professionals, but also for the issues relating to liquidity, are only part of the measures and will follow others from the government if necessary. You heard the Prime Minister say that we will continue the unemployment benefits for non-workers, that we will continue to support businesses, tax and insurance and as regards payments to their obligations to the Independent Independent Income Authority, but also with the degression of tax rates. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the announcement of measures in tourism enables us to discuss in plenary today and beyond the bill and I ask for your understanding, which I have mentioned in my introduction. However, I cannot comment in depth on the issues of the bill, in which a very important and firm bill is being formed, which gives the country another perspective when it comes to bringing visitors with another income valve from Europe and the world, since, once again, as I said in committee, twenty-five million dives are certified as dives that can qualify - so-called self-diving - and another four million in Europe are calling for a way out of the Mediterranean. So it's a brilliant opportunity. I take the opportunity to take the opportunity of the debate before the committee responsible in the Senate Hall, to point out that the bodies as a whole welcomed the bill. Of the approximately thirty-two bodies, it is a question of whether there were two opposed to the fact that there is sustainable growth as the only problem, which they have very difficulty in saying. Vassilis Ypsilantis and Yannis Pappas are here. That is why I would like to point out the reference made by Mr Diamigalis, Mayor of Kalmonia or Imion, as you say, which said that this was a need for Kalymnos and for the country, which we have been waiting for decades to change the tourist brand of island destinations. It cannot, ladies and gentlemen, be Cyprus, Malta, Croatia as pioneers and we with such blessing and so many beaches, coastlines, cannot move forward and be more competitive. But look, it is not just the bill dealing with diving issues, which here shows a prospect of highlighting the natural wealth, the bottom, even with the cooperation of municipalities, private individuals, businessmen, enriching the bottom with submerged sights, highlighting the wealth of fish stocks and the beauty of the bottoms. So this all composes an enchanting picture the next day for visitors, who are even repetitive. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The bill, however, goes on to something else, in other ways. I shall end with three references, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. There is also the provision of Article 56 which enables us to implement our commitment, a commitment by Mr Mitsotakis and our own government to become a country where education, training and lifelong learning, but also research will be a leading and vehicle of tourist development and not just of education. It will be the country that can have a competitive mark both in Europe and in the Mediterranean and in the world in relation to the provision and services it offers with quality, with officials who will be trained in the education structures of the Ministry of Tourism, and that is what we are doing. So we're setting up other tour schools. We first operated a second year in Athens and after twelve years in Thessaloniki. Now what do we do? We're founding the school in Rhodes. You know what Rhodes means, Dodecanese, South Aegean. We found the school in Corfu and the school in Crete. At this point I would like to thank a colleague, Giannis Kefaloniannis, MP Rethymno and State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, who has supported this prospect for months now. The site of the school will be Rethymno, near the humanitarian studies of the University of Crete, with the result that along with Heraklion, which has a training and education centre, along with Agios Nikolaos, who has ASTE, and Chania which have a branch of regional tourism services, give a dynamic to Crete, different from the one we had so far. Crete is a key priority of the government for the next day. But be careful, ladies and gentlemen, and I am closing down with my last report. It's not just this bill that makes arrangements. Two other bills that we worked on at the Ministry of Tourism in the previous period are ready for consultation and will take turns after they have been deposited with the Government Secretariat. One is a comprehensive proposal for the redesign of education, training and research, which reshapes the course of study and makes the country very advanced in other specialities, which translates services to tourism digitally from executives we will make out of these schools, but it actually makes the country the most important in Europe in terms of tourism education. I shall conclude with the last sentence that we have tabled to the Government Secretariat. It is the bill that we have worked with Mr. Theocharis very closely with the Ministry's officials to propose the reorientation of the services of the Ministry of Tourism in the region, the so-called regional tourism services in the country, which we give them another perspective, the prospect of becoming political units and structures, support for entrepreneurship and development in the region and substantial support for the people of the tourism market with one stop shop services in the region, and in the fourteen regions, in order to make it easy, without bureaucracy, to move towards a development framework for the next day. Mr President, I would like to thank you. As you can see from my small location, the Ministry of Tourism has a plan for multicentre development in the country, a plan that goes beyond the crisis now and brings us all together to the next day for better days for our children and tourism. Again I wish you health and good power! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u245	We continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Mela. Then will Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou speak from SYRIZA. Mr. Mela, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during a battle, they say that you do not wonder whether you will win or win, but continue and fight. So we for three months have done nothing less than fight every day with all the available powers. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis in this unprecedented health crisis reacted immediately and with an organized plan. At the same time that large states with organized health systems and powerful economies were caught in sleep and broke up against the virus, a small country, our own country, Greece, proved to have a great stature and became a "black sheep" of Europe, which was in previous years, for example of good practice. We won a battle, but not the war. Our individual responsibility, discipline and expert advice are our weapons until science now gives the final solution. The same international instruments, which in previous years we were being mocked by, from the middle of the pandemic crisis and then present Greece as a model and as a good practice, for the rest of the countries to copy us. What did we win with that? Something very important. Confidentiality. Where are we gonna capitalize it? In the great tourism industry, which is the "motor" of our Greek economy. The specific draft law of the Ministry of Tourism includes a mesh of measures that improve and promote the development of diving tourism and for the first time the shipwrecks of ships and aircraft will be visiting for pleasure diving, as well as the archaeological archaeological sites. We extend the tourist season, modernise the status of creating tourist ports in order to attract new investments. We are introducing a new tourist product, glaming, to tourist legislation. Legislation is adapted to the needs of a modern tourist market. At the same time, we increase the concession area of the simple use of hayalus from three hundred square meters to five hundred square meters. Finally, the health protocols to be used to limit the spread of the coron are laid down. One wonders: 'We're done with this bill with what we want to do about tourism?' The answer is obviously not. So you will allow me, Mr Ministers, to present some of my thoughts to this bill on tourism. The health crisis reminded worldwide that Hippocrates was Greek and Greek doctors are one of the best scientists in the world. A great opportunity for our country is therefore to shape the legislative framework so that Greece can become the destination of a particular form of tourism, that of medical tourism. In addition, combined with diving tourism, referred to in this bill, a subsequent bill could re-adjust the legal framework for fishing tourism. The only island status of our country could create for thousands of coastal fishermen a new economic activity. The turn of fishermen towards fishing tourism, therefore, through a modern and flexible and specific framework, will cause two very important changes. The incomes of Greek fishermen of coastal fishing can be increased, and at the same time we can achieve the protection of the marine environment from overfishing. For the islands of Argosaronicos, which belong to Attica and are close to Piraeus, for example, fishing tourism is a very good opportunity to expand the tourist season, as it could be linked as an activity with the cruise, which is based on the port of Piraeus, and every year it is visited by more than a million passengers. This activity will give life and strengthen the economy of the smaller islands of our country, which as politicians we have the responsibility and the duty to keep them alive. I shall mention, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment made by the Ministry of Interior, Mr Theodorikos, earlier. This amendment allows for the provision of public spaces in shops for the development of bank seats, without any additional charge. In addition, where it is not possible to further grant the public space, a reduction in charges up to 50% will be possible. This arrangement will apply until 31/12-2020, so by the end of the year. We therefore take the necessary sanitary measures to limit the spread of the coronary. We are making the business of the focus viable by limiting the consequences of the pandemic. We thus ensure thousands of jobs that are directly or indirectly linked to focus. Moreover, the number of workers in focusing and tourism amounts to three hundred and sixty thousand, according to the 'ERGANI'. Here you will allow me to make a little further comment, because we are dealing with the bill of the Ministry of Tourism. Undersecretary, a proposal I told you earlier and I think we can see it immediately: in Piraeus we have the Zeas Marina. There's a focus business there, too. Perhaps over there, I imagine, because there are marinas all over the country, that we can make arrangements, respectively, as we help the towns focus shops, so that there is the same possibility for the marina catering shops that fall within a slightly different legal framework. I think we can see it. He's got a lot of interest there, too. I'm sure you'll look into it and do it. We are therefore legislating on a global tourism market with the provisions of this bill. We open up new prospects for tourism and create new jobs. We are developing both local communities and tourist investment. Our central goal is to upgrade the tourist product in our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You'll give me a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism is the heavy industry in our country, the tourism that has been most affected today by all other sectors of the economy worldwide. The choice of responsibility is to support our country's heavy industry, to ensure that tourist businesses continue to operate, to protect jobs and to redeem the success we have had with the management of the pandemic. We are a safe tourist destination. We have a plan, we implement it and we invite everyone to visit Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u247	The Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, has the floor for twelve minutes now. Here comes Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed with great interest the position of the Secretary-General and have held two points. First of all, the importance - we will all agree on this - tourism for growth, for our economy, for the regions of our country, for labour. He said the State Secretary that such a national objective would also require a national effort. I would, however, conclude here, Mr Secretary, that this national effort requires a clear national plan for tourism, its presentation, its respective dialogue with social groups, bodies, stakeholders and, of course, the corresponding social dialogue in this House. We still haven't seen this plan. The second thing I kept from your speech is that you made one, in a way, a comparison between the position of colleagues in the Co-Population and the Civilian Repression Officer, saying that there is a gap. Here I agree with you. There's a gap. It is also political philosophy, that is the concept and that of the proposals which we have been constantly making since the beginning of this unprecedented crisis. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are already on the next day. We don't plan what needs to be done next day. And yes, it is unprecedented what we are living at, no one will deny this, and that is why you have seen that we as a Dedicated Opposition, but also all the parties of Anti-Population in the health strand from the very first time we have put human life ahead with particular responsibility and seriousness. From there on, however, it is our democratic duty, it is not populism, it is not a sterile opposition, it is our democratic duty to come and highlight the omissions, mistakes and make proposals. And that's what we do systematically. Because, you know, at the moment the climate that exists outside this Chamber, on this next day that we have passed is condensed in the following words: anxiety, anxiety, uncertainty. Because we are all aware of and are already living the immediate consequences, economic and social, but we are seeing long-term ones in front of us. We see a grim development in the future. And when we heard that Prime Minister Mitsotakis was going to present his proposals, as regards the next day, even though the government, in the first stage of the restrictive measures, was relentless, it was fragmentary and, in many respects, particularly at work, we were also very critical, we expected to present a plan. So what have we seen from the presentation of 'cooperation' euphemistically, as this project was called? First of all, we have seen, as far as labour is concerned, that this great crisis is taking place in order to achieve the complete dismantling of labour relations. It's what we said from the first moment of this Step. In fact, then, you had been raped by many colleagues from the Communism to accuse us of having a populism we said that the measures taken at work would be permanentized. And that's what's happening now. Measures shall be permanent. Indeed, after October, the situation will be even worse when it comes to the lack of protection and the possibility of continuous redundancies. I come to the second point from the programme presented by the Prime Minister. Instead of there being such support in the real economy, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in liquidity, in direct payments, and all that is self-evident, we have seen the perception of the immunity of the herd to the economy still prevail. The logic is: whoever can handle it. And of course, we have seen indifference for small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, this is also about our bill, because it is also about small and medium-sized tourism. It is regional Greece, which is based on how this whole process of tourism will develop. It's the food industry. And there, we saw that perception. Indeed, because we hear the opposing side that this is what SYRIZA only says, this is not what the rest of Europe does, I would refer you to the recent - I think yesterday or the other day - a report by the European Commission, which clearly states in what means that the Greek economy needs liquidity, in particular, for small and medium-sized enterprises and labour support. The European Commission also adds that public intervention and forward public investment are needed. The European Commission, Mr Ministers, is, of course, neither SYRIZA nor left-wing socialists. But this is the current component of the rest of Europe, unfortunately not of our country. So we come and say: How do all this reflect in all this debate that is taking place today, as far as tourism is concerned? First of all, it is true that in such a debate, we would expect there to be a clear picture and priorities for tourism. We have, however, seen that in the last two days, those who have come out and expressed their concern and concern are not just the MPs of the Opposition, but the operators of tourism. Whatever news release you've been watching, on whatever show they're on, the businessmen of focus, tourism, the agents, and racing. They ask, on what terms will this process take place and what really support will be, what the framework will be. Because for the health protocol, I heard what you said, that an effort was made at European level. I wrote it down. Here, we're not to ignore what's going on. On the other hand, it is possible, at the moment, to have a truly sustainable plan, so that we can overcome this very difficult summer that we have before us, with all the consequences that this will have for the regions, for the workers, for our islands, for the Greek economy, without the industry itself knowing what the conditions will be on which it is called to invest, prepare for it? It can't be done. Of course, this is not the case, without going beyond the health protocols and the wider health framework, as far as the islands are concerned, how airports will operate. We're waiting today for you to tell us. We haven't heard that yet. We have heard in general how important tourism is. But you won't disagree, Mr. Ministers, with this. Also, there is a concern of employees in tourism, which you know are specific. It's a seasonal labour force. You're saying we're the only ones who bring the agony here. Why don't you listen to them? Why do you say that it is populism that we carry, as do other opposition parties? Today, how many workers' gatherings have expressed this anxiety everywhere? There is the agony of the islands, of the regions. What do you say? We, therefore, expect, today, Minister, at the closure of this process, to have specific answers on all of this. That is not enough in general terms. In this gloomy future and in the prospect of a deep recession, which we will increasingly go into if the government refuses now, not because it has been surprised by the pandemic, but because it has an opinion and refuses to take measures, which are interventionist liquidity, support, guarantees that can really support the real economy as a whole, small and medium-sized enterprises, work and tourism, we know that all these problems are ahead. Here too, I would like to make a comment. Because Mr Mitsotakis, like the government as a whole, is finally covered by the pandemic to justify the problems that existed in the economy by your own governance. Because, of course, the recession is not a product now. Of course, now it is multiplying and will deepen even further while you are not taking the appropriate measures. You know, however, very well that the slowdown had already begun since the end of 2019, when the SYRIZA government in July delivered a growth in the country at a rate of 2.8% and at the moment - at the end of December, we were officially talking about it here in the budget - was at 1%. So as far as tourism is concerned and precisely because this national effort you mentioned is crucial, we are waiting today for you to tell us the main priorities and in any case in the next few days to clarify - if you are not ready yet - the issue of protocols. You still need to take a clear position. Because I have also heard my dear colleague, Mr Lebanese, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, say that there is no money in order to have a package of internal tourism. But, clearly, Mr Levane, there is this possibility. It is a matter of choices and allocations in terms of funding for this crisis. Here is the difference we have around these issues. Because of the great 24 billion, which create expectations and a general debate, ultimately - we discussed it with our colleague Nikos Pappas, who is our partner on development issues - it is a question of whether 2 billion have fallen over the last four to five weeks, in the real economy, businesses and workers. So why not? You should explain this to us, both financially and financially, because there is no provision for a package of internal tourism. It won't solve the problem. The problem is very serious. At least, however, it can give a very important breath to small and medium-sized tourism enterprises and to workers on the islands and, in general, to all our tourist regions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the environment, culture, our heritage, historical and cultural culture is not a luxury. It is the essence, not just of our identity, but of a sustainable and long-term tourism policy. If these are not in design and if we do not respect them, we simply trim the branch that sits on Greek tourism. And because our rapporteur, Mrs Notopoulou, has made a detailed presentation of all these issues, and Mr Famelos, too, spoke of the forest part and the rest, I will close up with the subject of the whole archaeology. And I'm going to speak politically and legally. I think it is very wrong what you are bringing, Minister. And you know I appreciate you. All these years we've known each other. The specific provisions are wrong. Here, there is a flagrant violation of Articles 18 and 24 of the Constitution. The management and placement of marine zones and the issues of their maritime archaeology may not be managed and controlled by individuals. You'll find it in front of you. You will find it in front of you the next day of the law being passed in the Council of State and in a series of appeals. I even invite you now, this point to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, for she was very time-consistent. The reason for the SYRIZA MP, Mr. Panos Skouriakos, is seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to speak of the specific form of tourism such as diving tourism and, more specifically, of the one that has been mentioned in the field of single archaeology. It is old and well-known that the non-functional attempts by the New Democracy to organise a reliable divestment tourism framework. We remind L. 3409/2005 and the amendments to Articles 11 of L.4179/2013 and Article 13 of L.4296/2014. Where did these attempts end up? In the complete failure of diving parks, as well as the cancellation of the visitability of the archaeological sites. And that is not what opposition SYRIZA is doing, but it is something that he admits in the explanatory memorandum to this bill brought to Parliament by the New Democracy. If one keeps one of those 2014 programming contracts, it is the New Democracy's scheduling insistence to cancel the public dimension and assign to individuals, through local government, the commercial exploitation of the archaeological sites. The example is Methoni and Pylos, who are at random in the constituency of the then Prime Minister, in 2014. Yes, what a coincidence! General Secretary in the period 2009-2014 was the current Minister of Culture. We must therefore charge her the responsibility for the failed divestment framework at that time. So the New Democracy is coming back today to correct, I imagine, things. But it is lucky that SYRIZA has the opportunity to rely on the great work that SYRIZA has done in the period that he was running. The SYRIZA government has stopped privatising the archaeological sites. With steady and practical steps, firstly, he organised a new framework for programming contracts that found implementation, for example, in the Sporades area of Pagasitikos with the fertile cooperation of the Ministry of Culture, the Region of Thessaly and the relevant municipalities. At the same time, the BLUEMED programme has been successfully run and completed with fourteen partners from five Mediterranean countries. The participation of the Department of Culture of the Ministry of Culture in "BLUEMED" was pre-funded, which was provided by the Public Investment Program, thus substantiating the practical recognition by the Ministry of Culture of the times and the Ministry of Development of the important prospects of the modern archaeology. This programme dealt with issues relating to the operation of site visits. Also under BLUEMED, the preliminary work on organising and preparing the site's visitability was carried out, and studies on seaboards, on submarine signs in collaboration with the University of Patras, on visual monitoring of sites in collaboration with the National Technical University of Athens. Thus, following on from what was done in the governance of SYRIZA, this year will be piloting for the first time a visiting archaeological site. It is the famous shipwreck of Peristeras in Alonissos, perhaps the most important shipwreck of the classical period with three thousand winemakers. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture with the governance of SYRIZA proceeded with the elaboration of an update of the legislative framework of the visiting archaeological sites in order to make it operational and applicable. In addition, we explicitly predicted the full supervision of diving service providers and dived visitors by the competent services of the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, there was provision for determining the payment of a fee, that is to say, payment to the Ministry of Culture for the underwater visit, as is the case for the land archaeological sites. At the same time, we have worked out a solution for the great problem of the distance of three nautical miles from the diving parks in the traditional archaeological sites. What I mentioned is only a few of what SYRIZA left as a dowry right now to you. It doesn't allow time to expand. You keep some of them, but at the same time you have significant deficiencies in critical points. You are returning to the obsolete and failed idea of the concession of archaeological sites and monuments to private individuals at a time when the model applied by the SYRIZA government with the services of the Ministry of Culture has already yielded fruit. For the Articles 1 and 14 at issue, we have been placed. I will not insist, despite the need for decisive intervention. As we have already pointed out, there is an issue of unconstitutionality in Articles 24 and 18. Minister, I understand that as much as functionally and successfully as SYRIZA's policy has left behind in the diving tourism area, you will insist on your well-established monolithic views regarding the exploitation of antiquities and the natural environment. Every article in your bill shows the depreciation of the public sector and the depository of the operation of a market which, unfortunately, is unconditional and bound to any government, cannot go any further. Finally, it oppresses the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. You have already taken a great lesson, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. At the time of COVID -19, when we are living a significant pillar of the public, it has endured. I mean obviously the public health system, the public hospitals and their staff. I mean those workers that the health officer was in the opposition said he was gonna fire them. Do You Remember? "X" cried out of this Step. I mean these public hospitals that today's MPs told you then how they should be shut down and how their interlocutor favored them by saying that they should be demolished. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, real life gave you a lesson. Do not discard. Apply it to the bill under discussion. Keep the visiting sites of the aerial antiquities in the absolute ownership and control of the Greek people. Don't give them the best time in private interests. It's not all communication. You won't get out of communication. Finally, I would like to refer to something that has something to do with this. At the same time as artists were outside and yelling yesterday in the squares, the Prime Minister went to the National Theatre to attend the 'Press' rehearsal, showing that he was interested in artists, when hundreds of artists were in front of the Ministry of Culture, in front of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u251	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u252	I am done, Mr President, and thank you. It's not all communication. It's not everything. Be interested in the real problems seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u253	Until the Step is ready and before I give the floor to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, in order to present it with a general number of 311 and a special number of 4 amendments, which were distributed a moment ago, I would like to say just two words. This amendment, which the Minister has been promoting for a long time, was also discussed at the Conference of Presidents yesterday, by the way, because it was placed in the bill that will come to discuss with the PPP on Monday. All parties agreed, because this is a matter that regulates the payment of workers, they were positive and contributed to the speeding up of this process in order to vote today to promote the work of the Scaramaga and Elefsina shipyard workers. Minister, you have the floor, and I thank you very much for this amendment and as a Member of the West Attica Region, which I have been serving for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. I also know your sensitivity, your effort, your anxiety to resolve this issue. I wish that it would be arranged once and for all, but in any case what needs to be done is to extend the contracts governing these two shipyards, a different extension for each shipyard, as I will explain. From that point on, we need to see how we can solve the problem completely and overall, because that is our intention too. So I come here, as has been pointed out, ladies and gentlemen, to support Amendment No 311/4 introduced in this bill, for which, as I hear - and I am glad to hear that - there is also a cross-party consensus to vote in favour. This amendment is made up of two provisions. The first relates to the Scaramaga shipyards and the programme concerning the completion of work on four submarines of the Hellenic Navy and the maintenance of these accompanying ships, and this is a six-month extension to the current situation. The second provision of this amendment relates to the Elefsina shipyards and the construction of the two torpedoes which are still to be built on behalf of the Hellenic Navy. The extension given there is three months. I note that since 1 April, when the previous extensions have been made, the thousands of five hundred - and more - workers on both shipyards have been somehow in the air and are reasonably concerned and struggling. We had early formulated our intention to extend some of the extensions. From there, however, speaking on behalf of the Ministry of National Defence and the Armed Forces, our concern - both personnel and the Ministry - is to provide a solution to the outstandingities that exist in these shipyards, especially the Elefsina Shipyard and the Navy, to pick up two ships whose construction has been delayed very much and which is absolutely needed, especially at this time. The Scaramaga shipyard is therefore granted a six-month extension until 30 September 2020. This cost, which is broken down into the cost of employees' wages, insurance costs and the operating costs of the shipyard, amounts to EUR 20,1 million, while the Elefsina shipyards are granted an extension to the existing contract, which I would remind you has suffered three extensions so far, as the ships should have been completed, shipped and delivered to the Hellenic Navy since June 2018 and with various delays this is not the case. The extension, therefore, expires on 30 June of this year and the money that the Hellenic Navy has to pay to the workers of the Elefsina shipyards amount to EUR 3,375 000, again for payroll costs, insurance contributions and industrial costs for the operation of the Elefsina shipyard. That is why we are giving the Scaramaga shipyards six months and three at Elefsina Shipyards. So I'm rushing to answer. The Scaramaga shipyards are carrying out the construction and maintenance work on submarines of the Navy, on the four latest type 214, absolutely essential, as you can see, to the Armed Forces and possibly differentiate factor in power correlations in the Aegean Sea. Other marine surface vessels are also maintained, as well as accompanying ships for these submarines. The flow of work is smooth and lasts. It is essential for the Navy, and that is why the extension given there is a six-month period. The Elefsina shipyards are a little different. As I have said, there is the completion of the construction of two torpedoes under a contract concluded, based on a tripartite agreement between the Hellenic Navy, the administration and ownership of the Elefsina shipyard and the workers. This contract provided that the two torpedoes would have surrendered in June 2018. For a number of reasons, which are not here to analyse, there have been repeated delays. The twenty-nine months during which the two torpedoes would be completed, apparently not enough and three extensions emerged. The first was until 1 June 2019 - one year, i.e. - the second until September 2019 - that is, six months - and the third until March 2020 - that is, for another six months. The torpedo under number ‘6’, that is, the former, is almost complete. The Navy declares that it can carry out the few tasks left with its own forces and, as you can see, given the urgent need for this ship to be received and enlisted operationally to the forces of the Navy, we have decided to give this three-month extension so that on the basis of what has been agreed, at the most - at the beginning of June - this ship to be delivered to the Navy, to complete it at 100%. It is currently at an integral rate of about 95%. I mean, it's just a little left. At the same time, as regards the seventh torpedo, i.e. the last that the Elefsinos shipyards have undertaken to build, more work remains to be done. However, this ship remains under the responsibility - if I may say so - of the Elefsina shipyard and if the workers are concerned that they will be left unworked, that is the answer, that they will not be left unworked, since they will be able to deal with the work uninterruptedly, at the rapid pace required by the situation and circumstances, but also by the seventh torpedo. It therefore receives the Navy - and it is part of the agreement which is reflected in this amendment tabled - the torpedo under number 6, which is almost complete and remains the last under number '7' torpedoes, in order to continue its construction at Elefsina Shipyards and, if possible, the workers not only continue to work on a ship that is absolutely necessary in the Hellenic Navy, but also to see what else we will do, given that there are some proposals at the investment table for Elefsina Shipyards. But this is a completely different case. It's a case that doesn't handle the Department of National Defence. The Ministry of National Defence shall act on behalf of defending the interests of the Armed Forces. And the ultimate interest of the Armed Forces right now requires that the Navy take the ships it necessarily needs. That is why this amendment is tabled for six months for an extension for Scaramaga, to which the submarines and associated ships are maintained and three months for Elefsina, in order to complete the construction of one of the two torpedoes and to continue the construction of the other. The ownership of the shipyard will, of course, submit a plan for the timetable of the work on the construction of the seventh torpedo. This will be done within the days. In any case, however, so that this uncertainty does not continue to exist for the workers - who, incidentally, are waiting for and paid - that is why this amendment has been quickly tabled to the draft legislation which is being discussed today, so that even two - three days, we can speed up. Their anguish is reasonable and perfectly justified. From that point on, we need to see how we go then. Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the content of the amendment and I call on you - as I understand that this is the mood in this House - to vote in favour of it, in order to solve the problem that has arisen since there too, to see how we can solve it as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u255	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu as Parliamentary representative of the Change Movement has asked for the floor on the amendment, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. I won't talk for more than three minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u257	I would also like to say that from what I see it is the only person present at the moment who was at yesterday's Conference of Presidents who discussed this issue. Colleagues can ask their representative at the Conference of Presidents and they will see that what I said is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, you too, as a participant in the conference, can be informed. We welcome the first time that the conference was preceded by another debate in the Committee on Informatics, where we have indeed called for these two amendments to be brought to the draft legislation which will be discussed this week and not the next week, in order to make the wages due to the workers uninterruptedly paid, but to ensure their work for the next period, and, of course, to ensure that the interests of the Hellenic Navy, the Greek State, are also safeguarded with regard to the issues that have to do with national defence. But this is where the good ends. From that point on, I must say that we have not only asked for them to come, but we will be voting on them - to say that the problem is greater - the Minister said so - not only is it resolved by an amendment from the Ministry of Defence, even in cooperation with the ministries. It needs more active intervention. For example, on the question of Elefsinas Shipyards, this method was chosen in 2017-2018 as a last resort for not having the worst. But the country's national defence has suffered a huge damage. The delay for two years, which has already happened, is a huge damage suffered by the national defence. Nothing's happened. And he says, "What if it had happened?" And I say: But we will not go on the basis of each individual's irresponsibility to meet his contractual obligations, as he should have. That is why, Minister, I would invite you, following our positive support for the two amendments, to take the initiative with the Minister of Finance to ensure the interests of the Greek State. The private share in Elefsina Shipyards had already to be committed by the Greek State. We have this proposal that the Greek State should claim its rights for the damage it has already suffered, for the inconsistency of the individual, who, as far as I know, is not so much interested in safeguarding the interests of the workers or the interests of the Greek State. Workers are the first, along with national defence, of course, to be a priority for everyone. We will support every initiative in this direction. But we expect it to be taken over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u259	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u260	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u261	I will not go far, Mr President. Thanks for the minute you give me. Look, the fact that we want to signal that something changes in the whole treatment of this story results, I think, in the smallest extension we are giving. If, as has been done so far, just another six-month extension, I am very afraid that it would have elapsed in this period and after six months - in fact, because the two of us have already eaten them, since they have been given 1 April 2020 - we would have come here to see that the ships have not yet been delivered, that a percentage has been completed perhaps higher, the sixth has gone to 98%, the latter has gone from 60% to 70%, but again the same. The fact that we want to push in all directions and give the signal that time is running out and that we cannot go through the same procedures, with the same logic from now on, reflects the fact that we are giving a three-month extension. I hope in this period, which has already been running since the beginning of April, that the contacts and negotiations that need to be held, not with us participants, but between the ownership of the Elefsina Shipyards and the one who is interested in investing in them - as we hear and go out - will be able to reach an agreement. This debate, however, and this initiative today, has nothing to do with charging responsibility for what has happened so far. Let's change what has been done so far and give a definitive solution to a problem that has evolved a little in a 'gord bond' in some way and we have to - in fact we have to resolve, break some 'gords' ties, which have to do with the way our defence industry has been doing so far. Otherwise, it can't be done. We are forced by the circumstances to speed up, run and look for solutions. Talking about the possibility of an investor coming is not about the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence is the client, as I have said in this Chamber, and indeed a customer who is too late to receive the products he is currently waiting for from these shipyards. However, I do not want to divert this debate into a tax-free and iso-planning debate on liability-sharing etc. I want to believe that this period will be capable of progressing. This conversation doesn't go hand in hand with the Ministry of National Defence. The Ministry of National Defence, however, has every interest in monitoring it with anguish for the future. Our aim is for the Scaramaga and Elefsina Shipyards to enter a new era from which the seafarer will only have things to benefit, and for the country by extension, because a change of image to the two shipyards has, if you like, a development impact and not just an impact that has on our armed forces and our national defence. And if everything goes well - we will do everything we can to go well - they could signal these interventions, this period of change to the best, as I said, with positive consequences for the national economy. However, for the time being, let us be content with supporting these amendments which give an extension of life. But, as I have repeatedly said, time is running out. So those who listen and those who are interested in this debate take this into account. Time is running out. So let them speed up what they are discussing and what they are negotiating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u262	Before I call on Mr Andrianos to close this debate, I should just like to say as a Member for many years in the region, Mr Kegeroglou, and for your information that this issue is going on in the area at a very satisfactory pace and that the process of restoring normality in the operation of the Eleusis Shipyards, which was launched by the previous government, is at a very good stage in order to find a solution. We're at a good stage. That is what the Minister for Development and Investment handles. Mr. Andrian has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. It is a very important step and a positive sign of the specific amendment of the Ministry of National Defence, because the Navy at the moment really needs the ships built in the two shipyards and this amendment will complete the work, as the Minister of National Defence said, but at the same time the workers in the two shipyards are being supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic crisis has created new data throughout the planet. Human lives were lost, health systems were tested, millions of people suddenly left without work, living habits changed from one moment to another. The whole planet has been faced with a health crisis, a health challenge that has been unprecedented for many decades in terms of its size and intensity. Governments around the world had to make difficult weightings, prioritise priorities, evaluate chances, but also ensure a smooth return to normality. In the context of this extremely difficult treaty Greece managed to accept today the credit of experts and to be an international example to be imitated, thanks to the responsibility of the citizens, thanks to the government's readiness, thanks to the authoritative and timely advice of experts, thanks to the conscientiousness of health professionals who fought the front line. So we were given the opportunity to reverse the very negative international picture that our country had just a few years ago. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the overwhelming majority of Greeks and Greeks, regardless of ideological advances and electoral preferences, feels relief today that at this extremely difficult time at the wheel of the country lies the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy, especially considering the alternatives. We are, of course, all alert and vigilant. We continue to listen to the experts and unreservedly keep their counsel and instructions. At the same time, however, we are seriously and responsibly working on the quickest, most comprehensive and dynamic recovery of our national economy from the consequences of the pandemic. In this direction tourism, the 'heavy industry', as we usually say, in our country, is one of the sectors that has been hit the heaviest. Businesses find it difficult to reopen, workers lose their jobs, while side effects are already visible to the entire local economies of the tourist regions. So, against this reality, the government's policy is right and responsibly moving on three lines at the same time: firstly, to take all the necessary measures to support businesses and workers until they return to normality. Secondly, the careful opening up of the economy and the capitalisation of the global very positive image acquired by our country as a secure quality destination. Thirdly, in modernising the institutional framework for tourism development, so that we can make even more effective use of this huge comparative advantage. That is the logic of the bill we are discussing today. It is a bill that simplifies procedures, eliminates bureaucratic obstacles, covers gaps in existing legislation and creates conditions for dynamic enhancement of the tourism sector. The constant aim of our national strategy is to attract quality tourism, to extend the tourist season, to increase the visibility of all this, and of course, with respect for the environment, culture and the history of our country. To achieve this, we must, among other things, be pioneers in terms of the regulatory environment. It is characteristic that in diving tourism the first step was taken with Law 3409/2005 by the government of Kostas Karamanlis, as the Minister of Tourism said in his speech to the committee, but so far the necessary next steps have not been taken at the moment when competing countries have been dynamically active in this area. So the bill implements best practices, adapted to the needs of our country. It strengthens diving tourism, i.e. creates new categories of tourism products, which are aimed at new and dynamic commons, dismantles regulatory ambiguity in spatial planning, introduces a valuable interministerial advisory body, which will examine global developments in the sector and respond quickly to them. It is a very positive step. I would like to refer here to another positive step, the amendment by the Minister of the Interior, Takis Theodorikos, which supports the focus and regulates the increase in the number of bank seats in the focus, which has been so affected by the pandemic, without paying any extra fees. Ladies and gentlemen, like all of us in this Chamber, I hear every day the voice of anxiety from people in my place, in Argolida and throughout the country, who have been in this pandemic from one moment to the next in a difficult position. At the same time, however, I see the hope and optimism created by the image of the seriousness, responsibility and effect of the current government. As the Prime Minister pointed out, the waters are unpapered. But, with confidence, we are doing what needs to be done, strengthening our institutional patronage for development and social cohesion, making responsible use of our many and important comparative advantages, such as tourism, by showing practical solidarity with those who have been hardest hit by this trial. We are creating the strong foundations that will allow us to get out of this adventure stronger, as a state, as a society and as a economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr Adriane, for he was very time-consuming too. We continue with Mr. Antonis Mylonakis from the Greek Solution for seven minutes and then he is Mr. Kriton Arsenis, as a Parliamentary spokesman, from Mera25. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with what the Minister of National Defence said earlier - we discussed it, as Mr Kegeroglu said in the Committee on Equipment the other day - and it concerns you, Mr Minister. This awkwardness of the Greek governments, the government to support workers and businesses. If in this House - which is admittedly a parliament that tries, with proposals - and with regard to our side, the Greek Solution, we cannot put a order on these things, they will never enter. It can't be that a defensive industry doesn't have a head. There was once the State Secretary for Defence Industry, a State Secretary. There's nothing. It's an undisturbed vine. Be careful, mentality: Every little and little we take extensions to complete a project that should have been completed for two years, the torpedoes, the submarines have not been completely received by the Navy yet, we have a subject in which the workers are not paid. In other words, since March the worker and his family have been paid before. And if we all didn't mean to come here urgently to get the signature of the House, to get these people paid, they wouldn't be paid. Are these attitudes? Be careful to see what's going on with S.O.D. Tomorrow there will be an MDG - why, Minister, usually with MDG time going through with the government - an article of which it will say? To be paid. Watch Mr. Stakoura's mentality. A few months ago, a few months ago, he cut off the unhealthy allowance from ODA workers, 10%, and now he is forced by an article, by means of a provision, that this thing should be brought back to pay again to stop the strike. We have aircraft, we have F-16. Nothing's started. We have the subject of transport. Zero! What are we gonna do? Helicopters, same. This thing has never happened before. So indifference! We have, Minister, your seasonals now. At the Ministry of Tourism about four hundred thousand employees are waiting to work now in the summer -- aren't they? - to be able to enter the unemployment fund tomorrow. All this time these people will not work or a large percentage will not work. What are they gonna do? Will they be able in winter to live their family? Will they be able to enter the unemployment fund? Something needs to be done with these people too. Watch out now: I'm saying these, because, okay, we're talking about diving tourism, but you've brought things over here that are saying and we've come from Mars: Diving tourism, we're talking about air, parametals, beaches. I don't know what we're gonna do. We'll do it all. We're laughing at what we're gonna do. As my colleague from Katerini said, we will bring in and sink into the deep statues, and we will bring a boat inside, which will be airbornely closed, and take a walk. All right, we're gonna do this. Come see now what is going on with the 'SURE' programme, ladies and gentlemen, which we have been through this way and the only one who has dealt with it and what I will say next with Evros is Kyriakos Velopoulos, the President of Greek Solution. The 'SURE' programme, which will be for two, three, four months, with some 1.9 billion from the European Union, what does it say? 'Organise, ladies and gentlemen, half-wage work - half-wages'. Listen to mentality! Already business - and it has been calling us today a lot of people since last afternoon that we have completed this programme, it is assumed, which the Prime Minister said the day before - is saying 'you will be working for fifteen days'. Yes, sir. Fifteen days, 700 euros. Take 350 euros. The remaining 350 euros? You'll get 60% of the 350 euros. In other words, since the 700 euros he was receiving a worker, he will be able to get 520-530 euros. That's the attitude. So we have to get used to it, as Mr Staikoras said, the Minister of Finance last night when I watched him on SCAI's television. He said: 'Unfortunately, the income of the workers will be reduced'. How much longer, then, will the income of the workers shrink? Where will it be? So we have to get used to it slowly because once this 'SURE' programme has been completed - and 'MURE' and 'PURE'! - the European Union, will start living at EUR 500 out of 700. I'm fine! 'Customize', he says, 'I don't have any more money'. And tell you something else, which people might not know about? If you'd like to ask, Mr. Ministers, the EFCA. Take a call to the FBI. What's wrong with the black hole right now for this year? He's got 653 million. Where's he going to get them? Soon you will tell us that pensioners must also cut off 10%, a 15%, since the worker lost 17% against Mr Stavoura. As far as ours is concerned, as we discuss with the committee ours in Greek Solution is over 20%, isn't it? It's over 20%. So he won't lose 10% of the retired? Very good. We've done it all. Pensioners, workers and people who are toil and work, nothing. Our weapon systems remain low. And the Minister comes, Mr. Dendias - good time of man wherever he is at this moment - to say the unimportant word: 'For a few tens of earth to rise the world now?' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The Turks have made a headline. There's a probation order. Let's all go for a walk, it's worth it to the Ferries to see what's going on. The Asian Delta has two to three islands inside. During the winter months are, of course, the islands, which appear a little bit. In the summer months this island, Minister, is a government, which is why I am addressing you - is sixteen and a half acres. For those who don't know how many are sixteen and a half acres, it's six and a half thousand square meters. And these lands are cultivable. Take good care! Is it possible that twenty - five - thirty noblemen, military guards and soldiers have entered our island? Have you heard what happened in 1983 and 1986 at the Carbon, etc., that we have shed blood for these "isidoluses" some say? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] What are these things? So, we went in here to help us, and you're going to drive us crazy? Should we take pills every day to be calm? That's not happening! All right, ours here, Minister, for the bill, I think the parliamentary representative and our rapporteur have said it in detail. Now, if you think this bill is for the Greeks, you're wrong. If you want to tell the truth it's for the elite, two - three businessmen will close - if you go to Rhodes you will see that hotels are one by one - the whole coast, there will be no inch of a measure to cross the man and it's fine! Do you remember what happened to Matty? Something like that. Now it's going to be legal. The other will build a large plant in a forest, and after a while when it is closed, the forest will remain deaf. That's what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u266	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u267	I shall conclude, Mr President. I don't think he's got any luck with this bill. It's a bill like all the last. I don't know, you've been caught by a maniac pursuit with the bills. "Argi, bourgeois and saliva", bring them here to the parliament, five nobles in here. "Following" he says. What plenary? Five nomads! Anyway. Once again, the Greek solution to certain articles, which are in the interest of the Greek people, will be seen and voted on, but in principle no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u268	The Houseary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arsenis has the floor for twelve minutes. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, your parliamentary representative has addressed a number of questions. He said it's not meant to privatize the archaeological sites. But in his argument, unfortunately, he seemed to reveal the return. He told us that because there is not enough staff, the ancient shipwrecks will be given to individuals who will pay a price. So what did he say? That you intend to rent these archaeological sites. That's actually it. This is not only contrary to the Constitution, but also contrary to the archaeological law. And because it has already been mentioned and said that it is my personal, as Mera25, the opposition again to repeat that it is the opposition expressed by the Association of Greek Archaeologists, workers in the aeronautics and many other institutions. If today due to a lack of staff we rent the archaeological archaeological sites in private, tomorrow with the same logic as a lack of staff we may rent Epidaurus, Acropolis, Delphi, Knossos. And you know? You are creating a acquis. You'll tell us tomorrow that after we've already done this for marine archaeological sites, what's the difference? It is precisely this acquis that you must avoid building with this law. And I will not just mention what the archaeologists have said. I will read you a sentence: 'The government must understand that the country's political reserve is not being sold. Our monuments are not traded. Let him do what the Constitution requires immediately." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is Mrs Kefaliannis' statement that when together with all of us were attacked by the then government of SYRIZA that was passing monuments to the Ultrast for use. But what he didn't finally make a SYRIZA government, because of the mass reaction, you guys start. And you'll be the ones who have the stigma. It's not just the Constitution that protects the ancients. Article 7 of the archaeological law, as amended by Articles 123 of Law 4611/2019, which came after all this story with SYRIZA and monuments from TIPED, the Supreme Court, clearly stipulates that ownership, administration and management of real estate monuments and organized archaeological sites belong to the public and are things off-trafficking. Hence what your Parliamentary spokesman said and which records your bill also violates the law itself, Mr.4611. In other words, concession in exchange for archaeological sites is illegal in all respects. If you want to promote diving tourism in the aerial antiquities, there is one way to do it. It's actually happening. At the moment we already have a space in Alonissos - it is Peristera Alonissos - the most important classic shipwreck, where last year pilots this archaeological site with the archaeologists of the Ministry of Culture manage this site. They have prepared routes, submarine plates, a submarine surveillance system with cameras installed in the shipwreck for his safety. And this is done in collaboration with the Region of Thessaly. There are bilateral comments to international media, and this year it opens to the public for two whole months. So, if you want to do something, you can strengthen the department's staff. Obviously, not you, Mrs Mendoni, who is absent from the whole process, on a subject that changes the landscape in archaeology and culture in Greece. The concession of ancient monuments to private individuals will not pass. It's going to fall into the Council of State. But since I really maintain the hope that this has been a mistaken one, since you do not want to violate the law and if you do not want to give, rent to private archaeological sites, start this procedure that puts Greece at great risk, we invite you together with all the bodies who requested it in the hearing to withdraw paragraph 3 of Article 6, the last subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 13, the last subparagraph of Article 13, the last subparagraph of paragraph 6 of Article 13. Withdraw, at least at the last minute, to show that you are not in favour of privatising antiquities. Also, Minister, withdraw the provisions that allow the building in the forests to serve golf courses. It is something that obviously violates the Constitution, because it allows for forest construction, so it does not protect forests. It is something that you add to a law that should have already been withdrawn from both you and the SYRIZA Government, the 2014 Act. And I think it's really going in the wrong direction. As you know as Minister of Tourism, our visitors in this country come for monuments and the environment, for this unparalleled beauty, which we have managed to maintain in some areas of our country. We must not make it a sacrifice bill - a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr Arsenis, for saving time for the whole process. And I invite Mrs Panagiota (Nonis) Dunia from New Democracy for seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill by the Ministry of Tourism, which seeks to modernise the institutional framework of tourism, of course always with the required respect for the environment, and to make Greece one of the top destinations internationally, a destination that will provide its visitors with many different and modern alternatives. It is important that we are talking about tourism in today's extremely difficult time to deal with COVID -19, at a very critical time for our country, for Greek tourism in particular, a period that has necessarily frozen for the protection of public health, whatever tourist movement, since, of course, they have closed or lifted their start-up local accommodation, focus businesses and all forms of tourism and, of course, has made us understand the value of tourism for the economy and the development of our country. The Government of New Democracy, recognizing the size of this value, has set up a comprehensive, coherent plan to save this summer's season. Under this plan, on 1 June the campsite, camps and hotels are expected to open and the rest of the accommodation will be opened by 15 June. Let me briefly refer to the major blow that has been suffered by the pandemic of tourism, both domestic and imported, in the islands of the Argosaron. Despite the necessary security margins, these islands are a very good choice for all of us, since we can have immediate, very safe access to them privately, using our car, without the use of public transport. The accommodations available to these islands are mainly small and open-ended, such as open-ended restaurants, with customer service in outdoor areas. There are many small beaches where visitors can swim without crowding and risk of their health. The accommodation on the islands of Argosaronic islands will, of course, also dismantle the coastal zone of Attica. For these reasons, I believe that the accommodation on these islands would be reasonable and extremely safe to open up as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, an important effort is being made today to relaunch the tourist process. Such a reboot with extroversion and modern tourist products also attempts this bill, with the development of diving tourism, the introduction of developmental provisions, and the introduction of the glamping brand, a new way of luxurious camping, which brings travellers closer to nature, but without removing them from the amenities and services they need and which they usually have in a hotel. With diving tourism, our country will be directed to a more specific tourist audience who wishes to discover the Greek sea and the Greek shipwrecks. The creation of dive parks is expected to create new jobs and stimulate local economies in the region. For the organisation of this type of tourism, the Divest Tourism Council is provided for, and the conditions for divestment in diving sites are laid down and bureaucratic obstacles to recreational diving are eliminated. At the same time, the Ministry of Tourism bill introduces developmental arrangements which provide for the modernisation of the framework for integrated tourism development regions. The new regulations simplify and speed up the administrative process for a large number of issues relating to operational issues in all these areas. In addition, topics are regulated for port facilities with a view to facilitating the relevant procedures and strengthening the tourist investment activity. It is also attempting to improve the legislative framework for bathing tanks operating within tourist accommodation, of course, in the direction of strengthening public safety and protecting consumers. Very important regulations are also introduced concerning the directed markets, the guided shopping, which is intended to combat the phenomenon by providing for sanctions for anyone trying to direct tourists to specific shops of all kinds. Finally, useful modifications and supplements are made to the provisions concerning the simple use of hayalou and beaches. Amongst other things, provision is made for the free grant without consideration of the mere use of parts of the hayalus and of the beach from OTA I grades, at the request of the municipality concerned, for the placing of special structures in information and educational events, on the prevention of accidents at sea, which, unfortunately, are not small in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, for the financial support for our tourism, the government has taken important measures. For example, it decided to extend the right to suspend a contract of employment up to July, to reduce the company's rent by 40% up to August, to strengthen seasonally employees, to make a refund and to reduce the tax advance and to reduce VAT on transport, coffee, non-alcoholic products and the tourist package. At the same time, to support domestic tourism has presented programmes such as the EUR 30 million tourism programme, which will offer EUR 120 to each beneficiary for a holiday with a minimum of four nights, with the beneficiaries touching the two-five thousand already. With these measures, as well as with the general treatment of tourism as a key pillar of our development path, we look forward to a wider, modern and more quality tourism, a tourism that is addressed to all, but which meets the requirements of special commons, which will be innovative, devoid of the needs of all those involved in this sector and respect the environment and the special features of Greece. With this tourism we will make our own reboot and it is certain that we will be able to win the lost ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u272	And we thank you for the time economy. Mr Nicholas Pappas has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much, Mr President. We heard a few days ago the government's announcements about the economy. Sadly, beyond their inadequacy, they were also persecuted with a lie, which seems to play a fundamental role in the way New Democracy would like people to understand things and developments from now on. Mr Mitsotakis and his ministers said that the coronary met Greece at the time of growth and blooming - and that is not the case. It is quite obvious that this is not the case. And the figures of employment and exports had fallen, and industrial production had fallen and retail trade was falling and these were the results of your own policy, and unfortunately the coronary found us at this very stage. Ironically historical is not that, if you look at ELSTAT's data, employment in Greece peaks in the last month of SYRIZA's governance. From there and then the bending begins. Employment, when we became government, was at three and a half million and in June 2019 had approached the four million. This is our great historical deposit, which you are unable, because of your ideas and policies, to protect. Unfortunately - and I am sorry to say this - there is no sense of urgency here. The international press has been stumbling for months that Greece has been at the top of the risk in relation to the effects of the coronary for two reasons, Mr Theochari. Because of the great dependence on tourism and the large number of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Commission comes in and confirms that Greece has the greatest difference between autumn and spring forecasts. This is where the world of tourism expects us to hear something and we come and tell him that VAT will be reduced in the orangeade and we will also strengthen the social tourism programme, 30 or 70 million. We don't finally understand which one's the number. Indeed, if you consider this sufficient, all we can do is testify to our surprise if that is sufficient. You have almost three hundred thousand employees on suspension in the tourism sector. One hundred and twenty thousand people said this morning the head of the OAED did not hire another three hundred thousand in the focus sector. And we come here and make speeches about diving tourism. I really think talking about the next day is a cover for those who don't want to talk about today. Now, the recession is happening right now. Tourism firms now accumulate problems. And what are we telling them? What have we told them? We're talking about a repayable advance and loans from TEIX. I'll come to these. It was heard by the State Secretary, I think, that there was no 'left' and 'right' tourism. I'm sorry, we'll disagree. Tourism, which is based on disguised employment with wages of EUR 300, is a 'right' tourism. Tourism that dissolves the environment and mortgages the future of the next generations is 'right' tourism. However, tourism, which respects both the worker and the environment and claims to restore the human relationship with the environment, is 'left', it is progressive tourism. Do you not have any examples of development that have been kicked backwards and which have had negative consequences? We are really wondering whether one of the organized operators in the industry is satisfied with what he is listening to, because we have not heard anyone. In a 24/7 in there, the place has plunged. There is no mediator shell anymore to protect your policy failure. Since the morning when we open the TVs, the people of the industry have been transferring their agony. Today we are discussing this bill and to them we have to answer what? Nothing at all. In organised entrepreneurship, incomplete measures for both workers and rotating work and wage cuts. You come now and bring in a bill, which probably doesn't respond to these problems. There was a proposal from the Central Association of Chambers of Chambers of Greece and said 1 billion euros to support tourism. What's your answer? Let us go. Okay, you think we're making a sterile opposition. How do you respond to these people? By reducing VAT on non-alcoholic products and by strengthening social tourism by 20 to 30 million. If that is not an inadequate policy, I think that words have lost the point. With the reduction of the tax advance, we will see whether and when and if. Are you going to call businesses with zero turnover to pay the tax next year and tell them in retrospect how much this reduction will be? A repayable advance. Of the two hundred and fifty-three thousand companies that applied for, the applications of fifty-three thousand were approved. You're saying it's 2 billion money in this program. It's half a billion so far. Will the season end to get the next one? TEPIX, the big mockery! Ten thousand businesses, he says, have gone there and those who go in to demand a guaranteed loan from the public, ask for extra guarantees. You have settled with the financial staff, Mr Theocharis. What did you request for businesses in tourism in relation to these programmes? Say something specific. They are businesses that are now waiting to work and have the greatest blow. None of you can say that he didn't know. The global economic community, which ranks Greece in the first risk zone, has been reached. And these people - let me tell you - are neither zombies nor batterers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President. They are people who have hurt their business, have worked and of course have suffered the problems of your own policy of indifference and the problems of the global crisis with the coronary. And a little more respect for them and the workers of the industry, it would not hurt. We can't do here that nothing is happening and we can make reasons for how in the future Greece will develop the industry, it says, diving tourism, we will fly anciently into the seas and we will also scuba diving to see them! I'm not sure you've understood what has been said by this Step! We suggested two things. Firstly, the direct support of enterprises. We said three billion. You told us it was a waste of politics. Half of them would go back to the state, half of them. We did not say that the businessman would put it in his pocket and run on vacation, but that he would be able from a closed account to serve obligations. How difficult, in other words, would it be to make such a policy, which would prevent new debts from being accumulated in companies? We have said something else, a "HERAKLE" for business. Within 30 hours you brought us to the House and voted 12 billion Greek state guarantees for banks. In thirty hours, because - he says - it was urgent. The plan goes back to 2021. In the meantime, you have admitted that he had problems of transparency. We were yelling at you and you were telling us there's nothing wrong. In the meantime you have admitted that they are inadequate and have problems of transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u274	Finish it, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u275	I shall conclude, Mr President. We tell you to make a corresponding guarantee programme for Greek businesses. At the moment banks manage the guarantees of the Greek State and keep them for their clientele "chilet", which will have access to funding anyway and simply cross the bank's door and reduce its interest rates. That's the reality. This is a tough 'right' policy on tourism, Mr Theochari. It is the policy that pushes small and medium-sized enterprises in the deadlock and opens the door to what they are kindly saying in BSE, a wave of takeovers and mergers. Here we will be and see the results of this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u276	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikos Karathanasopoulos has the floor. But you expect, Mr Karathanasopoulos, that the Step be prepared for this. Here, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u277	Thank you very much, Mr President. A phrase fits here. You are all, government and opposition, unacceptable learning. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] No, why don't you take the letters, but why you're supporting a deeply reactionary system, and that's why you're unacceptable of learning, right now there's a profound humanitarian crisis on the eve of the coronary on the eve of the world, which in the United States of America within nine weeks only thirty-eight million young unemployed have been created, when all the estimates say that in Greece the crisis will be even deeper and longer. Everyone says that. Why? Because, on the one hand, the model that you served it and SYRIZA as a previous government and, that is, the model of extroversion of the economy, is much more vulnerable to the event of a synchronised international capitalist crisis and, on the other, the effects on the Greek economy will be much stronger. Why? Because there is tourism, not generally as an economic activity, what you say about the steam engine of the economy, the heavy industry, except that this steam engine of the economy was very easily derailed six months ago by the bankruptcy of a tour operator, "THOMAS COOK" and its engine suddenly erased with the manifestation of the capitalist crisis on the occasion of pandemic. Why is that? Because in the Greek economy there is a huge imbalance, much larger, describes it embodied by the Governor of the Bank of Greece in the interim report: 'Receipts from tourism represent 8.7% of GDP, when the average in the countries of the European Union is 2.5%'. So we have a hydro-headed tourism at the expense of other economic activities. This is, therefore, the concentration of land in less hands, the change in land use, the destruction of productive activities to develop the tourism activity, very large waste of resources and infrastructure, the saturation of areas, the capacity to bring about, thus breaking up the tourist bubble. You are still insisting on this, not because you do not understand it, but precisely because this is the objective priority set by business interests, which puts great capital, because it is precisely in the tourism sector that it can be quickly reproduced, expanded reproduction and has high profit rates. With today's bill, but also with the measures proposed by the government, you are moving on that. Really, Mr. Ministers and others, are they all on the same boat in the tourism sector? Are you sure about this? And the big-timers, the big business groups and the self-employed and the professionals and workers? Are they all on the same boat? Are you sure? What does the course show? From 2009 to 2019, the years of the memoranda, tourism had a very small impact on the crisis, it had growth. The results are revealing. So what did we have? In 2009 we had fifteen million foreign tourists and in 2019 we had thirty-three million, more than doubled over a decade. Receipts of 10.5 billion reached 16 billion. Hotels are up. And especially what increased? Five - five - year - old hotels, two hundred - eighty - ten tourists reached six hundred and the small hotels of one and two stars were reduced respectively. We had profits, and on the other hand, what did we have? Who were the main losers? They were workers, where there were at the time of the growth of sixteen different forms of flexible employment, flexibility in the labour market. We had age-related racism in the hotel field, we had the huge seasonality, we had the intensification of work, the black and insecure work, we had the insecureness of apprenticeship and we had of course the various "business" offices of rental workers. That's what SYRIZA did as a government. We also had what the facts of the EVA themselves say, which are not disputed. The average gross share of hotels and catering that employ more than 10 employees in businesses in June 2011 was EUR 50,84 and in June 2018 fell to EUR 39,5 in a period of growth for tourism. Profits are increasing, workers are getting less and less rewarded with a smaller piece of pie. The self-employed, the professionals, the small family businesses were crushed. From what? From the activities of the monopoly groups, all - inclusive. They were crushed by government policy, insurance, tax, the fees they are called upon to pay and they have taken less and less of the pie. So, in other words, the pie's magnification has been fruited by only the big business groups in the tourism sector. On the other hand, what else did we have? A lot of wonderful things we had, so to be clean. The environment was subordinated, the mountain tumors, the shores, the cavalry and was a factor of profitability. EXTERNALS are creations of SYRIZA for strategic investments where the tools for spatial planning are subject to the needs of large business investment in tourism. In this respect, the environment is adapted to the needs and criteria of business groups, it is a factor of profitability, it trades in needs, and therefore creates additional exclusion problems in wider folk. A third element is the huge investment packages, which the big-time owners and large-scale business groups have thrown into from the development laws, from the various European programmes. At the same time, what does the Governor of the Bank of Greece say in his 2019 report? It reads: ‘It continues to reflect the fact that the tourism sector presents a very high proportion of non-performing loans, despite its extroversion, the upward trend of the industry and its expanded contribution to GDP’. In other words, the hotel owners, the large-scale borrowers and unscrupulously, which does not correspond to the image of the economic sizes. Of course, the various degenerative phenomena, which I do not want to waste time mentioning, at times, have manifested themselves tragically, even with deaths. I am talking about the glimpse gases, for example, or the various other degenerative situations that are created. You understand very well where this model has led, which you are defending with nails and teeth. At the same time, what did we have? Tourism, recreation, holidays were a summer night dream for workers and wide popular strata. The vast majority of people's households can't go on vacation, go to relatives or to friendly faces whenever they can. So while there are so many large units, which you speak with fine words, at the same time they cannot be approached by such units and enter in so that they can enjoy their free time if they have free time. There are few who can. In this respect, therefore, the miracle of tourism you defend was precisely based on it, on the blood sacrifices of the people and workers in the sector. From this point of view tourism may not have a color, Mr. Secretary, whether it is the liberals or parties with a left-handed staff, but it has very strong class characteristics, because its results are very specific and this image that is presented is not a question of lack of planning or of distortion. After all, this picture is defended and you are even planning the measures to deal with the consequences of the crisis, but also for the next day. Is it accidental, for example, that in the statement presented by the Ministry of Development in February 2020, the half-yearly budget, are eight major investments included in these projects, on pages 8, 9 and 10, not in the Greek, the amount of which is EUR 225 000 000? Very large investment projects, which will, of course, change the uses of land, because they extend to vast areas, which will have a problem both for free spaces and for free access, but also for other productive activities that you are destroying. From this point of view, the other package of tourists you want to create, even if you differentiate it through the different forms of tourism, the diversification of the tourist package does not shield tourism from their volatile nature. On the other hand, increasing participation of tourism in GDP will create greater imbalances, greater insecurity and will be even more vulnerable to the various crisis phenomena. The wish, therefore, to return to normality with a view and social character, as the State Secretary said, is wishful and has nothing to do with reality. Besides, what you're building here for the next day is very clean. New privileges, scandalous privileges for business groups in the tourism sector. Our rapporteur has mentioned in detail the divestment of tourism and the bill you are bringing, the concession to business, even to modern antiquities, in the name of the development of business activity. Really, Mr. Ministers, the issue of archaocapilia from where will it be protected? From the professional character of professional divers, as the Minister said in his speech to the Committee of Parliament, will the archaeological archaeological sites be protected? Will that be protected when the interests are huge? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So you are even forming the field of these kinds of phenomena to develop, such as environmental interventions, to facilitate the creation of RITs, to the areas of integrated tourism development, as are the eight projects that are part of the Ministry of Development programme I mentioned before. You are supported by liquidity financing with guarantees from business groups. He wants the government to give much more for business groups. But who really will pay these packages of financial support to business groups? People's strata through their taxation will pay them. You are subsidising the job to have cheap labour and, of course, as a "text" to support business action, you are using social tourism. You have now remembered in the crisis domestic tourism, when holidays and recreation for the people's family have become luxury, and unlike workers there are insecurity, attack on their rights and contracts of employment, unemployment, non-covering of seasonal workers from the measures that you have taken, which have not signed contracts. Christos Katsotis mentioned this issue in detail. So, with the government's measures, you do not only make it easier, but you also give more incentives to business groups. So the workers, the self-employed and the professionals who paid very much for growth in the tourism sector today are invited to pay for the management of the crisis, to return to development, accompanied by the same features of job insecurity, the concentration of the wealth produced in tourism in less and less hands, in the major investment groups. If something reveals the reactionary nature of the system you are defending is tourism or, if you like, another aspect of reactivity is the amendment that you are bringing to the Scaramaga Shipyards, where employers, although they do not fulfil their contractual obligations, use the workers as hostages to continue the state funding for projects which they do not carry out. And that's unacceptable. That is why, as a JRC, we will vote for the amendment in question, only because it concerns money to be taken by the workers, otherwise we would denounce you for the immediate support of employers, even though they do not comply with their contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u278	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u279	I shall conclude with that, Mr President, and thank you very much. In this respect, we are saying so clearly. Workers, self-employed and professionals in the tourism sector must not be accepted to pay for the crisis. They have to go through the counterattack. They must aim and claim to meet their demands. The JRC supports the demands and struggles of workers, the self-employed, the professionals in the field of focus, because they have to pay the state and the large business groups and not them. They must also turn to government policy, but also to this system which creates ever greater problems for them, which are more and more difficult, so that they can survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the speakers and the fact that the Minister and Mr Kegeroglu have still spoken, the procedure will be completed at approximately 22.00 p.m. That is why I would ask that we all be consistent in time. Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the moment when the Ministry of Tourism chose to table a bill on diving tourism could not be more timely. It starts a summer that won't look like any of the things we've lived on. Fewer visitors, limitations on beaches, catering, entertainment, extraordinary protection measures everywhere. This, of course, does not mean that every effort will not be made to strengthen tourism. The Prime Minister and Minister announced measures to relaunch the sector, the first of the "Consumer-WORK" programme, with which companies can employ staff according to their capabilities and needs, while workers have the full coverage of the state, which replaces the lost part of their wages. By reducing VAT from 24% to 13% on all modes of transport, Greeks are given an additional incentive to take a holiday this year, since combined with the strengthening of the social tourism programme, the cost of the holidays will be significantly lower. Another beneficial measure is the reduction of the tax advance, especially this year's profits, on the basis of which the advance is calculated, will be significantly less. Finally, we have the strengthening of liquidity by returning the tax advance, the activation of the Business Guarantee Fund that will make available EUR 7 billion for liquidity in 2020, with the State guaranteeing 80% of the loans and the suspension by September of all payments of debt and loan instalments of the affected sectors. All this, ladies and gentlemen, together with the measures necessary to protect health, both of the inhabitants of tourist areas and visitors, is expected to relaunch the tourism industry. At the same time, however, it is necessary to develop specific forms of tourism for the whole year, throughout all parts and with numerous activities. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Ionian Islands region tourism contributes 73% of GDP, one of the highest rates in the country. My island, Lefkada, has the chance to have the appropriate natural and climatic conditions, as well as businessmen who developed special and alternative forms of tourism, such as windsurfing, kitesurfing and diving. The Basilica in southern Lefkada, for example, has a lot of visitors from all over the world because of the weather conditions and the local specialities that favour windsurfing, like Saint-Yiannis in northern Lefkada, where they come from all over Europe for this specialized sport, Kitesurfing. In particular, for diving, the existing legal framework prevented the development of diving tourism, even though we have many important warships on my island and on the whole country, such as an Italian World War I cannon located south of Lefkada, close to the Lefkata amplifier. This tourism product, this special form of tourism, diving, attracts high-income tourists, contributes to the expansion of the tourist season, as well as to increasing the average per capita expenditure of incoming tourists in Greece, a very crucial element for the revenues we expect from our heavy industry, tourism. Of course, about three hundred diving centres operate in Greece and we have about fifteen thousand active divers, which is growing rapidly. Our country is already attracting more than two hundred thousand divers, as our country offers very clean waters, good visibility and a hospitable diving environment with archaeological sites and hundreds of shipwrecks, many of which are of the First and Second World Wars and are an important attraction for the divers. The bill allows for the dive into shipwrecks of ships and aircraft that have been submerged before the last fifty years, but also in ancient antiquities. Another excellent innovation is the possibility of floating in sea areas of various objects that can gradually become diving attractions. Let me point out here that diving is by their very nature a kind of environmentally friendly tourism, since it is also in the interests of diving and business to take care of the underwater and the sea environment. Finally, it is planned to remove many bureaucratic obstacles to the business of diving companies. The bill regulates many other issues relating to tourism, such as integrated tourist development, strengthening investment in port tourist facilities, famous glaming and others. It also includes the granting to undertakings of five hundred square metres of aegialoulo, beach and associated areas, instead of three hundred, provided that at least half of the beach is free. This is a necessary concession on the part of the state to the tourism business, so that they do not lose revenue from the need to comply with the coronary measures. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset, the Government has taken timely and crucial measures to control the coronary epidemic, thereby enabling professionals in tourism to work with the greatest possible safety for the health of visitors and the people of our country. But we must also see ahead. That's exactly what this bill does. It enriches the tourist product, meets the requirements of the market and the demand of visitors, following global developments, thus seeking to strengthen the national economy, the income of professionals and tourist workers and to highlight Greece as a leading dive destination in Europe and the world. In conclusion, I should like to congratulate both Minister Theocharis and the Deputy Minister, Mr Consola, on their excellent planning for the dynamic relaunch of tourism in the country, ensuring above all the health of workers in the tourism industry and visitors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mr Mamulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my position before I go into the draft tourism law, with something that, in fact, as a new parliament, was noisy and even amazed. It only took place two 24 hours ago. In fact, he was presided over as soon as you left Vice President. It was an infinitely good scene, in the negative sense, a scene of deep ex-institutional, anti-democratic, which certainly does not honour our country's parliamentary customs. What has taken place, someone under the poll on the back, is literally governed by nepotism, because, as we know, the father of the New Democracy MP, Mr Kalogannis, and the son now, as soon as the day before yesterday, did not simply honour but offended the Chamber and the institution and all of us. It's something I have to do. As there was no comment on this because of a lack of plenary yesterday, it is something I have to say at least to and I should like to make it clear. Let us go a little further into the draft law, which we are now called upon to comment on, to place, on specific forms of tourism and on provisions for tourist development, a legislation out of time, and, unfortunately, off-site. Apart from the issue of the issues that the tourism sector of our country is facing at this stage. A discord in relation to the anguish of thousands of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises in the industry. A disrespect in relation to the deep anger we receive from all those who are elected by regions that have a strong relationship and dependency, if you like, on the tourist product and the tourism sector. Today's draft law says nothing about what the National Representation should be informed of today. It does not say anything about the workers in this sector who, after all, have been facing what included the Prime Minister's earlier letter, the threat of immediate dismissal if they do not accept the reduction of their wages. It does not say anything about the financial closeness of small and medium-sized enterprises, which otherwise are praised as heroes in your arguments, and in reality in the present circumstances these people are unable to manage the start-up costs for the new anemic season. It does not say anything about how the European Commission's financial resources will be made available, whether they will be unrecoverable aid or lower loans. Nor does it say anything about the great patient, about AEGEAN and about the plan you are preparing to socialise the damage, without even taking a share of the Greek public or even without other social and environmental exchanges. The bill unfortunately recommends and is a twin brother of the anti-environmental bill, the environmental abortion you submitted three weeks ago. Today's draft law uses, extends and exploits the provisions of the Hatzidakis law to liberate the New Democracy and special interest groups with which it speaks, from the suffocating coercion of our country's environmental legislation. Your bill, Minister, is permeated by this very perception: firstly, to break the coercion of spatial and environmental legislation. Secondly, to extend the scope of economic activity to sensitive ecosystems. Thirdly, we should open windows to retreat the monsters, the abominations that led to the urban life of our country from post-municipalisation until 2015. With regard to the regions - integrated tourist development, we are pleased that Article 31 has been withdrawn or, in any case, recast, because it really lacked a very great risk in spatial planning, without that being the case, it does not exist on the table. But what can we understand, Minister, from your intention with Article 22, is that you create a special sanitary zone around RITS so that the investor can define the uses of land in foreign property? Don't you know that this is a flagrant violation of the Constitution? How else can we understand the elasticisation of the status of CITES which will change paths, such as in Article 21, will we clone the zones with special spatial arrangements, as in Article 17, without such changes going through an extreme, thorough, constitutional control? I come to issues relating to the glaming issue. In fact, this is what I would like to finish my position. I've left, as I say many times, the best for the end. Good joke about glaming, i.e. glamorous camping. So, we're going to take a vacation on a literal scene. Very good. I would like an honest answer, however, Mr Minister, henceforth a question: Article 37 of the Ministry of Tourism will give tomorrow the signal for an installation which is explicitly projected in Article 42 that it may also contain NATURA areas. This will be done, while the technical specifications in the mid-term for these installations do not exist even before the YEI publishes them through Article 40. Therefore, there is, essentially, a serious time gap, in which there is no technical description, no technical specification for what may be completed in the form of infrastructure. It's very critical. So tell me what the limit is really - and I tell you in the capacity of the civil engineer - between a multiplier scene and an arbitrary one. Are these the materials of the floor? Is that a description? Is it the foundation? Are the public-private networks? Is that the floor coating? What is that, Minister? So, with the incoherent provisions, as you can see, on glaming essentially what you are doing? In fact, we welcome you with open arms, a new generation of forest arbitrary species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u284	Thank you to Mr Mamulakis for the time. Mr Pappas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin I should like to say something to my colleague, Mr Santorini, from the Dodecanese. At the moment, it's not a protection capsule for the EKT. Right now, there's three of them. Informing this House, by 10 June we will have ten in total, which will be used for needs - we hope, of course, that there will be no need to carry people from the islands to mainland Greece. I had the honour of electing a Member of the Dodecanese, the place where I was born and raised. Last Tuesday, I visited the public services on my island. I was released on the island. I was released to our market. I was released in the old town of Rhodes that, in other times, such days, was escaping from life, from thousands of tourists, who visit our islands and especially Rhodes and Kos, starting from the end of March with the beginning of April. I walked on empty streets, unfortunately. I have spoken with the islanders, with the citizens, with the operators in the tourism sector and with workers. I guess you know what they were asking me. They asked me: What about tourism? How's the summer coming through? What will happen from September, October? How's winter coming out? Is there a plan? The same I was asked by the Dodecanese institutions since the first day this crisis broke out. And believe me, from the first day on, and I and all my government and fellow Members, at least, of the New Democracy, the Minister, the Deputy Minister, are constantly in video conferences, along with everyone. This is a crisis that, as I have said before, started as health and continues as an economic crisis. And what we are going to fight for and do is not let it reap and become a social crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, many and many of you may have visited our beautiful islands for vacation, the beautiful Dodecanese. Those who have not visited you are given the opportunity today. I call upon you personally and our Deputy Minister, Manos Konsolas, to visit our islands to see their beauty. You all know that the Dodecanese is a signifier of Greek tourism, which we all know is the engine of the Greek economy. Dodecanese is not the part of Greece that breaks down the arrival records every year from abroad. But our proud first has another perspective. The South Aegean region economy depends almost exclusively on tourism, reaching 97% of GDP. This means that the Dodecanese economy is irreparably affected by the coronary crisis, as the Greek economy is hit, as we all know, by 25% of our country's GDP depends on tourism. In this unprecedented crisis, then, in some way, we must act to protect our tourism product, to save as many jobs as possible, to keep the businesses that only a year ago came out of the sluggishness of the ten-year crisis. This can be done with an action plan, organised, interventionist, realistic and practicable, but not static and monolithic, but it is evolving and enriched every day. It is the plan announced on Wednesday by the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and specializes the Minister with the associates and the Deputys, Harry Theocharis and Mano Konsola. It is a plan with two waves of countries that will be associated with Greece, with specific dates for the opening of hotels and forecasts for the management of possible cases. At the same time, health equipment directed towards our islands will remain on the islands and on the inhabitants. Strengthening internal tourism and social tourism are also important steps. The same applies to the reduction of tax advance payments. I would like to focus on the decision to reduce VAT on transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages and the tourist package. I would particularly like the officials of the Ministry of Finance - because the officials of the Ministry of Tourism are pressing in this direction - to listen to experts. I would like to repeat, however, the constant and fair request from the Dodecanese once again by this Step, for the reintroduction of the reduced tax rates, as a minimum measure, especially in these difficult and hard conditions. Will anyone ask: Are these measures enough? Are these the only measures? I'll be honest. No, it's not. It is, however, the first of the many steps to be taken and decisions that may seem bold today, but in future they will appear necessary. The bill we are debating today at the National Representation is a first necessary step, a step towards the renewal and modernisation of the tourist footprint of Greece. Diving tourism is one of the innovations of the bill. Last year a partner traveled to Qatar. There, then, a state official told him that he had come to beautiful Nisros in the Dodecanese because he wanted to dive. Why can't Greece advertise diving tourism in countries that see our own seas in photos or on YouTube or in various videos, the wrecks that exist at our seabeds and the ancient antiquities? Not many countries have that possibility. With the bill, what the Ministry of Tourism presents today, Greece acquires it. Glaming is a new form of tourism that marries luxury with traditional camping and nature. Greece is a traditional camping destination that can further develop its product. He's doing this with the bill. At the same time, the tourist season is escalating, necessary for this period, in an effort to stimulate tourism as much as possible, which we all know. And I want you to know that for years now, the businessmen, the islanders, the inhabitants of our islands have been asking for it. The main objective of the bill is to strengthen local economies as much as possible and to create or add jobs. In this way, the visitability of destinations is enhanced and the Greek tourism product is even more enriched. I do not want to fail to mention the amendment on the bank seats and the changes made to allow for greater flexibility in the focus area. We are used to seeing the amendments sceptically. In this case, this amendment - believe me - gives me a life kiss at the focus. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you all realise that tourism is the most important national product that this country has after our culture and history. There are no small-scale reasonable and political benefits in tourism actions. Don't forget, when we talk about tourism, we're not talking about something arbitrary, but about thousands of businesses, hundreds of thousands of people living from the tourist seasons. Over the past few months, the whole planet has praised Greece for its operations in the management of the pandemic. I do not want to believe that there is even a Member who did not feel proud when he read foreign media that once showed us with the finger and spoke with ironic comments about us, now showing us as an example of imitation. So it is up to us to show the whole planet that Greece can successfully protect its people and an important part of its economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, put your party identity in the drawer and stand in the national effort of a government trusted by Greek citizens, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Stand national and not party and support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr Pappa, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to formally accept the amendment under Protocol No 311/4, which the Minister for National Defence argued earlier. I would also like to say that we add to the title 'and other provisions' at the end, in order to better reflect the form of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u288	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, tourism along with the primary sector is the heavy industry in our country and the relaunching of the tourism sector is an urgent need for our economy, especially for the local economy of our island Greece. Greece is determined by tourism, and it is, ladies and gentlemen, crucial, since under normal circumstances, the summer season would have begun, to bear all the weight in the next period of tourism and relaunching. We have heard the government's plan to phase out measures in the tourism sector, but we note that, despite your efforts, Mr Ministers, there are shortcomings, mainly with the lack of health protocols. Here, ladies and gentlemen, can I point out that if professionals in the sector do not know clearly and in good time the framework in which their shops will operate will be chaos. Positive is that the international press makes constant references to Greece showing our country as a safe and attractive destination. That's important and good for all of us. However, we absolutely ought to capitalise this national success. This can be done mainly with clear common European health protocols, both in tourism and transport and transport. Here I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that we, as Greeks, have created a comparative advantage for our competitors in tourism, such as Italy, France and Spain. And that is what we have to take advantage of with the better preparation and safe reception of tourists. And that's, I'd say, the most important thing. Minister, you are bringing in a bill to be passed with arrangements for new forms of tourism, but also provisions relating to the urban and environmental footprint. The first part of the bill contains arrangements for divestment tourism. This is a new form of tourism fast growing, which can really be exploited by our country with considerable benefits for our economy. Let us not forget that there are countries which are the destination of diving tourism by attracting visitors from all over the world. The bill, however, deals in a fragmentary way with diving tourism, and I say this because diving tourism includes a set of pre-industrial activities that are not exhausted by simple underwater tour, which the bill naturally speaks about. On the contrary, they are combined with both terrestrial activities, such as exhibition spaces and other submarine activities, such as events and underwater sport. However, ladies and gentlemen, with the regulations which come and with the definition given by the Ministry for Diving Tourism, all these activities are not promoted. What are you, however, doing today, Mr Ministers? You are dealing with this issue in the form of thematic tourism, as is alternative tourism in general, without an integrated plan. Mr Ministers, you are institutionalising the Dumping Tourism Council by increasing bureaucracy, while a body with wider competences and the various forms of alternative tourism could be provided for. I would like your answer here, because, moreover, the bet of all of us is the fight against bureaucracy, not the giggling of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the visiting archaeological sites. A basic principle should be the combination of tourism development and protection of our cultural heritage. However, the arrangements contained in the bill for the archaeological archaeological sites give rise to our concern, such as Article 6. The Embassy of the Ministry of Culture should in any case be responsible for managing the archaeological sites and not only when no other body has been designated. That is, the archaeological archaeological sites cannot operate under a different status from the land. It is also important that the question of protecting antiquities regarding both the diving of visitors and their departure and return to the traditional archaeological sites. This is because due to the absence of physical borders they are vulnerable to illegal action. I wonder here whether we know that a tourist, Minister, who will dive and meet the archaeological site, will not return to him from another point, outside his working hours, by intervening and removing antiquities? We've been through this in the past. This is why the only solution is the careful selection of the visiting spaces by the Embassy of Modern Antiquities and their continued supervision by patrols and any appropriate means of shipping, such as radar and but means of modern technology. This, of course, is to be done in order to obtain immediate intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes brought about by the bill and by urban environmental legislation are important. However, I would say that it enables intervention in sensitive and protected areas, even without clear specifications for the protection of the environment and the local nature of each region, without conditions for the quality of tourist investment, so that they are naturally in line with the natural environment. Mr Ministers, I will dwell on Article 22, which provides for a protection zone around the limits of integrated tourism development, and this raises an issue of unconstitutionality. This is because, in this way, immovable property of third parties adjacent to these areas will be subject to specific conditions and restrictions on land use for the conditions of construction for the benefit of naturally large tourist investments. Here, Minister, I would like you to see this again and we are waiting for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion what we must all be clear about is what tourist development we want - and that is what we want for me. For us, of course, the Change Movement, PASOK, is one: sustainable tourist development, which respects and enhances the natural environment with respect for the future generations. With these thoughts, we have tabled concrete proposals by our rapporteur, George Francis, and of course we expect you to accept them. I also heard the amendment on the bank seats. I think it is in the positive direction and must be accepted. Finally, positive development, Mr Minister, is what you have said about your tourism education and good for yourself. Training and training, therefore, for tourism are the essential components. Do the thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr Constantopoulos, for the time. Mr Kriton Arsenis has the floor for his denology. He has multiple roles, so he'll talk as much time as he needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I will always be very brief and will not be using my time. The reason for my speech is, because it is heard again and again by my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that the measures for the beaches - those measures which, as I said, Kathmerene herself denounces in yesterday's article, but also a few days ago by another article - concern the coronary and I want it to be clear. Minister, if they concern the coronary, write that they will only apply as long as the emergency measures are in force for the coronary. Otherwise, let's be honest, it's not about the coronary. They are not relevant to the other sunbeds, special measures taken by the Government and are permanent measures to favour hotels or other types of accommodation in front of beaches and sanctuary. If this does not apply to the coronary, write it down. Bring Legislative and write that it will be valid for as long as the emergency occurs and that after the article is withdrawn. I want this to be clear. Also, because I forgot to speak as parliamentarians, first of all we would like to congratulate you really for listening to our complaint and to the complaint made by the European Parliament, and in Article 8 you have laid the prerequisite for environmental impact studies. It is a huge difference with these three words, and I think that the possible damage is very much reduced, because at least there will be a check on what was the earlier situation and what were the conditions and conditions for any infringement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u292	Thank you. Mrs Sukoulis - Vilialis from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I place myself on the bill, I would like to say that listening from Mr Pappa here at the Step of the House to appalling bizarre theories about 'right' and 'left' tourism is a supreme sign of the social and political isolation now found by SYRIZA. Irregardless populism is no help and no longer passes. The government and Mr.Mitsotakis won social confidence in the health crisis and proceed with cooling, consistency, responsibility and seriousness. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to place ourselves in the bill on the development process for a very important productive sector in which our country has a clear comparative advantage. Let us not hide, we are talking about the productive field that in the years of the crisis has kept the country alive, but also proved its enormous development potential, even when everything around has come into a huge economic warp. Because tourism has played, played, and will play a decisive role in the structure of our economic cycle. We must, however, understand that maintaining and increasing the competitiveness of our tourism product in the global tourism market is not a static process. Our flexibility and speedy adaptation to the new data on preferences for foreign and domestic tourists is a permanent request, in which we are called upon to give dynamic responses. Only in this way will we be able to increase the added value of the result produced for both the benefit of the country and the citizens. But where are we, and where do we want to go? Although mass tourism continues to be a large part of the tourist market, there is a significant shift towards specific forms of tourism. This is neither accidental nor just a transitory tourist trend. At the time of the information, tourists have much more opportunity to investigate, but also to identify their own personalised interests with the opportunities offered by tourist destinations. As a result of this possibility, we are leading to a model that the search for separate and authentic experiences should be governed by some of the main features. This shows more and more research in the tourism field. The search for spiritual, physical and psychological well-being and relaxation in a natural environment, where the human hand has made the smallest intervention, seems to emerge from part of tourists as the most important criterion for choosing their travel destination. Together with the fact that they no longer want a one-thematic experience, but instead seek a multi-dimensional experience of emotions and knowledge, they change the holistic model of the products offered. A category of such travellers are the so-called millennials born between 1981 and 1995, which in 2025 constitute 50% of travellers. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a political and personal belief that what we call 'alternative tourism', namely, special tourism - wine tourism, ecotourism, agricultural tourism, medical tourism, archaeological and cultural tourism - will be the dominant pillar in the tourist market for many years to come and I do not think that should be afraid of us. This shift in tourist preferences should not scare us. On the other hand, our country has all the dominant features in order to take the lead in the global tourism market. If you want, personally, I think that this framework fits and favours our own strategic targeting, because, firstly, we are combining our tourism product with the protection of our natural environment, since every intervention will be more friendly to the natural ecosystem. Secondly, we support the individual local economies of even remote regions which have not so far actively participated in the benefits of the tourist result. Thirdly, we are prolonging the tourist season. Fourthly, we are creating a successor situation as investments are being created in our country, so we are helping our children to stay in our country and, fifthly, they will benefit both in combination and in other sectors of the Greek economy, such as the rural economy. In the end, we will achieve sustainable development in terms of quality work and innovative entrepreneurship. The bill that the Ministry of Tourism presents today moves in the right direction, because it is precisely supporting the above strategic philosophy, either through the development of diving tourism and the provision of separate experiences from the underwater magical microcosmos, either by introducing and regulating new trends of the tourist market, such as glaming, that is to say, luxurious stay in nature and, indeed, by removing the well-known bureaucratic strangles by modernising the institutional framework, so that seven signatures of Ministers do not need to qualify as a dive park even. And not only are the seven signatories, but they are also the agencies that are before the signatures. Ladies and gentlemen, we are enriching our tourism product in the direction of modern trends in the world tourism market. We are confident to strengthen our country's competitive advantage in the field of tourism. We have the primary materials to achieve a greater and more qualitative effect in the field of the tourism economy, and so to give the added value to our product, which is greater than it is today. We can do better for more, because a morning walk in Kastania, an observation of birds in the lake of Stymfalia, accompanied by a brief tour to the Environment Museum, will give the necessary breaths of relaxation and well-being. I said to the committee, where I travelled to the paths of Zeria, the wineries of Nemea and the ancient stage of Nemea - other breaths of knowledge and experience - that in plenary I will also go down on the coast front of Corinth, Mr President! And in order to respect the time, apart from the kilometres of coastlines - which has no Arcadia, it has Corinthia - and the Saronic and Corinthian, I would like to make a "built" and in history and to meet Kalao in Solygeia, the ancient port in Lechaio, the ancient port in Keheias, with the steps of Apostle Paul, all of the highest archaeological and value, all of the highest cultural value, all of the highest - now - and dive value. And, yes, this is our home and it's of the highest value! Greece is worth it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u294	Thank you for the time too. Mr. Zachariadis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u295	The debate today has two legs. One part relates to the material of the bill and the second part obviously the Prime Minister's announcements the other day. Despite the euphoria in the middle hours, unfortunately, the problems are still here. Let SYRIZA go and listen to the world of the market, entrepreneurship, work. Let's go back to the GATT report, which presents a stirring situation for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Come to talk to the world, which, over the last two months, has been living with 800 euros, i.e. 400 euros a month. Really, where's the plan? The government speaks of bridge measures. Where's the end of this bridge? Is it the election escape? The government, unfortunately, leads the economy to a spiral of recession and social catastrophe. It allows workers either to accept a 20% reduction in wages either to accept the rotational project or to be made redundant. They are completely absent from the strong measures directly in support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and, unfortunately, the footnotes, the exceptions, the asterisks often abolish the whole device that would blunt certain situations. Is it also accidental that we are expected to record the deepest recession, the greatest unemployment and the greatest disparities at pan-European level? Apart from the coronary and capitalism, as Mr. Theodorikos told us, is it not Mr. Mitsotakis' fault? It has started to form the picture that all the good things are going on, for example in dealing with the spread of the virus in our country, are initiatives by the Prime Minister, while for all the bad, difficult, unpleasant, it is always because of someone else: the situation, SYRIZA, the European Union, capitalism. This is not a mature political behaviour, but a conduct of well-trained, irresponsible children. Politics, among other things, is having the art to predict, because otherwise it would all happen at random. Are we saying, for example, that today we are talking about airlines, tourism, banks without predictions, without assumptions, without scenarios? Are there not provisions for workers and small and medium-sized enterprises alone? Shall we go see the teleworkers now that we've been in this teleworking process? What security controls do we really have to check when telework starts and ends? Who pays the cell phone, stable, home power, computer, printer, scanner, air condition and the heating of the remote worker? How is the director's friendly phone dealt with in the existing one, which tells him to prepare something "little" that he forgot at 10 o'clock at night? What does a boss's email at 12 o'clock at night start a meeting at 8 o'clock in the morning? For all this at present, there are no answers. The government seems to be facing the crisis as an opportunity, as is unfortunately the European neoliberals. You remember in the first few days Mr. Brutsi saying that the country's labour law is being rewritten. He was right. That's what's happening right now. You apply for the second time in a decade neoliberal experimentation and ideological obsessions. The Prime Minister himself who renounced neoliberalism in his interview with CNN, in practice comes to implement it. We're talking a lot about middle class. The question of middle-class in the phase we are in is existential. The big question of the time is not whether the middle class will vote for alpha, beta or gamble party, as some people think, but whether it will shrink to an irreversible extent if those who have endured the ten-year crisis are marginalized, if there is a new cycle of poverty and destruction. The main question, that is, what will be the structure, structure of the Greek economy and its backbone in 2030. What does the government say about it? Does he have to propose anything more than a disguised austerity program? Mr. Mitsotakis, of course, had made support in the middle class a flag of the New Democracy campaign. All of this now, of course, seems to be not fit into his program in this difficulty. We heard yesterday in a statement from the Prime Minister that developments in Europe are good. Where has Mr Mitsotakis seen good developments in Europe? Does she not listen to Mrs Lagard saying 'too liftle, too late'? Does it not see how much the United States is spending on supporting their economy? Does she not see what Germany does for the German economy? Let all Greeks and all Greeks think about this - not only the small and medium-sized but also the large - what this European imbalance means to Greece and to our businesses. Mr Lebanese raised two important issues in his position earlier. We're subsidising, he says, the job, we don't pay the lazy people a bonus to sit down. Are you saying 27% of the unemployment you left in 2015 were lazy? So 17% of the unemployment we left in 2019 are lazy? Has the lazy been reduced in Greece in four years? The argument of lazyness is a ruthless argument. It is the argument that some countries said in 2010 for Greece, Portugal, for Spain. If that's possible! Mr. Lebanese spoke of ideology. Tell us, Mr. Levane, how does the market regulate things in times of crisis? Is the public health system a financial burden? What about LUFTHANSA and what are you thinking about doing with AEGEAN? What is the role of the state in crisis? Are there social goods, or are there only goods? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, if you can. The Prime Minister said yesterday in the announcements that we had exceptional months January and February. But we delivered 2.8% growth and in the fourth quarter of 2019 it was 1%, while the New Democracy said it would reach 4% growth. The figures for Genarris and Flevaris - before the coronary - showed a clear discrepancy in the targets in relation to the budget you voted on here in December 2019. Where did you see the brilliant financial results? One more observation. We have said about a programme of 26 billion. You said a programme that you appreciate at EUR 24 billion. We say that it is not 24 billion, and that has been established, our relevant sectorists have said so, but let us accept this for the debate. Really, Minister, why did you blame us for populism and waste? Why did you tell us about 'leaf trees', since what you are proposing is 24 billion and what we are proposing is 26 billion? Are ours "leaf trees" and yours counted financially? Last and most important. Why a sample test not universal to all tourists who are coming to Greece? Don't you understand the danger? Don't you even understand the possibility of madness or provocation? Can we play with these? With all these thoughts, we put ourselves in the way our rapporteur said, we put the issues in the way, and we will put them and ask for answers and honest dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis. Now Mr. Loading from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course we are liberal, but we have stressed that we are not neoliberal. Of course, in our own governmental programme, we also anticipated a reduction in tax burdens and contributions. There is, of course, a distinction between left-wing and right-wing politics, because other camping and other glaming. So we are here today to discuss the development of diving tourism at a critical moment for our country and for our economy. The pandemic and its consequences put our country's heavy industry at immediate risk, as our country faced genuinely unprecedented challenges, especially in the tourism segment, which is the main artery of our economy. The government is therefore called upon to formulate one of the most demanding crisis management plans it has ever had and has done so with great success - I would say to date, something that is already internationally accepted. Now we go to the core of the bill, which, of course, we are here to ratify. It is therefore at the core of the bill to upgrade the country's tourism. By means of the draft legislation being passed, the foundations are being laid, but are all the conditions being created, so that sustainable tourism can develop in the country, which it achieves? On the one hand, it highlights the country's wealth, without undermining it and, on the other, it can have a higher economic return on all and higher per capita income per tourist. This draft law therefore improves, but also strengthens the institutional framework of tourism on two lines. Firstly, it introduces a clear and effective institutional framework so that all divestment tourism, glaming, health tourism and maritime tourism can be developed and all related activities. Secondly, it resolves crucial institutional issues of spatial and administrative nature to promote business, mainly tourism, but also to correct flaws in the whole institutional framework of 2005. So to a very significant extent, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law introduces regulations and faces problems linked to tourism infrastructures or to all the activities on the basis of which the economic efficiency of tourism can also be strengthened. With more operational infrastructure, both with various incentives and arrangements in more specific forms of tourism, we can attract too many tourists, those who are willing to have more important spending, leaving the country with a correspondingly higher income. So the draft legislation is a basis for the government's implementation of what it has said, for sustainable quality tourism that the country needs, such as the whole strategy that has been presented to us by the Ministry and also by the Government. I would therefore like to focus on some of the key aspects of this draft law, some of which I believe open up new prospects. In particular, for diving parks: a chronic stress is resolved, as a clear institutional framework is finally introduced so that our country can follow an example of other countries, countries that have invested in various diving parks and have, of course, been won. At the same time, these parks in their implementation can create all the conditions for strengthening the bottom and also addressing the impact of overfishing. Secondly, they are very important, beneficial, I would say, all the provisions to strengthen a modern, high demand for maritime tourism, which can exist with all the regulations that are in place for ports and in Article 23, but also with Article 24 and Article 25 with intervention - the Minister of Tourism's capacity to define port manager. Of course, I would also like to stand as a member of the Cyclades on a very important issue that we have highlighted in the committee as well. I am also pleased at this step of the House, I would say, in connection with the regulation of Article 28, which promotes the modernisation of the port of Mykonos. However, with regard to other uses, I would ask you, Minister, to look at this very carefully. A percentage of tziros in the future should go to the Port Fund of the Municipality of Mykonos, which is in the Municipality of Mykonos, and clearly there is also a precedent with the port of Piraeus. Furthermore, I consider the regulation in Article 50 to be very important and crucial for the directional markets and the protection of healthy competition, as, as we have said many times, we are liberal and not neoliberal. An important provision in Article 57 is also for the adoption of a regulation on relations between tourist accommodation and customers. Finally, I welcome the regulation of Article 55 in a field with which I am also personally engaged as an island MP, which is the implementation of telemedicine. The regulation of Article 55 on the operation of a telemedicine system in centres of thermal tourism, such as Kythnos, Kimolos, Milos, and other islands, is very important for the operation of telemedicine systems in health tourism centres. It is, of course, beneficial and opens up new prospects for expanding the use of telemedicine. In conclusion, this bill at a crucial moment for Greek tourism opens the way for tomorrow, because it lays the foundations for sustainable tourism, which our country has a great need and must seek. Finally, we prove in practice that there may be substantial tourism and development, always with respect for the environment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u298	Thank you for the time too. The floor has now been asked by the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u299	For the sake of time, Mr President, I will speak from my position in order to prepare for the next one. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u300	Okay, I'll allow you, but your time isn't seven minutes. You have 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u301	And secondary!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u302	Yeah. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are discussing a bill, which concerns a pillar for the economy and the development of the country. We are talking at a time when, in fact, this bill had to contain all those elements that will pave the way for us to have the least possible recession in the country. Of course, I will also be in favour of the bill, where George Frangidis fully recommended our views. We are at a juncture of ten months after the elections today. I would like to remind you - because today, listening to all this and of course, in the past few days, considering what the New Democracy had promised beforehand - two images of the New Democracy came to my mind. One picture is the pre-election period for the European elections last year and then for the national elections, for the consensus, for the national consensus, for the modernisation, for the centre-rights - and of course for all those who promised on the basis of them, which was a good communication programme that convinced the Greek people of some things. Of course, it was an easy job, because it had, on the other hand, to oppose a state of SYRIZA, a politically unresolved, ineffective results for growth and half the jobs in relation to social policy. Her work was easy, but she still exceeded herself and presented this beautiful, angelically false face. Slowly after the elections and after taking the mandate, we see another person in the New Democracy revealed, a person who seems to have nothing to do with what was presented in the election, but also in the first few months in this Chamber. I shall give the example of the posters. We had criticised SYRIZA along with the New Democracy for the acceding officials. Mr President, as you know, we had started joint parliamentary scrutiny, because the previous government had indeed escaped from every limit. And while the previous government had escaped from every boundary, and together we were challenging, and you promised in the election that you would close this black hole for the country, you will stop and punish this state of transmigrants, then come and do institution. Immigration Ministry, postmigrants everywhere, young commanders, stories. I was counting the past few hours and losing the bill. I arrived around the eight hundred new people - posters and unpaid advisors, who can now be not compulsory education, but also without primary school leave. There are cases like this. So we have another person completely different in practice. You came here in the first few days with an amendment and told us that the independent authorities should not be allowed to enter parties and Mrs Thanos was poorly placed in the independent authority that I think was the Competition Committee. We said yes, it is a step because we institutionalised the independent authorities as a system of balance of central power. We have in fact predicted that it should have a consensus of 4/5 on the Conference of Presidents and that it does not have a party identity. This has changed, of course, in various ways, such as by increasing the composition of the Conference of Presidents, and so on, we have come and said: 'Yes, we will vote on your amendment' and the amendment was voted because of this incompatibility, which he had served in a office of Prime Minister, etc. And today, Mr President, they bring to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency the recommendation for the Consumers' Counsellor, an Independent Authority. For this independent authority, Mr Zagoritis was brought in. He's a good man, but a secretary of the New Democracy Party. He's a good man but a party executive for years. I think it has never lifted party status. Is it therefore a consequence of words and works? Where do we want to put the ear on? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Look, as I have said before, Thrafaniotis, i.e. the potter - Thrapsano is called the village of potters in Crete - sticks the first ear at any point that he chooses. The second ear, however, should enter the opposite, in contrast, cannot stick wherever the second ear wants. So today you have shown that it was only a pretext that the amendment you tabled here on the party incompatible, and that is why you did not accept our supplementary provision at the time, that there is no possibility of appointing someone to an independent authority when it has been a party. I am very sorry about this development, which is precisely a sign of this two-faced and bilingualism of the New Democracy. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Do you want to actually go? In addition, the Commission considers that the State aid measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Not applicable. Then, for three months, Chakalotos had been telling me that he was the responsibility of Mr Stathakis. I asked Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Constantinople to Mr. Stathakis, at some point we cornered them, brought them here. And they say "yes, but you know that's also the responsibility of the Greek Banks Association and it's also the responsibility of the Consumers' and Consumers' Counselor. For abusive practices - if you really want to talk about it - which are implemented all this time by the banks without a hint, without any shame, the Greek Banks' Union comes to answer with this document in a question that we are putting before us. The Association of Greek Banks responds. The ministries are making the duck, and development and finance. When - when Starfleet says about the arrangements that banks don't listen. Others say we're talking, we're insinuating, we're showing. The pure truth is the document of the Association of Greek Banks. So what does the document of the Association of Greek Banks say, as if there were no government? It says that from a comparison of these tariffs, the respective Greek banks show that the tariffs of the Greek banks are lower than those of the European banks. Listen to what he says: Based on what comparison? "That the charges in Greek banks are 16% of the operating costs, while in Europe they are 33%, without telling us, of course, how much the operating costs in Greece are and how much they are in Europe and if they are in Greece they are increased, so the charges are a very low percentage of operating costs. But we do not care what percentage is in relation to the operational cost, gentlemen of the Association of Greek Banks, Mr. Harula Agalagakis, and Mr. Radee, who sign it, but we are interested in the pocket of the Greeks. And, unfortunately, the burden is huge. There are a lot of things I can say and I want to mention. Another face you've shown is completely showing us now. This pandemic, which is not only about our country, is about all of Europe, is about the whole of the world. The system worldwide showed an inertia and a hesitation to take measures and decisions. Already since the beginning of January, it's been a mess. There, in the World Trade Organization, the game has been played, pressures not to mention the economy, do not make any announcements, a directive one day, the next day they took it back. On 22 January I table with my colleague Mr Poulou the first parliamentary intervention at a pan-European level - I do not know whether it was wider - to which we were talking at that time? We were saying it's nine deaths worldwide, but there's a tsunami coming. And here comes tsunami, because the facts are both these and those of the World Health Organization while it was processed, it dares not move on to the necessary recommendations. China is playing its game. Look, Greece was not inert from the other countries this time, because it was manifested in the other countries, we saw the negative results and, in fact, our scientists quickly recommended the necessary measures that were observed by the Greeks. We supported the measures, with few exceptions. All parties supported the measures. Why? Because, indeed, it was the result of a scientific processing. So this gives the government today the right to keep saying, once we criticise the rest: 'But did I not do so'? He did it on the count, he says, well. In other words, it is the ministers' fault and, as has been said before, a number of third parties are to blame. Look, things are very serious and the size of the recession - which will exist, de facto, recession - not only depends on the other countries, not only on the general economic movement but also on what we are going to do, so that the recession in our country is less. Therefore, it depends entirely on economic activation measures. The economy is not restarting and is not being activated by orders, as it has closed. That was relatively easy. Globally applying some decisions across Greece, we're closed, okay. Starting is the problem. So reopening requires the activation of jobs, it requires specific conditions for professionals, businesses, tax companies, which have to do with their obligations, which have to do with economics, because there must be an object. So we as a Change Movement have chosen the difficult path of proposals. Of course, when I hear 24 billion, a huge sum, 26 others. They have proposed 24 billion and 26 billion, that is to say 50 billion. And we, guys, with less than four billion, have made three specific proposals, which I see as more effective. Is there anything else on your mind? Is there anything else you're thinking about? Let's go look at the counts one by one. I'll take the time of my secondary speech, Mr. President. I'll take my time. We have proposed a programme for subsidisation of work. And since many times it sounds "we, the government adopts proposals, etc.'??' I want to say that he only adopts the title. You have adopted the title labour subsidy good. You have adopted the title of an internal tourism programme for all good and good. But you do not adopt the content and that is your fault. For we say: Programme for a million workers, payment of 40% of wage costs including insurance contributions for six months, a universal programme for the tourism sector and all the businesses working around it, for the primary sector, for processing, for professionals, for the activities that are currently going on. And instead, you do some tricks: Make a combination of half-employment with rotating work and you can also be an insensitive and be able to sit on the couch and be able to work at the factory at the same time, but stay a few hours for teleworking. All this doesn't work out. They are unresolved initiatives, individual and fragmentary programmes. They don't have a whole concept of moving things forward. This programme, therefore, is worth ECU 2.4 billion - I think - in its entirety, with ECU 1.5 billion from the 'SURE' which has already been approved with the money from the Social Fund. Internal tourism programme. We say that, in order to create the critical mass for the economic activity of tourist enterprises, domestic tourism should have at least one very dynamic programme to ensure this critical mass. In addition to those who go alone, we must ensure that three million Greeks go. And we say that a broad tourism programme for all, for three million Greeks, three million citizens of our country, five days overnight, is fifteen million overnights, which need seven million days to work. And we propose that this programme of three million people benefiting from a million four hundred thousands of public sector, the private and unemployed, should involve about eight hundred thousands of pensioners, covering a wide range of pensioners who are unable to go on holiday, concerned with four hundred thousand professionals and farmers, two hundred thousand young people, students, those who are going to have to go on holiday and, of course, two hundred thousand of the beneficiaries of the CRL, namely the social solidarity allowance or the minimum guaranteed income or as it was renamed. This range of people can create the driving force so that what comes out and is added can build with it the minimum economic activity, the minimum economic object that our tourism needs this year to function. I should like to say that in addition to the five nights spent and half-subsidy, we are proposing for the first time that the movements of EUR 250 per person be substantially strengthened, which means for the 3 million, 750 million in total. At first sight, it seems a lot. It's not much. It's a little, because they're creating a big turnover. The 750 million creates a turnover in the narrow sector of the rooms, with the apartments, the hotels and the wider sector that operates around tourism. This will also bring about revenues, but, above all, there will be no need to grant unemployment benefits and survival benefits for workers in this area. That's the key to the case. I close by saying, for the agricultural sector, where we have proposed 50% of the subsidies, which are their own money, for farmers, rather than looking for programmes from here and there, their own money they will receive in October, to take them now in May or June. It is 850 million that can be provided with the OPEKEPE cash facility, only with one request and a SMS that will be sent. Only with a SMS can 850 million can be provided to ensure liquidity in the agricultural sector. At the same time, there was a positive decision by Europe to return 465 million from fines imposed in the previous period. These 465 million can be guaranteed in order, in fact, to have comprehensive liquidity on the market. I close, because I don't have much time, even though I started very thoroughly at first, to tell you about all the suggestions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u304	You have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u305	I have completed, Mr President, because we must not tire you and the workers. I say that the two-three programmes which we have proposed to operate on a priority basis in conjunction with tax measures create the best conditions for the economy to restart and are not so high that I hear, 24 billion each, 26. Where's that money going? Why don't we get one of the policies and programs to see? This year, why pay an advance in a month when the affected company, the affected professional, the farmer, has been damaged? Why would he pay? No advance payment should be made this year for those affected and 50% for those not affected. I'm just saying a little bit of a thought. Isn't it unfair but unconstitutional at the same time, to put on pay this year is a trade end? Professionals and small business will pay a trade fee! Since they're not working, what's the end of paying? End of business! I guess you should call it different. In any case, the priorities we have given with our proposals in combination with tax relief measures can create very good conditions for restoring economic activity and jobs so that we have the least recession. Workers, who are usually paying the marble, have chosen this time not to be the ones who will have to pay the marble at the end, but first of all to ensure that they pay it! This is why semi-employment is combined with rotating, which is why all measures with black holes for the work relations announced by the Ministry of Labour are also included. And, above all, what has been made clear is that compliance with collective agreements is not guaranteed. And, of course, neither thought at this time of extending the ones that apply for the next period. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. We for the bill have been placed in detail for the articles through our special speaker, George Francis. We say yes, the bill is a priority the country needs to see. If we were to ask a citizen - and we were going out - today or many citizens: “We have a huge problem with the economy. The main sector in the economy is tourism. What would you say that we have to do?’, certainly by a hundred, there would be no one to tell you about diving tourism. They would tell you "to bring people", they would tell you "to advertise", they would say "to put vaccines, to show that Greece is a safe country to come", but the dive would not tell you! That does not mean that we do not need to, but this is a state of insanity, because at the time when you have to put the priorities, here we do not put priorities, we put other things in place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u306	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kegeroglu, to inform you, you spoke 20 minutes and fifty seconds. You covered your protology, which is 12 minutes, your dentology, which is six minutes and your tritology, which is three minutes. I say this so that everyone knows that you are a parliamentary representative, and that there are no misunderstandings of discrimination. Now Mr Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u307	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis a few days ago, together with the Government of New Democracy, presented a comprehensive plan, a bridge of EUR 24 billion, with targeted interventions in all sectors of the economy and labour. Unlike the previous government, we do not leave the Greeks to their fate. Unlike SYRIZA, which has not been a tax that has not increased, we do not only increase them but also reduce them, because our priority is the recovery of the economy and the stimulation of entrepreneurship. It is the market that produces wealth, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. That is how the citizens prosper, and so also the public's revenues are increasing, but this is something that refuses to finally understand this 'first time left', a left that is identical to the state's, bureaucracy, the increase in public weights, the confiscation of the property of citizens and of the state itself, a left that is supposedly fighting for the poor, but top executives suddenly find themselves in statements of millions, a left that is supposedly fighting for the protection of the first home, but top officials who have entered the policy with a decline, suddenly today with dozens of properties, a left that is supposed to oppose the European Union's policy, but is sending it to pay, through European programmes, their immovable property for the housing of the poor people who come from other countries. You may have fooled the Greek people for once, but now you are not convinced of anyone, because your policy deficit has now been experienced by the citizens in their daily lives. As long as you insist on them, we will rule by actions. Today the state is here more than ever, with immediate and effective response to all crises, economics, pandemic, national security. SYRIZA and the logic of the automatic pilot now belong definitively to the past. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this year tourism starts at zero. Along with the focus are the main pillars of the national economy. With the draft legislation we are voting on today, we are setting out a new institutional framework for the development of specific forms of tourism, such as diving tourism, to strengthen coastal and island regions, to extend the tourist season, to create and maintain jobs. At the same time, we are introducing the foundation of luxury camping as alternative tourism. We support marinas and tourist ports with simplicity of procedures for their exploitation. We facilitate the granting of the use of haystacks, ensuring the use, transit and recreation of citizens. We support the focus in practice by reducing VAT. We're helping the economy get back in front of meter-sectors. We show around the world that Greece can offer tourists much more and more safely. You, of SYRIZA, are obviously pleased with the current situation. You are pleased with the zero utilization of resources, with the zero revenues from the country's tourist wealth. You are pleased with the bureaucracy that repulses all investors. You ignore what is happening in the other Mediterranean countries, such as Malta, Spain and Turkey. Diving tourism, especially in shipwrecks and underwater archaeological sites, is an extremely popular activity with very high profits. It has been heard by the SYRIZA rapporteur that we are supposedly paving the way for them to be privatised. What we do, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is hitting timeless diseases of public administration that you have grown up while you govern. We simplify procedures, deal with bureaucracy, reduce the many signatures between the ministries, speed up licensing procedures so that these investors can finally come and facilitate the implementation of the projects they want to do. You, of SYRIZA, don't want investment and growth. You are criticised even for the potential of the TATs to be exploited on the Aegean islands and the beaches. Fear and sin the profit, the private initiative, the creation of new jobs and growth for the "first time left". This is a permanent 'no', a permanent 'would', a permanent 'we didn't have time for it. We don't expect you to understand anything from the bill. You don't believe in investment and you're always against them. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are giving the opportunity even in the catering shops to extend incompletely up to 100% of the public space in which they develop tables. So we practically support the entrepreneurs for the burden they have to bear. You're accusing us that we're supposed to throw the ball at the city authorities. You're predictable. We know that for SYRIZA there is only the central state. Stop underestimating the role of Local Government, ladies and gentlemen. You underestimate their ability to decide their own affairs, locals. Ladies and gentlemen, we all understand that this summer will not remind us of anything in the past few years. The tourism pie, worldwide, will be much smaller. Our aim is to take the greatest possible part without anyone's health being at risk. Whether the Greek economy has to rely so much on the tourism sector is another debate and a very big one. Clearly, emphasis should be placed on the development of other sectors of production. Under the present circumstances it is important to save tourist activities so that tens of thousands of jobs are not lost but also businesses. We're for the hard stuff, and we're here, and I'm sure we'll succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u308	Thank you for the time, Mr Boutsikaki. Mr. Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. I am not used to answering the previous speaker when I take the floor, but on the day that Gregory Lambrakis was killed, do not talk about the left and the progressive world, because you have a very great historical burden as an order for what you have done in the country. Stop that logic...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u310	Where have you been in the past few years? What party did you stand on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u311	Stop that tactic of mud. Stop the logic of mud for the Left and the progressive part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u312	Answer me! Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u313	You have a lot of weight as a party for what has been done in the country, very heavy weight, especially the day Gregory Lambrakis was killed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u314	You've always been to SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u315	I was here. Where I was with others from here. We were never like that, never.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u316	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, I'm sorry, but everything has limits. Open a bell to remind us of your story. Open a row!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u318	No, let's retreat the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, calm, calm, to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u320	For the provisions of diving tourism and the other provisions of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism, SYRIZA's rapporteur, Katerina Notopoulou, has been sufficiently placed, identifying gaps, shortcomings, contradictions of the draft law and making specific proposals. The draft law tabled this much-advertised amendment by the Ministry of the Interior, which deals with regulations on sanitary shops. We read about this amendment, and we hear the government a number of weeks ago, and today the Minister for the Interior presents it as a sufficient solution both to support catering shops and businesses, as well as the main action to save, maintain jobs. The amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is a typical example of the government's political direction in three directions. The first axis, maintained by the government with religious devotion, is the precedent: communication, communication, communication. The second governmental axis is the fragmentary measures and the sluggishness that serve communication tactics. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, at critical times and crises, it is not enough for your good communication tactics. In the crisis, decisions, plans and actions are needed. You should have made teams working on sectoral projects. You've done nothing. You should have done both for tourism and for transport sectors, for the areas that can recover lost GDP, such as primary production, infrastructure, processing. You have done nothing of this, and you need a decision and answer to very heavy dilemmas, as with whom will you go and who will you leave. And it seems that you have chosen to leave the small and medium-sized ones you supposedly represented and misled them before the elections and go with your acquaintance friend, BSE, as Nikos said before, is talking about a wave of mergers and takeovers. The third governmental axis is related to popular wisdom, that is, that you have a memorial to foreign tide and you cannot do a memorial to foreign tide and, of course, to the inadequacy of the government to understand what is, in fact, happening in Greek society and the Greek economy. We will, then, first of all, go to the funeral of small and medium-sized enterprises in the focus area and not just to the fragmentary measures, not to the front-line measures, to the inadequate measures you have announced so far. Are we, too, and the middle class you misled with so many technocrats you have in the government, with so many mayors you have - a vast majority - with so many people on the market you're talking about, has anyone told you anything? Haven't you ever felt the need, the anxiety of the storemaster, the self-employed, the freeman to pay the rent, pay the bank seats fees, wages, bills, suppliers? Haven't you felt it? Haven't any of you been through this thing? I'm really asking. Don't you understand how many commitments have been accumulated over the last few months? Has anyone not told you that to date the measures you have announced have failed miserably? It has not been said that, as far as the seven hundred and fifty thousand companies with the self-employed are concerned, half of the fifty-three thousand which you have approved have not even joined. Hasn't anyone told you? In TEPIX, the other funding you have anticipated through banks, the balance sheet is zero, zero. In tourism, Mr Minister, the same balance sheet is, you have predicted nothing. You have a great deal of responsibility for the hundreds of thousands of businesses that will not open up for the hundreds of thousands of jobs that are being lost. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member draws up the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President, for a while. Now we're going to the memorial with a steak. Firstly, you have not predicted anything about cumulated liabilities, whether they relate to municipal fees, bank charges or rent. Secondly, you are instructing the municipalities to grant duty-free twice as much public space as they have in their licence. In the vast majority of the stores this cannot be done, it cannot be implemented and you are confronting the mayors with the shopkeepers and especially where they cannot be done, you will put them into conflict. Thirdly, it refers to the amendment that it can be granted free of charge, that is, it can be granted at additional cost, at additional fees. Delete if this is the case. It is stated that the concession is made by a decision of the authority responsible for administering a public service space of the municipality concerned, i.e. bypassing and bypassing the municipal council or even the quality of life committee. Do you understand what that means? I wonder. Fifthly, there is no mention of what the agency needs to approve the application. There will be an outbreak of corruption, Mr. Theocharis, or conflicts. Sixthly, it is stated that if it is not possible to grant additional space, a reduction of up to 50% of the fees for use is made by the Committee. Here's the ultimate match that you're doing a memorial to foreign collision. He said they're giving 75 million. Your CCT is, absolutely yours to the vast majority. Does it request two CAPs, namely 3.5 billion and you say that you will give emergency financial assistance of 75 million and charge them with 50% discount on the bank's bank charges? I'm not analyst to be quick because of time. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. At least plan something else to absorb unemployment and those that are especially lost in tourist municipalities and small municipalities that will soon be closed down. You'll hang them up with your mayors as well. Seventh and eighth, legal remarks. There is nowhere in the amendment to mention the exceptional and exceptional reasons why you justify the derogation. The Municipality of Athenians gets out today the ministerial decision that it prohibits certain roads due to a coronary, and it will go to put tables, possibly. It will not be covered by the amendment that you have tabled and which raises legal and constitutional issues that are not mentioned in instruments. Not even because the time is until December. Add it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u322	I shall conclude, Mr President. A study of the municipality's technical service is planned. The majority of municipalities have, zero, one, two engineers. Let me see who's gonna do it. You haven't predicted who will. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above observations, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So when there are nine improvements in an amendment, every citizen understands the curiosity, the precursor to say something about communication policy and not about the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u323	Mr. Comrade, you've reached ten minutes. I would ask you very much to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u324	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I will speak no more. I said what I had to say about Local Government. I hope that what the other neoliberal forces in Europe are reviewing, whether it is about privatisation, whether it is about State aid which is forbidden for decades or about globalisation, and you also take back your own neoliberal form of neoliberal Balkans that you are continuing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u325	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Ypsilantis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a happy remark and then continue with an unpleasant one. The good finding, Mr Ministers, is that we have just been informed that the pandemic protocols were issued in the tourist sectors of the country, which is very positive and something that brings the country back to the lead among the European states. The unpleasant thing we have lived here this evening was the obsession of the Officerial Response to dogmatism, the idealism, while the last speaker left him despite the fact that he was given ample time to tell his views and to testify, we saw a study and a concern because, in fact, they see that this government, systematically, in this unprecedented situation, is dealing with issues in such a way that now make our country a model and not an example to avoid, as in the period of country's governance by SYRIZA. There is no doubt at all, ladies and gentlemen, that 1/4 of the Greek Gross Product comes from tourism, which also plays a significant part in balancing the balance of payments, reducing unemployment and the development of the region. The proportion of tourism in the Gross National Product of our islands is certainly dramatically large, very large, huge. Today, on the occasion of discussing this important bill for our tourism, as a Member of Parliament from the pioneering city of Greek tourism, Rhodes, the fourth tourist destination of the country, Kos, and from the other islands - diamonds of the Dodecanese, which make our country's image internationally even more attractive, I would like to focus on issues that have to do, Mr Minister, as well as on the stage that we are going through, given that tourism is a reality directly intertwined with everyday life, entrepreneurship and culture in general, but the main thing is for our country, a great and vital ecosystem. Tourism was the productive process that kept the country standing in the difficult years of the crisis, which brought currency and resources. Today, however, it is the most affected sector and it is the area that must be based essentially, but at the same time with vision and perspective. Let us not forget that the basic concept, identified as tourism, is the relaxation of man and this, unfortunately, cannot be present at the moment in any human beings throughout the world, at least as long as the risk from the virus lasts. If this happens, at least in terms of dealing with the tourist phenomenon, in general, then we will have unpleasant consequences. So, if even our summer, the Greek summer and the high temperatures, as scientists say, do not favour the virus, there is no need to be relaxation and therefore the health measures you have taken and you have offered - this is complemented by what I have written now, because it was last and "fresh" the new one - come to us in a reassurance, if anything, in terms of dealing with this situation. However, we still need to avoid a new patriotism, which is the further shielding of the country's health system both on the mainland and on the island. We can and must have the right hosting organisation for those who want to visit our country and, of course, under the conditions we have set, so that they enjoy and be enchanted by the uniqueness and the sages of this country. In particular, Rhodes and Kos, Minister, may not have reference hospitals, but they are clean areas with regard to the virus, and I believe that with the necessary precautions, at least in Germany, the markets or the market, the charters from Germany, can be opened directly, which will be able to keep the tourist structure alive. I want this to be re-examined in consultation, of course, with the relevant bodies. The steps of the Greek Government are encouraging and we must continue with the accumulated experience. Perhaps it was useful and the definition of a group of experts to manage the crisis, especially in the tourism sector, a committee that, from now on, will cover both the entire range of tourism in health and economic terms. In this context, I am sure that this government will re-examine these measures to strengthen tourism. The key points, in my view, which need to be drawn up, concern the examination of the following parameters which have to be addressed with the reduced rates of VAT for the night, the subsidy of insurance contributions to hotels, the recourse to a new financial protocol, as the Minister of Finance has already mentioned, if possible by nameising expenditure, interest rate subsidies and the further suspension of payment of cheques. Let me submit a letter from the Rhodes Hotel Association, in which these issues are specific. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Tourism, the steam engine of the Greek economy is critically affected by an unprecedented pandemic crisis. In this context, it is self-evident to support the islands of Greece which are tested next door, first of the migratory crisis and now with a pandemic crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some time, Mr President. This draft law introduces a regulatory framework for divestment tourism, while removing outdated bureaucratic obstacles. Our country, and especially the island regions, have unique underwater wealth, which is now becoming accessible to visitors, while at the same time providing protectionist diagrams for ecologically sensitive marine ecosystems. Visiting unique archaeological sites constitute a strong comparative advantage, while adding another point to the cultural wealth of the country. Equally important and innovative are the forecasts for the tourist exploitation of the wrecks, while at the same time providing for strict protection arrangements. The legislation also approaches other modern trends in the global tourism industry. Glabing has been mentioned, combining the amenities of a luxury hotel with accommodation in nature, and, of course, in this regulatory framework, a worthwhile regulatory effort is being made, which is notable and will help Greek tourism. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the decision on the reopening of the Tours School in Rhodes, a school which first worked in the 1950s and helped to develop tourist development. I would like to point out, however, that we need to 'watch', Minister and Minister, and you are announcing it - and the part of tourism education with the upgrading of tourist schools, especially that of Rhodes, which has offered excellent staff to the international tourism market. We must look at the depreciation of the school's building infrastructure, which is a jewel for the place, for Greece, for Rhodes and the highest historical importance for our country. I believe that we will also be able to do so in this part. Besides, the introduced arrangements achieve a multiple benefit, as the way to create jobs opens, a timely expansion of the tourist season is sought, while the upgrading of the services offered will attract tourists with high income profiles. I am sure that with these coordinated and responsible steps we will all be able to do it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u327	Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a 15-minute interruption for health reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Mr Arvanitides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, for our country the tourism sector, with its particular role in the Greek economy, is now facing the most severe blow from the coronary pandemic. I do not know if we have all understood how important it is for us to recover from the attempt to raise tourism and how important this is for the country's finances and for the decisions that the government will be called upon to take during this phenomenon that we live in. Workers and businesses were anxiously awaiting the late government measures and, unfortunately, there is still confusion about how the tourist industry operates, about the health protocols to be implemented in this difficult summer tourist season. The Change Movement, exercising a responsible and useful opposition to the place and the citizens, submitted first of all the parties publicly, already on May 4, a plan to tackle the crisis in Greek tourism. We regrettably see you have not studied our proposals seriously, and so they are absent from your communications such as the abolition of the night's fee, the reduction of landing fees, the dynamic strengthening of internal tourism, the reintroduction of reduced VAT rates to the islands, the decent safeguarding of employees in tourism, because their income will support Greek society. These people were not just workers. These people were consuming at their place, where they offered their work and they will consume the winter and the other half season throughout Greece, but also the preparation of an agreement, even one agreement, with one of the countries we believe, announce or expect to launch the first arrival of tourists this summer. It's a good story. It is good to be pleased with a good press release on the international media, but unfortunately for us, for the Greek economy, everything will be judged on the result, in the rate of tourist income recovery. Mr. Skakakis recently said a month ago that the Greek economy could withstand 50%. From there on, we'll have a problem. I mean a financial problem and then a problem in how to pursue economic policy. And while we were in search of health protocols to tourism, the relevant ministry, under the umbrella of diving tourism, said to also deal with forests. It is so good to coordinate governmental work, the state of staff, that the government itself voted for Article 102 in environmental law ten days ago, in recent Law No.46852020, is today to amend it by Article 32. How serious can that be? What does this have to do with the pandemic? One Minister, the Minister responsible - and the question arises from this - Mr Hatzidakis because he did not include it. He didn't want it? Didn't he want to charge the choice himself? So what is the seriousness of a government calling to trust it because it succeeded in the health crisis, after the Greeks stayed in the house and once we got out, we start to get confused? And why, while we are supposed to be waiting for a consultation of the new spatial planning - it was announced that it will be in Parliament in the next twenty days - fragmentary arrangements are coming here, fragmenting the legislative framework again? I really do wonder how you bring provisions that are super-environmental, such as Articles 22, 31, 32 and others, and you want to be given credit for your green development and environmental policy. You are described as a government as a 'green' arrogance in words. The 'green' agenda you call for, unfortunately, is just words. The Change Movement says yes to the development of mild and new forms of tourism, but not with reductions in the essential protection of the environment. We are dealing with the natural wealth of Greece as a valuable resource and a comparative advantage for sustainable development rather than as a brake of growth. You are absent from your bill from any philosophy of circular economy, as, for example, you do not provide in Article 8 for the materials for the construction of the technical structures required, with which specifications, with which materials they are placed at sea, in the marine environment, with which toxicity, with which friendlyness, with which study. There is no concept of qualitative upgrading in the marina tourists, as you focus mainly on quantitative upgrading, i.e. size. You have not yet realised that our country's problem is not the size of the land area of marinas, which is growing from fifty thousand to eighty thousand square meters, but the qualitative upgrading of their services, the qualitative upgrading of their facilities, their incorrect location and the need for modernisation. Port projects, Minister, have to do with their nature with a very dynamic element called sea and underwater currents. It takes great attention and multi-level studies to do something properly, without affecting tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and in particular the consequences of climate change and the change in natural elements. The form of a coastline, a beach, a town, the sanctuary of the adjacent municipalities are at risk of being found before huge and unsensory constructions as piers, with all that that means to the underwater environment. I hope your choices do not result in a number of years in which whole regions have degraded aesthetically, environmentally and tourism. I'm closing down with a reference to the cauldron, which is supposed to be the biggest coverage of public health, by private companies with sunbeds and umbrellas. Minister, with your arrangements, for which, unfortunately, you do not specify that they are temporary because of the juncture of the coronary, which we could understand, there is a risk that there will be a significant reduction in the public space on the beaches and that we can see the phenomena of aggregation of citizens in the free small parts of the beaches. Where you're going to solve the problem, you might be creating another problem. The extension of the maximum rental of a beach from 40% to 50% in the case of hotels on the cavalry, without temporary regulation, consolidates a situation that will find us across and has already found us in the previous times that had attempted to pass something similar. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minimum of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u330	Of course, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u331	The fact is that there must be an organised consultation with many and not an occasional and fragmentary legislation, as you bring it. That is why I call on both you and the Minister for the Environment, to see this as a whole and without rushes in the forthcoming draft law on spatial planning. The cavalry and its use should be integrated into an integrated climate change adaptation and response strategy. In any other case, we will build towers on the sand without the hotelier, which in our case is the sea and nature. This integrated coastal management with the protection of the critical coastal zone against destructive uses needs to adopt at the same time innovative technologies for irreversible technical projects with respect to maritime dynamics. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that we are positive at the start of the bill, because we want to see our country's tourism opened in new fields and forms. But we have strong objections to individual provisions, as I mentioned before. If we wait for the new spatial draft, we hope that our remarks will receive the attention of the government even in a second year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr Arvanitidis. Mr. Savvas Snowides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will talk about tourism. We have heard a great deal about the crisis in the face of the government in general. I will concentrate on the tourism section, because it is a crucial part as we all know. I want to stand up to what the word Greece is. When a stranger hears the word Greece, it means history, mythology, it means a very good climate, wonderful landscapes, culture, ancient, good infrastructure. What Greece has achieved lately - and she was missing in this puzzle - was credibility. So we see that Greece is now known throughout the world now - it is a reliable country. And as I said recently to the Minister, no matter how much money Greece gave to make a good advertising about how reliable it is in all its actions, it could not achieve it, rather than through the management we had - in this huge global event both in our region and throughout the world - this coronary. What I would also like to mention as an element is that Turkey has seven thousand thousand kilometres of coast. Greece has fourteen thousand eight hundred twenty kilometers of coastline. How much do the big United States have? They have less than twenty thousand along with Hawaii. I would like to say that this is very important for how we can make use of these areas. And are we only saying onshore or also offshore? The extent of Greece along with the marine site that belongs to it is as large as the whole of Germany. It is three times the size of Greece that is land. This means that we must use the best way, always protecting the environment, this vast area, because it is a virgin region, a very important area with all the characteristics I have described - history, landscape, climate - and at the same time it has a lot of scope for use. Opinions were also heard in the Chamber: "What priority can glamping or diving tourism be?" But they are a piece of the puzzle too. Didn't anyone hear about the measures taken on tourism? The Prime Minister and the Minister were there the day before yesterday and they suffered the suffering of the questions. They've informed the world. So something's wrong. Didn't anyone hear this great energy written by the "NEW YORK TIMES" and all abroad, that we electronically advertise Greece with "Visit Greece online"? Didn't anyone hear it? And the Chinese and the American heard it? Of course, this does not mean that we should not at the same time look at any unsolved need to improve the product of Greece. So here, I'll talk about glaming. Indeed, in our region there has been an investment which has been trying to glamping over the last four years. He's paid up so far over 3,000 euros. And where did he suffer? He suffered that there was no legal framework. So here's what it means. Also, with regard to diving tourism, has anyone - or do I imagine most - heard - about the Red Sea, about Sarm El - Sheikh and other areas where they really live with huge wealth in the Egyptian region from diving tourism? Does Greece have a corresponding field? Clearly it has much larger. It is therefore very important that we do, such as reefs, as well as a number of other measures that we need to take. Of course, there are reasonable reservations. Shouldn't someone be policeing? Clearly he must be policed. Is there no care from the Greek state for this? Is that a dry vine? So it's very important and well done. There are other forms of tourism. I will dwell on religious and pilgrimage tourism and on a proposal, Minister, because there are too many people who can easily overcome the issue and come to Greece, as a newly highest religious leader said that he wants to visit Greece and go to the steps of Apostle Paul. There is also a very much Orthodox population who comes to the region. Such an effort was made by the Holy Metropolis Citrus and Katerini. These people are, for this year in particular, very important to come and we must move in that direction. Is dive tourism giving money? The average consumption is three and a half times higher than the sun and the sea, which, yes, we use. I've already mentioned evidence. There are fifteen thousand miles [15 km] of Germany in the sea. We come to say the other thing: we have areas of great importance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me, Mr President, since we are finally, to speak a little more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u334	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u335	I would therefore like to stress that we have a unique point, which is Olympus. We have a lot of well-known words worldwide. Greece is third to choice. First known word is Olympus. Visitors as a whole do not exceed twenty thousand. Is it worth investing in this part? Yeah, if the claws are gone. I will mention just one example: there came a great company that was taking a helicopter American tourists, leaving them at the top of Olympus without bothering the environment, to ski where the cruisers do. That was nine months a year. There's been a bad mess. He had to stop. These are the claws we have. I am also pleased that, in this bill - to say the small things - at last, at the request of the Minister of Finance and with the agreement, of course, of the Ministry of Tourism - the extension of the area for the development of bank seats and of umbrellas and sunbeds, as well as the reduction of the corresponding costs. I would also like to refer to something that may have gone like this with the words CSCE and CSCE or PATT. I am sure Captain Vassilis Konstantakopoulos would be very happy if he lived today, this great Greek who set up the 'Costa Navarino' with a thousand labors, which really exists such an intervention to facilitate the development of the areas of integrated tourist development, with the elements that already exist with the USSR and the USSR. It is very important that we should be able to provide more and more environmentally friendly development. Also, extensions for the rooms are needed, these selfish ones, however, who have troubled too much people. As we also need to see permanent residence tourism in the example of Spain and Portugal with zero energy settlements, Minister. As also, these people must be able to have as permanent residence Greece, pensioners, as Spain and Portugal do, avoiding the bad examples there. Finally, the measures taken by the Government for workers are important. In this bill we support workers and entrepreneurs, but we do not have the feeling that we are living a normality and that we are not all losing. First, the Prime Minister tells us that we will pay evenly, and those who are weaker will pay less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u336	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u337	I'll be right back, Mr. President. So we see a draft law which shows how we should work and not just how we deal with the events that come and everyday life. He sees in front of the Ministry. This is the direction of the government and the Prime Minister, to take steps forward. Minister, even braver steps are needed without stereophobia, without intervention. Because, at least, we have to accept that we love the environment, we love sensible growth, the cyclical economy, as we all do. We don't blame anyone if he loves her less or more. But I do not think that Minister every morning who wakes up will think about how he will destroy the environment or how he will trouble the world to stay without tourism. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u338	Be well. Mrs Malama has the floor now from SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, then we still have three speakers. It will take the floor immediately after the Minister and, of course, the rapporteurs, if they want a second. There's a comfort of time, don't worry, and it's a very good mood. Please, Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u339	Ladies and gentlemen, we are today being called upon to discuss a bill on tourism, literally stumbling in the blanket and ignoring the screaming of agony among the people of tourism, tourist enterprises and thousands of workers who face the range of unemployment. At the same time, the Prime Minister's announcements and their supposed specialty by the Minister of Tourism left without answer the vast majority of the world of tourism. We have heard, Minister, that tourism first opens up by yachting and by hotels for twelve months, and we ask: Why are seasonal accommodation excluded again? What's the health difference between them and them? In relation to the camping you said they'd start on June 1st. What camping will these be? The twelve-month-olds or seasonals? Minister, there are other sanitary paradoxes in your yesterday's announcements and I am referring in particular to transport. Why do you allow international flights from Eleftherios Venizelos airport since 15 June, but from the airport "Macedonia" you open them on 1 July? Is there a health statement? Obviously not. In other words, should tourists want to visit Halkidiki at this time, should they fly to Athens and then travel to Halkidiki by road? Why? Why 'like Halkidiki doesn't it have' and we leave her lately as a surprise? Or why does northern Greece not generally belong to Greece? So it's another country? You said nothing about the countries of origin of tourists. We have been listening for so long to talk about bridges and bilateral agreements, but we do not yet know who these countries will be. Will the Balkan countries be in? The Prime Minister had a quadripartite conference with Bulgaria, Romania, Northern Macedonia, Serbia. What about these countries? What's he talking about in these teleconferences? We have no results for what is going to happen after all? What will happen with the countries of the European Union which impose quarantine on those citizens who return from abroad? Haven't these been discussed? Do you have anything to say about these matters? And as far as road tourism is concerned, you once again said nothing about when they open up the border. Halkidiki's hotel owners are preoccupied with the Balkan countries and do not know what to say to tourists who want to come by road. On road tourism, too, there is a number of sanitary paradoxes that are more important: Why on tourist buses and on CCTs, half of them are imposed, while on aeroplanes not half of them are imposed? What's the scientific logic in these arrangements? As far as the measures for tourism are concerned, we should not celebrate at all the 30 million euros you give for domestic tourism, when Italy gives EUR 500 directly to every Italian who chooses his country's tourist destination. We claim that 30 million - that is, not us - will change the data. But these, Minister, are a drop in the ocean. We also heard about measures to support the tourist economy. Let me point out that from this package tourist businesses do not have much to expect. The reduction of the tax advance remains a vacant announcement and is referred for later, and the truth is that professionals who present their tax statements today see in the tax statements that they are required to pay a 100% deposit. As far as rent and insurance contributions are concerned, facilities end in June, while so-called equivalent tax reliefs to property owners go to the bells as well. The reductions in VAT relate to few species and are due to expire in September. This means that the tourist packages for next year will not include tax relief, as you are supposed to say, in 2021 we will have to pursue an aggressive recovery. The advance payment still does not include individual undertakings, i.e. a vast majority of Greek tourist enterprises, individual undertakings. But, above all, the workers in tourism are actually left to the mercy of the market. It has been announced that rotating workers will have heavy losses in their incomes and the next quarter. The work programme announced does not cover 50% of work covered by the Brutsi regulations. The allowance to be paid to these workers remains to see when you will do so, whether you will do so in time and, above all, what will be done by immersing the purchasing power of these workers and the recession that it will inevitably multiply. For the unemployed in the tourism sector, the Government did not accept the tourist world's request to extend the unemployment benefit to seasonal workers until April 2021. This means that those who work in tourism cannot work this summer, in September when the unemployment fund will be interrupted will go all winter hungry. Finally, while market opening professionals are intensified, there are still no health protocols on tourism except in leaks as in a newspaper earlier. I don't know if it's true you'll tell us later. And we ask this: we are eight days before the start of the operation of hotels and camping. Why aren't these health protocols? Why have these protocols not been crystallized for three months? Why does everything have to be done at the last minute, Minister? In conclusion, I would like to point out that, with the regulations that we have before us, the responsibility for the recession that will come is borne solely by the government, which, in its paradox decisions, plunges Greek tourism daily into literally deadlocks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u340	Thank you for the time too. Now Mrs. Kafantari has the floor from SYRIZA. Then there's Mr. Madas from New Democracy and we're finishing with Mr. Apostleu from SYRIZA. Then we'll continue with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that one of the main pillars of economic and global development is tourism. Especially in our homeland, tourism in the difficult memorial years has helped very much. We have reached 25% of GDP, as well as 25% of GDP. This is very important. More generally, however, it can be said that tourism makes a more general and social contribution, first of all, to understanding among the peoples, secondly, to intercultural dialogue, thirdly, building European and national identity. But it is facing real challenges today and not only today is a process of age. One of these is climate change, which threatens him and, above all, safeguarding ecosystems by developing tourism. That is why we need a sustainable model of tourism development. Recently, with the global pandemic, with this pandemic that we are experiencing, tourism is also threatened by it, and I think that its results are well known. In other words, COVID -19 also creates new data in the tourism sector. That is why our country, like all countries, must shield this tourism product. But how will that be? And it is not just the pandemic, the pandemic from which we all wish to go worldwide quickly. It is that there is a general need for a specific safeguard strategy, for the tourism product, for a strategy and for a policy that ensures tourism from any threats, because also for our country they can be geopolitical - and we understand - but it can be - and it can be - and the climate change that we all agree there is. It could be pandemics, like what we're experiencing today. So it takes a strategy, a concrete plan and, indeed, a tourism plan of three hundred sixty-five days a year. I say this because, in the government of SYRIZA, the Ministers and ladies and gentlemen, the motto of the Ministry of Tourism really was tourism three hundred and sixty-five days a year, multi-storey tourism, thematic tourism. We took an important step with a law that was passed in 2018 on thematic tourism. There included all forms of tourism, from walkers, physiodiphate, geotourism, medical, thermal, diving, which is the title of the bill we are discussing today. In fact, it is very important that we have this logic and that we draw up a national strategy that ensures three hundred and sixty-five days a year for our tourism product. We do not legislate, as you do with this bill, namely, fragmentary and opportunistic. We have a specific strategy, but it must take advantage of our country's comparative advantages. One of these comparative advantages is its rich biodiversity, its natural wealth. And let us not forget that today is a global day for biodiversity. The European Union is heading towards the process of safeguarding, restoring ecosystems, preserving and further enriching biodiversity. It has decided two days ago on a European biodiversity strategy, with specific objectives and with specific funding of EUR 20 billion a year - to tell you in particular - for the 2020-2030s. Here, in our homeland, it's exactly the opposite. But the European Union goes elsewhere with this government that it has today. We have the environmental law, which has recently been passed. We have always had this law on tourism, which is in the same direction. There is no guarantee of biodiversity but another blow to the rich natural environment of our country. In fact, we call this bill as a handshake, a service of great tourist interests. There are fragmentary and opportunistic arrangements that do not give a perspective to our country's tourism product. The pandemic is being used - which is exist and no one can deny it or deny that concrete measures must be taken, and they have been taken and we must now continue - but these measures must only be for this time. Here you enter a regulation on the cavalry - I will not repeat them, as they have been discussed since the morning - and in fact you do not mention instruments when these measures expire, i.e. the extension of the use of the cavalry by businesses, the difficulty of accessing the sea, which is also a constitutional right. No expiry date. It's like you did at work, which, by the way, you've actually changed labour law. You have that very logic. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the Prime Minister yesterday made announcements about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. He said about tourism. He announced some measures. However, these measures are minimal and do not move in the direction to be used to support small and medium-sized enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism. Let us not forget that around seven hundred thousand workers exist in the food and tourism sector, and these people in tourism do not know whether, as my colleague said before, they will be in the unemployment fund and will be paid for. Your measures are so far, really opportune, and on the contrary it was required, as we had warned on time and there was the budget - because, fortunately, SYRIZA left a reserve unlike New Democracy, which left funds behind - to provide an immediate unpaid advance of about EUR 3 billion in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. And on television, we'll see small and medium-sized people in tourism, and wherever he sees it, so will we. We are interested in the company staying, so that we can work the best we have to do next year. I fear that these measures will lead to the closure of many businesses. That's a sketchy business. The Ministry of Tourism through this bill appears as the regulator of the largest part of the country. There is no Ministry of the Environment, Ministry of Culture, Shipping, Island Policy and their Ministers here. We see the Ministry of Tourism regulate everything. There are issues of constitutionality in relation to forests. There are too many regulations and violations of forest laws. There are issues of maritime planning, of the Aegean islands, as I have said before, and a number of issues which are serious, as is the issue of culture. The integrated maritime policy, the Water Directive, the common fisheries policy - I refer to diving tourism - is not mentioned anywhere and you have not taken into account the comments of the operators who raised issues at the second meeting. But the absence of the Ministry of Culture is important. What does the Archaeological Service say about the regulations you make on diving tourism, which you are effectively squandering? Do you agree to have the first word in underwater archaeology? SYRIZA, stopped privatising the archaeological sites, created a specific framework and took steps to visit an archaeological site. But you are downgrading the role of the public, indirectly degrading the Archaeological Service.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u342	My colleague, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u343	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, how can we believe you when you said that tourists coming will be inspected for the virus, and right now you say that the checks will be performed on a sample basis? In the islands - Mr Ministers and the Prime Minister who is also an island - the inhabitants are concerned, they are very concerned about this. They took all the steps they had to take, obeying the orders of the EGE, the state, and worrying about what will happen tomorrow, when there are no hospital structures on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u344	Mrs. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u345	I shall close with one word, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. It was heard by many - and by my colleagues from SYRIZA - that the government has no plan. Let me say that in this bill too, with the fragmentary arrangements, the unclear, the clipboards, all these features, it shows that it has a plan. And I fear that your plan is the extermination of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the service of friends through photographic provisions and, of course, the prevalence of the logic expressed by your Government's Minister for the Interior: whoever survives the crisis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u346	Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, it is Friday 10 at night, I am a little elastic because there is a mood for colleagues to speak. There's never been a meeting before. So I'm elastic, as you can see. Time is there. Mr Mandash also has the floor with tolerance, as is Mr Apostolos and the Minister afterward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for many years the main strategy that our country has had - as regards the development of our tourism product - has been focused on the double-track sun - sea. And, of course, this was a duplicate which, for some years now, may have worked in our country and had positive results, but we all realise that it is not enough and that is not enough, because the demands on tourism have grown, growth must become even greater, but also, at the same time, it has changed the demand for visitors. It is therefore a matter of concern and it is for all of us, I think, fundamentally, that the tourist season should be extended to our country. We have crowding phenomena in August and July in our country's tourist regions. There is a multitude of visitors, with the result that they cannot get to know the areas they visit, and do not serve, but above all there is an important weakness in providing high quality services from the businesses that host them. I think that, in the period of July and August, we, in particular, are seeing it from tourist regions and experience it every year, and almost nothing works from the overcrowded world that comes to our regions. At the same time, in many small tourist communities the environmental footprint left by these tourists over a certain period of time is economically disproportionate in relation to the income they generate from their visit. I do not mean, of course, that we should abandon our main offer, which is and will remain summer beach tourism, sun and sea for the foreseeable future. In addition, however, we can compose an indulging offer of integrated experiences, which has an increasing demand, even in summer months, and try to recover as much as we can in the lost months of spring and autumn. Diving tourism is an alternative product that, along with the traditional seasonal model, can offer a significant value for quality but also economic, because it attracts tourists to higher education and social levels and is substantiatedly more prosperous, and is also aimed at the off-peak period, that is, in May, April, March, October and perhaps November in some areas. But is it enough to develop dive tourism to say that we have covered the alternative forms of tourism in our country? No, of course not enough. It is an important step, but it is not enough. We have the luck of living in a blessed country rich in natural reserves. We must finally use all these resources available to our country for the benefit and development of tourism. Agro-food tourism, conference, religious, medical, cultural, cycling, climbing, all alternative forms of tourism can flourish in our country and can be supported, if we create a network of partnerships with the state, self-government, businesses, citizens, to be sustainable and on a development path. This bill, in addition to diving tourism, also brings developmental arrangements, because it modernises the framework for the areas of integrated tourism, and because I have heard various things said by the Opposition about 'Costa Navarino' and about alleged interests, I want to tell you a little story because it is from my prefecture and I have lived in close proximity. The late captain Vassilis Konstantakopoulou thirty-five years ago had a vision to place Messinia, Peloponnese, Greece on the world tourist map. Do you know when he made it? Twenty-five years later. Twenty-five years he fought to create this unit - model there in Messiah. How proud can we all feel about this? How many other pedestrians like Captain Vassilis did not have his stubbornness and perseverance, did they not have the tolerance to wait for so many years and left our country and investments? Because this man had the stubbornness and love for his place, he succeeded with his persistence, even after twenty - five years, to do so. How many have we lost? How many such investments have we lost all these years because of bureaucracy, due to the idea of many parties and people and governments? Do we have room to lose such investments? Do we have room to leave behind all that we can have in our area? Of course not. I heard something about the environment, about the opposition being bailed. Can it coexist with the environment with investment growth? Of course he can. Not only can it, but in my assessment of sustainable development investments must be based on environmental protection. It is another thing to try to impose environmental fascism on potential business immunity over the years. It's completely different things. Let's put it all down and devise a plan so we can coexist. And we can coexist. I would like to make a few comments on the positions of colleagues in opposition, on support measures and small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I see the concern of SYRIZA colleagues for small and medium-sized businessmen, and indeed I wonder: dear colleagues, where was your agony over the years when you ran, when you took VAT from 13% to 24%? Where was your concern for the freelance professionals when you increased the tax advance from 75% to 100%? When you increased income tax, where was your agony? When you abolished the low VAT rate on the islands, where was your agony? Where was your agony when you targeted excellence on the free profession and linked income to insurance contributions? Where was your agony when you led to tax suffocation hundreds of thousands of businesses? Are you now coming into the crisis to raise the flag in favour of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and private initiative in our country and you think you can be believed in it? You have not realised that even today, in this difficult economic crisis, professionals and entrepreneurship in our country are aware of who he cares about and who he believes in the private initiative, so that he can grow next day. Because they have lived with our Government since the first day, when we have reduced rates of taxation, when we have reduced significant taxes, to really strengthen entrepreneurship and the private economy in our country. In conclusion, I would like to say that the draft law adds another important stone to turning all our tourist capital into experience, because tourism, ladies and gentlemen, is an experience. It is the need for each visitor to experience a new experience. So these experiences, our Greece can offer them simple and make a mix, that is to say create conditions, so that we can achieve a mix of emotions. Think of a visitor who comes to our country, visits great parts of our country, with an excellent natural environment, tastes our unique gastronomic creations, knows our local products, knows our local hospitality. All this creates a unique experience that must do our best ambassador when he leaves and goes to his country. In this we must all invest and I think that Greece has the advantage of being the country that stands out in this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u348	Mr. Apostleo has the floor now. Minister, I will now take some time to tell you, by listening to my fellow Members, that I think it is very important that what has been said and other colleagues that tourism has helped in recent years. From the crisis to this day it has brought 150 billion to the country. Perhaps we also need to see medical tourism, which has not been legislated exactly and cannot help and does not help coming to thousands of tourists in Greece. Now you're government. You've got to put it into practice already.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u349	We agree and sign up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u350	I do not want to go into this procedure because I am President-in-Office. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Manda, it was our agony to get the country out of the crisis, from the memorials, with society standing up and at the same time, to ensure a budgetary pillow so that the country can get on a new path. Ladies and gentlemen, the approach to the impact of pandemic on the country's economic activity with the logic of the government'seeing and doing' has finally brought what we feared, its deeply anti-virtual policy: In the first phase, to reduce private sector earnings by 20%, to introduce rotating work and to impose a complete dismantling of labour relations. The worst of these days is in my country, Evia, both from LARCO, which leads workers to unemployment with the well-known Hatzidakis amendment and from TERNA to Mandudi, where there workers are driven to unemployment by the looting of voluntary exits. I come to the bill and, more specifically, to its provisions relating to land and archaeological sites, historical sites, protected areas of NATURA, marine flora and fauna, forests and forests. You give the image of a clear vineyard in the world, a Greek that does not hesitate to sacrifice the environment and culture. Many of the articles are in direct contrast with the laws in force and the Constitution, and they will certainly be suppressed in the Council of State. One of these was Article 31, which concerned the withdrawal of the reafforestation obligation, which you took back. You were forced, Minister, to withdraw it. It was obvious yesterday that I watched you support this arrangement. It is clear, therefore, that Article 117(3) of the Constitution is clearly stated: ‘Forests and forest areas that have changed use are automatically declared resurrectable’. Do not attempt such procedures again, because there is such a case-law that will already be rejected in advance. I come to another omission of yours, Minister. Why have you not predicted that if the designation of a marine area as a dive park relates to an area which has been set up by presidential decree as an Organised Rural Development Area, the known PDOs or an area for which a PDO is pending, a specific agreement of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is required? Don't you know that special compatibility rules are required? Is it possible for a sector, a export champion, to be in front of problems that hamper its spatial planning in the context of its sustainable development? The other is this: Can it be determined as a lease for the sea area to be granted to diving parks - we agree, we have no different view - from EUR 5 to EUR 20 per acre and to aquaculture, which are one of the best productive activities in the primary sector, EUR 150 to EUR 180 per acre? So will you help a sector that, on the one hand, because of a coronary in Italy and, on the other, because of the devaluation of the pound in Turkey, is facing enormous problems? I come to the specific forms of tourism, which, of course, are not just dives. It is mainly those forms which can exploit the many advantages of the countryside by highlighting new innovative tourist activities. They are the ones established by the SYRIZA government in December 2018, with the law on thematic tourism and its specific forms. I will stand primarily on rural tourism, not only because it responds to the great problem of the tourist area, which is the possibility of services throughout the year, but also because, as a mild form of tourism and rural development, it brings the resident of the city into the village's environment and enables him to become integrated into local conditions. Biodiversity, history, tradition, gastronomy, culture, villages, traditions, local festivals all make up a local uniqueness in every form and expression. We, unfortunately, in Greece, have linked rural tourism only to the hostels. That's not what we're talking about. We must aim to the people of the countryside, the natural environment and the stimulation of rural life, so that the mountain villages and disadvantaged areas of the country cease to be devastated. I mention such forms of agricultural tourism: Greek tourism, multifunctional farms, gastronomic tourism. Because, Mr President, you said that we have a relatively comfortable time, let me make a reference to two characteristic walks, so to relax a little: for example: a walk in a wine-growing zone, with a glass of wine at the end of the road, in a winery. It is a relatively new form of tourism, many promising and fully in line with the natural environment that aims to make a genuine acquaintance with each place, through the tradition of winery and winery. Second example: a hiking on a mountainous path, which passes through an ovine and caprine unit which ends in a cheese factory for testing the PDO feta, a geographical indication of our country, which is one of the characteristic cases of organising gastronomic travel. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. This and much more can be done by the Greek countryside and must certainly be served through a multitude of coexistence activities between the two areas, the primary sector and tourism, which is now a one-way road. These forms of tourism, Minister, do not give it, especially to its big people, for the sole reason: why have they done the process, all inclusive, theorem. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u352	Mr. Comrade, come to Arcadia. We have a great route in Mainalo, where you will end up eating, drinking, and whatever it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u353	Do you have dives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u354	Scuba dives we have on the Tyre. It's a matter that we're moving on. We're very organized in Arcadia. Even you, the Minister of Tourism, can't arrest the size. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u355	Put 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u356	You have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u357	The truth is that a lot of issues have been raised. We can't solve everything. Some are unresolved because they have nothing to do with real questions. If anyone doesn't want to understand something, he won't understand it no matter how much you explain it. I'm listening for sloppy. What other side of the problem is to have two criticisms - not to mention names, there is no reason - on the side of SYRIZA in relation to the trademarks of seasonal officials and winter, when Mr Brutsis himself presented his presentation the day before yesterday, where I saw him - the presentation shared with everyone, all journalists had it and entered the site - he said that the obligations of the press for seasonal employees would be reduced for winter. We're not leaving the tourist workers in their luck. We're not leaving them to food workers. Another criticism was when it was heard that we withdrew the article, which relates to forests and compensation, while this article was not withdrawn. This article remains, is 33 - and not 31 which has been withdrawn - and it clarifies that when an intervention is approved in a forest, when there is authorisation for intervention and for this operation there are apparently cutting out some trees, the compensation is for the whole area of the forest, regardless of how much you have affected, to how much you have intervened. And reafforestation is for the part that you have affected, which you have cut the trees, as it makes sense, and as it was actually written, but vague between ministerial decisions and laws, and that is why every office did what it thought it understood. Wonderfully? Random? I don't know, and it doesn't matter. We don't make environmental laws. We are simply correcting the ambiguities so that the laws that are currently in force can go ahead. What I would like to say is that I am very pleased and grateful because both of the institutions and of all the wings we have had very good criticism on many points. I would like to believe that the many changes we have made and the legislative improvements which have taken account of this criticism show that, for our part, there has also been good will, open ears, to correct any flaws, ambiguities, anything that was in the bill to make it better. This includes suggestions from archaeologists, for it sounds a lot about archaeologists and others. After I said this positive, let me start with the most colossal we have had throughout this period, because I would like to refer to three - everything - things in my speech: the first is this whole debate on unconstitutionality. The second is the bill and the changes we are making, because we strongly support it and have worked in this bill with the political leadership, with the State Secretary, who is here. And the third is the re-start programme, the Restart Tourism, for which we have heard a number of criticisms, and I am not sure it is always the right viewpoint. I have said a few things about unconstitutionalism, and I will not repeat these things again, which I said in committee. You don't think it's unconstitutional. If you believed it, you'd object to unconstitutionalism. It's a given that you don't believe it and you don't know it. If you had any arguments, then you'd tell the House. There is a procedure under the Rules of Procedure of the House. That's the first and the biggest proof. I will only be in two places: one is all this talk about whether we maintain control over the aerial antiquities or whether we privatise them. The second point is that of BSE, the seven hundred measures that we are supposed to be abolishing, to which I have not referred to in committee. There is no question of unconstitutionality for Article 6 or 13. It is not contrary to the Constitution, there is no transfer of powers to any other institution. The Embassy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport fully retains its competence as a management body of all the archaeological archaeological sites, such as the DC of the Agency of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In particular, I read: "Between competences and measures to protect and safeguard deep-sea antiquities and to monitor and control national and foreign organisations or individuals of all kinds of submarine research and activities." That's what she does, that's what her Agency says, and that's what she's going to do. There is no question of unconstitutionality. The same applies to Article 13, because it remains the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport in managing diving parks and sites when they have ancient antiquities. After all, Parliament's scientific report does not mention unconstitutionalism at these points. That's the first. A second point on unconstitutionalism: the definition of specific conditions for the construction of RITs perimeter. Already RITs, like all organised activity receptors, are considered special spatial plans. Well, you've been telling us for three days that we're not talking about special spatial plans. All provisions for WITD are provisions for specific spatial plans and are classified at the same level of design as local spatial plans. This results from L.4447/2016. Do we remember who was ruling in 2016? The avoidance of conflicts of land use belongs to the fundamental purposes of spatial planning and must be resolved as soon as possible, ideally during the initial planning phase. It is already foreseen by Law 4447/2016 that local spatial plans can identify land-use control areas around productive and business areas, such as RITs, in order to rationalise the distribution and correlation of land use to avoid conflicts and uncontrolled consumption of natural resources. This is all provided for by the country's basic planning. We're going back to this point at least. However, since general planning can be long delayed, the same result can be achieved at a much earlier stage in order to prevent situations that are already born. The very possibility we give in this bill applies to the Organised Development Areas of Productive Activities - PDO - by the 1986 Act. In any case, we must say the following: in relation to the possibility of setting the limits, which - not least - may be smaller, because we have heard the criticism that we are taking the individual's right by setting out in the Presidential Decree: but the Presidential Decree may set three hundred measures, because that is the specific morphological features. So, now, whatever it is, if it's on an island, if it's on the mainland, if it's on the mountain, if it's on some, seven hundred meters, whatever it is? Here is the problem, with the existing provision, not the one we introduce. Let us not forget - and I say again - that this possibility is defined for the state. The state will define by the presidential decree, with all the security controls, a SPS, a processing by the Council of State, a preventive control of constitutionality that whatever limit is set, is the right one. So there is no constitutional issue. Let me tell you again one point about the constitutionality which I mentioned in the committee: this whole matter with golfing. Again, since the 1970s, tourist facilities, ski resort, golfing on a forest are permitted. What was not clear is the conditions for building, and that is what we now define with Article 32. That is what we make clear, so that it is not those investors who want to make golf, the ravages of any interpretation. When a multiple rate is allowed for forests for tourist facilities and this provision has been decided in accordance with the Constitution, and now we are setting a sub-multiple rate, 1/10, at golf establishments, will this be considered unconstitutional? Your problem - I think - with one word we can say it. Your problem is not that the provisions we bring are unconstitutional. Your problem is that the Constitution allows these provisions. With the Constitution, you have a problem, not with our laws. You must solve this in another way, not here. Now, I'm going back to the point, because these were the hardest, most crusading ones. However, I am returning because what I am holding is goodwill and better regulation, which we had in this legislative process. It is a happy time that the vote on this bill is now that we are discussing the relaunching of Greek tourism, now that all foreign media are talking about Greece, about our success. If they call us about something, you know what it is? "Why is our country not in what you allow them to come?" That's what foreign journalists are asking us for. “Why do you have us on this list? This list, however, does not exist!' I stress it from the Step of the House: a list of countries we expect doctors. The Government of the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, first puts security in place and will put it today that the country will slowly lift the restrictions. First security. Doctors will set the criteria. The doctors will tell us who these countries are. They haven't told us yet. It's a bill that serves the core of development, what we want now. Why? Because it satisfys and serves one of the dominant trends of global tourism, thematic tourism, particularly here, diving, but also glambing. It boasts the needs of the business world, upgrades Greece's image worldwide, attracts tourists of a high income level, contributes to the expansion of the tourist season, but ensures protection, preservation and exploitation of the natural and cultural underwater environment. In particular, the demarcation of marine archaeological sites is carried out by a decision of the competent bodies of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. A Interministerial and Scientific Council is set up with expanded executive powers and involving representatives from all the co-legislators responsible for the tourism strategy, not for bureaucracy, not to have competences, not to take responsibility from the public. We define and demarcate the notion of 'diving tourist sites'. We are systemifying the definitions of these tools, which are divestment tourism. For the first time, we have made it possible for the public to access all kinds of ancient archaeological sites, because until now, it has only been allowed with the accompaniment of two archbishops. From now on, visitors will be able to tour with accompaniment to certified diving service providers. That's why we didn't have parks. It was forbidden to be three miles from any archaeological site, even the visit. But three miles with so many ancient things our country has...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u358	It was just for the archaics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u359	But the archaeologists want that to be away from the lights, away from cameras. We stopped plundering? Have you been to Cataco in the ancients that have disappeared for decades? So we release diving into free artificial submarine attractions. We facilitate the licensing procedures for visiting archaeological sites. We offer incentives for the establishment and operation of diving sights. Thus, artificial submarine attractions can be integrated into grants programmes from European and international programmes. We are creating a regulatory framework for snorkeling, which was not there, for armaments providers and educational staff. We are simplifying procedures, abolishing compulsory Greekism, as we have also been in contradiction with European legislation. We are establishing a framework, amending a set of diving park provisions by simplifying procedures, removing signatures. I removed my signature. I do not bring a bill that adds responsibilities, I remove, because our country needs quick decisions, which do not fit into signatures. In the second part of the bill, we are moving into developmental arrangements. Special care for the legal framework, for the RITs. We bring them to the RESIDA, a framework that SYRIZA has primarily exploited and developed. We are dealing with improvements to the port facilities, with glaming, which finally acquires a signal, with chronological issues, on the issues of the sanctuary and the beach. I'm sure the Treasury will also bring a broader framework, a bill on public property, and that's where it's going to see all the issues more fully. Because, obviously, there are some objections, but you understand that the period is starting and the necessary changes must be made so that we can move forward. For the swimming pools, we've heard and changed. We have put the sanitary limit on the pool in about one and a half metres, so that there can be a seafarer with full-time jobs, while under one and a half metres there is no need for an exclusive-employer. The ambassador of Greek tourism, a process that everyone can understand. Antetokunbo - I say an example, I don't know if he would be or want to be - is a man who brings more people to meet our country and love and want to come from where he is, with all that he does, advertising our country. That honorable title shouldn't be given to him, wouldn't he? Of course, by taking all possible measures to relaunch tourism, we are introducing a provision whereby, firstly, we can establish in the next few days health protocols, hotel protocols and all tourist businesses, and secondly, we are introducing a very important provision in relation to civil liability. What many, especially hoteliers ask me, is what will happen with civil responsibility, what happens if someone sticks the coroner to the hotel. Will he go back and ask for money? With this very important provision, we make it clear that there is no responsibility for the hotel and tourist business, to the extent that it follows the operating protocols, which we are establishing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u360	For the focus, Minister, do the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u361	For the focus, if you ask me, I would be absolutely positive. It's not our responsibility. We have conveyed the request because it has come to us at the heart of the matter, and it is clear that, with bulbs the provision that we made, I am sure it can be extended to the focus area as well. Let us say a few words about the protocols, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes of the House, so that there is no misunderstanding. Apparently, you've been asking for them urgently. The protocols are here. My colleague, Mrs Kyriakopoulou, worked overnight - especially for them - with the Health Committee to enable this work to come, which is very difficult. It is a job in which international developments had to be closely monitored, what they say, what can be done, what will happen with regard to doctors, of course, but also with regard to the needs of the whole market. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned protocols, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The protocols include an action plan for each tourist accommodation, in particular for the event of a crisis, for the management of a possible case. A coordinator shall be appointed to supervise the implementation of the Protocol and to be responsible for each individual section. It shall be specified that the staff are trained in compliance with the Protocol. E-learning is recommended and monitoring is mandatory. Cooperation with a doctor trained for coronary tests is defined. It is possible to certify the accommodation and to take measures to prevent and treat COVID -19 by accredited certification bodies. Separate protocols are included for each part of the accommodation, reception services, floor services, rooms and communal areas, washing machines, dining room, catering, recreational areas, spas and communal facilities. Health rules for swimming pools, use of air conditioners and open and closed accommodations are laid down. An action plan for organised camps and camping is also set out. Finally, protocols are in force for both tourist buses and car rental companies. These protocols are complete. We are one of the first countries to adopt them today, as I mentioned a little in the committee, and they have asked me to do so by the World Tourism Organization, because we are in the lead. At some point, we must be proud of what we achieve as a country. This micro-political controversy does not need to be kept up. Why do we need the protocols? Because the plan to relaunch Greek tourism is based on constant health care, it is based on security. The New Democracy Government will not dismiss security. It'll be our first priority again. Why are we going through - and here I shall use the words from the Prime Minister's proclamation - 'from the stage of health planning with support of the economy, to the stimulation of the economy with constant regard to health'? This is today's stage. The integrated plan is based on the following principles: Health rules for which countries will come from which countries, with which priority, because in Athens and when in the other airports. Now to answer the obvious, why only on 15 June in Athens? Because civil protection can have better control over the first 15 days, see that we're going well? Don't we understand that we're gradually opening up to get health first? That is the constant confusion. On the one hand, you say, "Go ahead, you're opening everything" and on the other, "Why don't you open Halkidiki"? Pick. Both can't do it. You say "take a lot of risks, but you let the economy fall, die". Find a point of criticism and you're bored, not from both sides. Only my scales! The plan says: Health rules for who and how to get in. Strong protocols for his trip and stay here. Civil protection remains strong with its systems. Nikos Chardalias, who is very successful in this crisis, is called upon to transform the role of civil protection in order to monitor and quickly deal with these issues when we have cases. Operational plan to transfer funds from the Ministry of Health from the areas with a few tourists to areas with many tourists. Twenty analysts for the islands to make the tests closer to the hotels. Six hundred COVID beds. Some already exist, some will be made at this time. Finally, an operational plan presented today by the Port, special EAEC type vessels, hospital port ships, which will be able to transport tourists and citizens from the islands to infrastructural islands. So the map of the country is covered. Whether the island itself has coverage, either the mainland or a large island, such as Crete, has a strong coverage or a small island is covered by another such as Antiparos from Paros. With this plan, we have safe tourism, which will not cause any problems. We will be here to review it and get the doctors' instructions on how to make this plan even better. We won't stop. Financial measures. I will not go any further into what we have said about liquidity, about the unemployed, about businesses, about their tax obligations and other obligations, about competitiveness, about VAT. That's not enough. Okay. They'll never reach you. But do you have the money for more measures? You don't have them. It's the money. Because I'm going to say this. I see four kinds of criticism in the plan. They do not want the rapporteurs to understand, so I do not think it is worth answering to the individual. Let's see the big picture. First kind of criticism, only communication. Mr. Spirji told us. Just communication, no substance. There's no substance. Really? The dead we have escaped, our curve that is like this, and it is not upwards, all we do, the fact that we have the epidemiologists and we are looking at one - one of the CARs of the economy, how will they open up and in what way and we are constantly solving problems, the fact that we have a civil protection that controls every one who enters our airports, is not a substance? Is it communication? It's a government that makes a magical picture, and from behind are our hospitals full! Only that government has substance. I wish he had more communication. I need to. But it is the government of substance, not communication, because he is Mr. Mitsotakis, this is the Prime Minister. He's a man who cares about the essence and the truth. Second review: More money. I heard Mr. Santorinios say about 26 billion. It says: 'We've reached 24, so it's the same'. First of all, the old movie said: 'Stop it, glass and damage.' Whoever went up to the Step would throw a billion. At $26 billion. Santorinis went up and said to put a billion dollars on domestic tourism to catch, 27 billion. And we were coming up. SYRIZA said 26 billion. In the first month of the month, we could fire March - and then, of course, it would take ECU 26 billion. In April, a total of 52 billion. Now that we're in May, we're gonna need another $26 billion, so $78 billion. in general. That's how I know how to make savings. Third kind of review: Your plan is insecure, you open it all, batter dogs salt. I proved that. I have demonstrated how much you act only on what the experts tell us and we will monitor what the experts tell us, but it is a disease that is evolving, says something study and can later another study, more thorough, say something else. We'll be here watching and listening to doctors. The last criticism: 'There is an economic disaster, you do nothing, people cry, it hurts, it is destroyed'. These two, as I said before, are contradictory. I close with that because it is the most essential one, because here is the ideological difference, which separates us from the others. These two are contradictory. We cannot cry about the economic disaster and, at the same time, say not to open up the economy, because we may have insecurity, risk, and health damage. But are they contradictory? I don't think so. I think you want both. You want and close the country on the pretext of risk, so that there is an economic disaster, because that is the state you can understand, the state in which they are all unemployed and coming to the Minister to give them the unemployment benefit. Oh, no. We open up the economy, we do it safely, and I and Minister Consolas and Secretary Lulis and EOT and all of us will not stop, and I am sure every minister will come out to open the last business. We will give interviews, we will speak with our counterparts, we will work with other countries, we will do everything we can to bring the last potential tourist safely so that most of our fellow citizens can find work. Because the only chance for the economy really to rely and not to find it before us is to start standing on its feet. If you want it, too, be Rhodes, behold the fuck. Vote this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u362	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the House is told that the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizens' Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs and Maritime Affairs have today tabled a draft law on 22-05-2020: 'Regions of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food for the upgrading and modernisation of the agricultural sector'. It shall be referred to the committee responsible. Colleagues, rapporteurs, I did a check on the time you spoke to each other, and we said that we should put four minutes so that we can finish it, and I hope the Minister will not have to talk again. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor. Today you've broken every record. You've spoken, right, but too many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u363	In total, as Mera25, Mr President, we have kept too much time and, in fact, less than that is to me. Minister, we were generally mild in the process, in fact, because we saw that there was a tendency to correct errors in the bill, but that was completely exhausted. We've been waiting for more changes to be honest. You have raised us even with regard to unconstitutionalism. Given the parliamentary majorities and the government majority, you know that unconstitutionality would bring us a debate that would result in a result which would have nothing to do with objectivity. The constitutionality of this bill will, of course, be judged in the Council of State. I want you to know, however, that after you ask us to put unconstitutionalism as a PART25, we will look into it very carefully in all the next environmental bills you bring. Specifically for Article 7 and the issues of the Single Antiquities, I would like you to reply to us at least when L.4611 predicts that the archaeological sites are things off-trading, how can you join a dive park in return? When Mrs Kefaliannis said, on behalf of the New Democracy, that monuments are not traded, what did she mean? That you're gonna rent them? For golf, clearly bring a new kind of structure into the forests. For the POTAs, you did not answer us if it was about 'COSTA NAVARINO', although it was clear, all your Members who, after the report, came out to defend 'COSTA NAVARINO'. It is a pity, because your non-response and the way Members have spoken leaves you a shadow at 'COSTA NAVARINO'. You should explain to us whether it is a photographic device for this. In order to exclude citizens from beaches and cayalo are words referred to in the article 'Kathemerini', you have also not in fact responded. In order to privatise the public administration, through the transformation of the HEIDE, to the Planning Authority of Tourist Ports, we are now going to privatise the government itself. You didn't answer either. In Article 8, despite the addition of the environmental impact study, the concept of enrichment of underwater flora and fauna remains very strong. We hope at least that the studies that will be carried out are correct. Finally, I would like to conclude with one key question: where was Mr Hatzidakis all along in this process? It hides after the social outcry from the environmental bill. Where was Mrs. Mendoni? He's hiding. Minister, be careful, don't need the outcry from this bill, you'll have to hide too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u364	Thank you. Mr. Viliardos has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we have talked many times about the bill, we have said everything, we have tried to be raided, not just to make opposition, and I think we have done our best. What has not been understood and I would like to add it now is that our country definitely needs a change of economic model. Our economy is based only on two pillars: tourism, the direct revenue of which is also 18.2 billion in shipping, more generally transport, which brings us 17.3 billion. These two areas, together with the parallel benefits which our economy has, are about 40% of GDP. These two sectors are, unfortunately, capital intensive and procyclical. What does it mean by procyclicals? It means that, when the economy goes better, these two sectors go better, when the economy goes worse, they go much worse. So we led to the crisis in 2008 and saw the results, so we are today and we will see the results at the end of the year, because now it is too early to decide. The second issue concerns tourism, which everyone insists is our heavy industry. We have said many times, but it has not been understood, that it is not industry, it is services. What is the service disadvantage? That it employs unskilled staff, with low wages and even, because we do not have a productive sector, most of the products bought by our tourism businesses are imports, so that we do nothing at all, because most of the currency is leaving abroad. The third issue concerns the TIAD and Article 26, which we said was unconstitutional. I would like, once again, to place myself on this issue. The GOI is a subsidiary of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court knows that it has the CFSF, i.e. banks, it has the EBRD, the real estate of the public, which, from what I have seen, in the general balance sheets of the House, is the estimate for laughter, as thousands of properties are estimated at an average value of 13,000 euros of real estate or even smaller ones, and the third is the TSE. The HICP has on its board two foreigners and three Greeks. To make a decision, they have to agree the 4/5 of the board of directors, which means that if foreigners do not want, nothing happens. We are not, therefore, allowed to give the GOI the design. The design is a state function, it must remain in the state and we cannot give it to private individuals and, indeed, to those who have taken all our public property and do what they want, literally. The fourth issue concerns measures. You have said many times, they have been announced by too many different measures. We have heard from the Minister of Finance about financial measures of 6.8 billion. Then the Prime Minister said 10 billion. Then we heard about 14 billion, and today we hear about 24 billion. What we are asking and no answer has been given is to tell us exactly how much financial measures are, how much cash, how much guarantees and how much foreign aid. We want to know exactly how much is available. We would also like to know, at least every month, how much of these measures are being implemented, how much is being done. It is not enough to say numbers and at the end we do not know whether they have been done. Next, it's about the focus. It is not possible to think that you support the focus by reducing VAT on coffee and refreshments. It's funny. The second thing about the focus is that you want to support the focus by reducing the rent. That means you're burdening property owners. It's not right. You cannot make politics, if you are a liberal government, with other people's money. You have to make a policy with the money that you can make available. Besides, restaurant owners themselves are asking for a rent subsidy. They're not asking for anything else. In other words, they are not asking for the rent to be reduced by the owners, because they know very well that the owners will not want it. In addition, I wanted to stress, because you have said many times that your Government is liberal and not neoliberal, that it is clearly neoliberal, at the time that it sells what it has and does not have in private, which creates monopolistic or oligopolistic situations. So she's clearly neoliberal. You said earlier that, today, everyone talks about Greece. I remind you that in 2004 everyone talked about Greece. Indeed, we had a great success in 2004 and we saw where we ended up. Today's government's outcome will appear at the end of the year. Also, how much communication and how much substance is, they will appear in numbers at the end of the year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I would like to mention something about a particular county, for the local community of Lipochori of the Municipality of Skydras, who have not received ELGA compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u366	What does this have to do with the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u367	Just to be heard by the government. I want to say a word. If it doesn't bother you, it doesn't matter. If it bothers you, all right. This particular community has not taken over last year's damage. It has only been compensated for at 65% and is up to 35%. This year, it seems that ELGA does not compensate for cherries and compact peaches, despite the announcement of a specific support package. I say this because the community told me and I think we should support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u368	I announced a bill. Mr. Vorides will be here from week to week and you'll be able to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u369	Yes, Mr President, but it is urgent for the community and I wanted to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u370	I fully understand you. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u371	I will not go into the process of repeating things which, for four days, our parliamentary group, and from our own point of view and the parliamentary representative and Christo Katsotis, I think we have fully developed our views on this project and our proposals, which have been tabled. All I have to say about this bill is that the Government's intention for a bill, which is both counter-agricultural and anti-environmental and overall anti-grassroots, is to pursue concrete objectives: investment activities of selective tourism, high incomes, away from and beyond the real urgent needs and rights of our people for recreation and rest. Mr President, may I turn to the amendment with a general number of 305 and a special number 2 with regard to the granting of public space for the development of bank seats. For four days and especially today, the other parties spilled crocodile tears, showed incredible sympathy for the self-employed, for the professionals in the field of focusing, etc. What's proving? It turns out that the measures taken by the government and the proposals from the SYRIZA are inadequate. You know, when the government now considers that it is doing any revolutionary act, which provides shared spaces for the development of banking seats, it seems to be a lazy, as a board of salvation, for the professional in the field of focusing, when it literally sinks and is ready to put a padlock. It is therefore a maximum hypocrisy on the part of the government. He's doing this to ash the eyes of professionals in the catering field. No relationship, that is to say, has with the real needs of these people at the moment. There are thousands of focus professionals who have generalized deadlocks. The problems inhibited by these operators are particularly acute, about 80% of companies based on ELSTAT's data - they do not say that the JRC is elements of ELSTAT - while the micro-enterprise in the field of take away and delivery and many other activities are very much reduced. This infamous allowance, the octacosari, was not given to these people. It was not given March and April, it was not given in May. In other words, the mere fact that the government could do is the mere allowance for those who have suspended their business. Secondly, these people have fixed expenses. Damage, rents, which remain increased and demanded, while current income is not enough to meet basic family needs and much of their supplies have already been destroyed. In view of the decision to open the shops on 1 June, while maintaining the necessary restrictions, as announced, it is assumed that this particular measure does not cover them or is not sufficient, to say otherwise, and that they are going to a real disaster. We have tabled a specific question since 15 May precisely on these issues, which our questions illustrate the concerns and ways and claims of the focus area. Let me say that if you were actually implementing some of them or even one of them, you would see that there would be no value in granting the room for the bank seats or in any case that would not be such a buckle solely for this. For example, to be exempt from individual insurance contributions for the months that have been imposed, without any reduction in pension and insurance rights. To be exempted from the payment of municipal fees, all without asterisks and conditions. In other words, even in this amendment you are establishing conditions for the exemption of bank charges. Ensure that the professionals of the industry and in general the self-employed are reintroduced in the 12,000 euro tax-free rate while abolishing the ENPI, the trade fee and starting from 2019. To ensure cheap invoices and to ban holidays in the water. Auctions, seizures to prohibit and delete some of the accumulated debts into taxes and banks. These are some of the measures that the government could have taken, but they are intolerable. I mean, the government gets sugar. When it comes to talking about the problems of workers, talking about the problems of the self-employed, whether they are in the focus, whether they are the taxi drivers or various other branches, there gets it cold sweat. Why? Because he's got a class mark. He has promised industrialists, SETE, to the European Union that he should serve this policy, i.e. warm state money to the large monopolistic groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u372	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u373	So - and I am closing down with this - we are voting'residents' for this amendment. It is inadequate and poses many dangers, because - a final note - it will create many problems for people with disabilities and in many people, of course, because it will become an endless table and an endless chair with a thousand two problems. In any case, when the government has not done anything at all, at least we cannot say 'no' to this amendment. We shall say 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u374	Thank you. Mr. Francis from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u375	After an exhausting, I must confess to a conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u376	And we're not done yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u377	...many days, long hours, tiring days, I believe in everyone, we've come to the end. We are discussing a bill on diving tourism, but, of course, the whole debate has been extended far beyond this, about the problems that tourism faces and which are very large and often are unknown, because we do not know how they will go. We waited yesterday, Minister, the Prime Minister's interview and the statements made by the ministers. Unfortunately, however, the announcements seemed to have been much lower than what was announced. I say this because while you seem to be moving in the context of the philosophy of the proposals of the project we have made to you, you have moved superficially, without processing and in many respects you have said not enough. We have three objectives - I think we all agree - that we need to see on tourism. One is Greece, its image, its safety, the one that comes out and deserves it, because we really did go very well on the issue of the horn pandemic. We therefore need to take advantage of this in the good sense. But there are two other elements at this point, which strengthen Greece's image. One is the protocols, which I read when we announced them. They are important and include one sector. Which sector? That workers and businesses should be well-trained, organised, able to react to possible disease issues and also to help prevent them. This is a very important element. There is another element, but - three were the elements - which is missing. What's that? From the protocols from Europe, which do not exist, of course, from countries outside the European Union. What are we doing? Our view is that, at least - as you say, there are different regions and islands in Greece which can deal with such cases - there must also be at the entrance gates of the country for tourists coming and on the road, such as the Balkans, where we, in Northern Greece, will be the majority of tourist visits. The second point, therefore, which we must say is that there is a need for aid to tourism for workers. But when you announce measures that support work, which give subsidies to reduced hours of work and round hours, they do not help. This does not strengthen workers. The third is business. You left it to the banks to deal with it. The banks, however, set various conditions, which if you see them, the majority of companies cannot respond and therefore do not come out reinforced. As far as the bill is concerned, to be more specific, divestment tourism is true, it is a sector that can play a crucial role in strengthening the tourism product and, of course, it needs an integrated and well-organised structure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But the announcement and the way you put it in the bill that it is submarine tour, is already tightening up the framework, because diving tourism is not just tour. There's a lot of other things. They're underwater events, they're sport, they're education, they're musical or other spaces that should be exponential and many other things. So we have to look at these and we have to take advantage of them. Also, the bill contains many changes to urban and environmental legislation on forest land, rural areas, the Aegean Sea, on the beach. Approves interventions in the environment and in sensitive and protected areas without quality standards, also speaks of arbitrary ploughing on the Greek seabeds and does not require the storage of archaeological archaeological sites. Moreover, there are issues relating to WITS, which can also change the local planning and locality of the area. However, because from 4 May we tabled our plan, but also from the beginning of the debate, we say that our view as a party is that we will be positive in what it strengthens, what helps to improve the situation of the Krone tourism crisis. On this basis, therefore, we are positive in the debate and in the amendments that you have said. In other words, in principle we are also positive in the amendments. However, there are some articles we disagree with, we will vote against them and in other articles we will say 'they'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u378	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u379	Seven and a half thousand doctors and nurses had led to the availability of Mr. Mitsotakis. This is Mr. Mitsotakis and he's not forgotten. The public health system was strengthened by the government of Alexis Tsipras with nineteen and a half thousand doctors. The conclusions of yours. You said, Minister, that you do not legislate on the environment. But you are bringing in a series of naughty, irresponsible, backward provisions on the environment, on spatial planning, and there are not even the relevant ministers here to defend them. So you said that you did not legislate about it, you said that you do not care about it, when all Europeans talk about the green deal. You said, Minister, on 5 September that now, March - April, we would have the spatial planning for tourism ready. Where is he? Even as a reference there is no reference to the text you have brought. We pointed it out to you. As much as you're trying to muddle against SYRIZA, it's obvious that we are in favour of tourist activity. Arrival and investment records in previous years proved this. Obviously, you cannot have us as shareholders or agree to the way you go to get the building factor from the forest land. You mentioned - I would like you to clarify this - that you intend to transfer medical resources from destinations with fewer tourists to destinations with more tourists. Mr Santorinios told you that there are islands that currently have a doctor and a loan. Will you take this doctor? We had to come to the end of the debate to be informed, in particular, of articles and your own references to health protocols. Portugal has protocols since the beginning of March. So one question - why do I not actually go into it, we have to look at it in detail, I reserve it - is this: How will these protocols be implemented? It's obvious that all you've predicted is the certification to be done by private individuals. This is another gift. You'll do the check. You haven't answered until now when. You will see, however, from the reactions of people who are active in tourism that the cost cannot be tolerated, along with the other burdens they have. What do you intend to do? Do you intend to cover these costs? We told you to do a simplified cost-sharing ESDP. You don't even say that. You are simply giving a stimulus not to open up businesses and to overconcentrate the tourist activity on the hands of a few. All the media are talking about success in tourism and health. Evidently, the Greek media have taken enough money to actually talk about the government's success. Let me ask you, though: Since this package is so good and supports work and supports workers, why have workers throughout the country made a series of protests? The reaction of your government, Minister, was today that Mr Brutsis should not accept them, the soul of Greek tourism that in the previous years he set back for the country to come out of the crisis. The crisis is obvious that it cannot be overcome with old materials, with recipes, with which you tried to overcome previous crises with greater austerity and poverty. We need a new social agreement on healthy and productive powers. I come to the archaeological law, because you don't know what you're saying, and that's obvious. You told us there would be a million self-defenses coming. Exactly the same thing was said by the respective ministers in 2005. They never came. That expectation has been disproved. And this expectation was disproved because you know, Minister, that our country's comparative advantage is shipwrecks, visits, archaeologicals. You know that instead of the Ministry of Culture for so many years in the New Democracy and PASOK government, it has only been dealing with how to privatise them. The SYRIZA government came and stopped the contracts - privatisations that you promoted. He showed confidence in the people of the Ministry of Culture. He also gave the diving allowance. He signed new contracts. For the first time in April 2019, pilots for autoboats open the important classic alonissos shipwreck, the largest shipwreck of the fifth century. They've written about it from Russia to America. Only you haven't heard. There have been examples since 2005. How would you know? Are you a Minister of Tourism?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u380	How do we not know? Of course we do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u381	From 2005 to 2014, a joint ministerial decision has only been made for visiting ancient shipwrecks. SYRIZA made three. We have also introduced the thematic tourism you have not made a joint ministerial decision to implement one of the forms of alternative tourism. It's obvious that the business you want to do the favor won't go to the small destinations. This is a job of the Ministry of Culture. Because you rushed to tell us about the unconstitutionality, I will repeat: You don't know what's going on with you. I will give you a typical example that your lawyers can investigate: the decision number 2103/2019 of the Council of State and the decision number 2102/2019 of the Council of State. They concern a different case, building permits around the Acropolis for building high buildings. They have fallen precisely because of their opposition to these provisions - which we are talking about four days now - of the archaeological law and of the Constitution. You're ignoring it. A list of visiting archaeological sites will be submitted in the Minutes. I will close with your news today, because you may not have enough liquidity to give businesses, you may not have to give even half a measure for tourism, you may be mocking with crumbs for social tourism packages - and I am glad that we agree with colleagues from the Change Movement that we need a brave domestic tourism programme - but you have taken it off today in "HUMANY" hundred and twenty-two thousand for MARKETING GREECE. That is your decision. In fact, MARKETING GREECE draws up a press release, which reads: ‘In order to maintain transparency in the implementation and progress of the project, MARKETING GREECE informs that the project provider has come out of an open tender’. MARKETING GREECE arranges for an open competition. You guys haven't taken care of it. Make a direct assignment to a single private company of the country's project to view the EOT. Because, I imagine, you will not have seen this either, Minister - and I am closing with it - I mention the decision of the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts on 29 April, page 33, so that you do not get tired. ‘Apart from the apparent limitation by law of the discretion of the contracting authority to choose, in the light of the appropriate award procedure, its counterparty, the provision appears to be that to the extent that it relates to contracts above the limits it raises significant issues of compatibility with Union law, and for contracts below the limits it does not comply with the fundamental and general principles of the Treaty of Lisbon, in particular the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, as well as the resulting obligation of transparency’. You're abolishing free competition. Minister, we would expect a visionary diving bill from you, something to make us believe that what is being demolished today, because of the coronary, will be able to get ahead of time or the long time, that we will be able to have healthy businesses, strong tourist units, people standing up and supporting new tourist standards. What are you doing, Minister? You're not bringing anything. You bring your old habits, the free space to private individuals, fragmented provisions and a diving tourism that you know will not work. You call SYRIZA that he doesn't want the tourists. Finally, it's your government's failure. It's not your fault. At the end of the day, Minister, tourism - you said it - is a national matter. So look at him, even now as such. Stop behaving immaturely. We're not at a election campaign last summer to throw away the same mud. You must draw up a plan to save Greek businesses and workers, and I fear that it is already too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mrs. Notopoulou. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. It is obvious that it is about diving SYRIZA in the pool of political confusion. Mrs Notopoulou, in all honesty, I would like to point out that we are responsible for what you say and not for what you understand or want to understand. We have four days now, and we've been explaining a bill and criticising an arrogance that is related to tourism. You say to us: 'Where are the health protocols?' And, here, tonight, before the bill was passed, the health protocols come and are detailed and implemented and we all believe that they will prove effective. Why do we believe that? Do we believe it by politeness for the government and for the government's work? No, Mrs. Notopoulou. We believe that because protocols are a tool for dealing with pandemic in conditions of open economy. As in the first part, therefore, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has done better than all the European countries to face the pandemic, you can be sure that it will now be able to do so with the opening of the economy. But I am talking about SYRIZA's political confusion, because, on the one hand, you say that business will be destroyed, and on the other hand, you ask why we are in a hurry to open hotels and airports. Isn't your position completely contradictory? I have heard former Minister for Rural Development here saying: 'Why are you renting 20 euro diving parks and 150 euro fish farms?' Because, Mrs Notopoulou, fish farms are guaranteed production. Diving parks secure the divers? So if we can't reach agreement on the obvious, where can we come to an understanding? I have no intention of opposing opposition. It is the government's responsibility to deal with the pandemic so far and to deal with it during the relaunch of the economy - in difficult circumstances, it is a fact - and what will happen during this opening. It is our responsibility and we take it fully. Do you know why we take her fully? Because we don't have invisible enemies. We're not chasing windmills. We have a Prime Minister and Ministers who have the capacity to draw up a strategic plan to tackle a multidimensional crisis and have done so in their brief term of office on several occasions. I don't have to report facts. They have a capacity, however, not only to draw up the plan, but also to implement it, because it does not matter to design on paper. It's important to produce results. Politics is judged on the result and the results so far do not give you the right to be so strict with us, nor do you say that you brought tourism to Greece. Tourism has had an upward trend since the crisis. We started in 2013 with 14m euros, in 2014 we went to 17m euros, in 2015 we went to 20m euros and so on. This year - you know it yourself, as Head of Tourism - if we didn't have the pandemic, we'd still have a raise. You're saying we had a record of investments. Why didn't this record of investment in the country's growth rate? Do you forget that in all four years when you were government, you did not even reach 50% of the development goals, not that the international organisations or the European Union were appreciating, but that you wrote in the annual budgets? You have never succeeded in achieving the development goal for a year or so. So where does the investment record come from? I could say again a lot, but today I was optimistic about a study of the University of Ljubljana that ranks Greece in the sixth place in terms of coronary contagiousness index and appreciates this University that for Greece the pandemic ends on June 6th. If that happens - and I adopt it and I say it in the House because the experts say so - a university institution says so - then we will acquire and gain more time in dealing with the pandemic and the tourist streams, in operating the hotels and in opening up the airports and in shipping protocols that will definitely reach 100%. You asked us in the committees: why 50% of the protocol on ships and 100% on planes? As if they were flying planes when you asked us or had to fill the ships. That's out of place and time! And you say to the Minister: 'You do not know what happens to you, Minister.' I could say a lot, but I am finishing, Mr President, by addressing you, when you said that tourism in the years of the crisis brought EUR 150 billion to the national economy and it is a great deal of money, because the payments to Greek tourism amount to EUR 19 to 20 billion a year. The Greek rapporteur said that it is indeed a service and it is not an industry as we call it and is right. We must finally, Minister, seriously discuss how this sector of service, primarily, which offers so much to the Greek economy, will actually become the heavy industry. How will this EOT mark attesting this national product of ours called Greek tourism be given? Under what conditions? Because today we give the same EOT brand to a hotel that feeds its customers with Greek organic traditional products and the same brand to a hotel that introduces everything, creating much smaller prints in the Greek economy. We need to look at issues that will link Greek tourism to the Greek production base, so that both tourism and the production base can be expanded. I am sure that you and your colleagues and the entire Government of Mr Mitsotakis have such guidelines, because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, you know how to draw up strategic planning and especially you know how to implement it. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote on this bill, because, as the rapporteur of the JRC said, my dear friend, Mr Papapas, when he went to the Stepma that there is left-wing and right-wing tourism, there may be left-wing and right-wing approaches, but the national product called Greek tourism belongs to all of us and belongs to the next generations and we must preserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u384	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u385	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, I hope - and I hope - that is the last speech, because it is the fourth day today and I think it is - that Mr Frangidis said so - exhausting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u386	Let's go to the fifth day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u387	You want to get over the budget, too. I see you, Mr. President. You have an ambition that seems. Alarga, give the time, let's catch more day. This is your secret plan. Now it's unveiled! So I will start this speech again by welcoming and thanking everyone for your remarks that helped to shape a better bill than the one that entered this House. I obviously don't have the time to answer everything. I should like to make one point from every speaker. Mr Arseni, we are legislating about RITs first of all for the two existing ones, in Atalanti and in Messinia, but also for all those that will exist. That's why we legislate. When the legislator built the framework of WITS, he did not legislate for anyone. He legislated for all those who might make their applications and would get permissions to create such a CIT. We have experience from the ESRB and the ESRB. Improved the authorisation procedure. It got faster and better. We take this experience and bring it to the license frame that was built before. There's nothing more, nothing less. I leave these shadows and return them to you. Mr Villardo, now I don't know what to say about liberalism. In the same breath you accused us that if we were true liberals, we would not legislate with the money of others and then you said: "You are a neoliberal government and the most neoliberal of all time". We're neither one nor the other. We are the government that respects the Greek people, his health, his life, his efforts, and here we will be to help him develop his skills, produce wealth and make him and his children stay in his country. This is our government. Mr Synonymakis, obviously, the focus is the big chapter. In Ilioupoli or Glyfada, the parallel squares, the pizzeria and the souvlazidic are big capital. It's not like that. No one says there will be no nuisances from using the most space. Nobody said that. If we wanted the normal procedure to be that way, we would legislate and say 'banks outside'. It's not like that, though. At the moment we have two very strong emergency factors. Firstly, these people, in their vast majority, are not capital. I don't know how you count the capital. You told us about the people who are diving, who are simply freelance professionals, and you described them as capital.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u388	Did I tell you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u389	In your prototype you said 'capital'. One is that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u390	Did I say in the denture that the focus is capital?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u391	You told the committee that divers are capital. I know what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u392	I said he employs 80%...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u393	So I'm telling you, these people are having a hard time. They have to reduce tables by increasing distances. Where there is a possibility of expanding a little, this will give these people temporary help. It's right, it's necessary, it had to be done, and I think our government is doing it right. Mr Francisco, you have described the difficulty of implementing a relaunching plan. As for the protocols, I explained in my speech that it is not just protocols. It is a series of sanitary things, the procedures, which must take place, so that there can be that stock of confidence that will enable tourism to be relaunched. Unfortunately, this is twice and three times more difficult when Europe in many cases was absent. It was absent at the "eba" of this crisis and found it very difficult to coordinate during the exit of this crisis. So we do too much to combine all the axes. I say to them again: The sanitary piece with the operational footage, with the cooperation with doctors, checks and whatever it takes. The economic part with the support of the unemployed, workers, businesses, liquidity and competitiveness. Diplomatics with constant discussions. With at least seven or eight countries I have spoken in the last few days, to look at the procedures and how travels will be allowed and what issues are emerging. Of course, the importance of the bilateral agreements, given the announcements and the plan we are doing, is shorter at this time, because we have announced how we will operate, we are opening our borders according to our own criteria, those of the epidemiologists, and we see that an internal pressure is being created in these countries to open up their borders respectively and for diplomatic reasons, but above all, because people want to come to our country because they feel it is a safe country. So we'll be here and we'll talk about your plan and other plans. We will take ideas and cost, as we have done all this time, very good cooperation with the other ministries, so that we can overcome the difficulties and prepare this plan. Now, of course, we are starting a new road to integration, to implement the various actions, both in social tourism and in all other fields, so that we can be ready to open up. I shall now refer to what Mrs Notopoulou said. I oppose the designations. It's too late to deserve a confrontation. I don't think there's a reason. I, the only thing I can tell you about is your need to reduce the country's effort when you say that tourism is a national case and you are trying to reduce the country's effort. I'm not reducing your own effort. I believe it. Tourism is one of the areas that, if you want, you have not done well. You did not charge us 100 billion euros, as you charged us to the economy in 2015! Hey, to tourism something's happened! I don't focus there on my confrontation. But do I focus on the fact that you're talking about whether Portugal has protocols a couple of months ago? Do you realize in March what protocols Portugal made? There's no way. Turkey has announced that it has drawn protocols since June 1st. He just announced it three weeks ago to say he's making it to make a doro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u394	Why don't you say ours, Minister? Do we have protocols? Who is she?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u395	Of course! It's in the Minutes. Please! At least the criticism until a moment ago also made some sense. Now that it's in the Minutes of the House, no! We have protocols that are official and agreed. We're tired of getting out and having the right balance. It's real. We must at least agree on that. With regard to whether you want tourists or not, when we hear from your MPs saying that we are succumbing to capital and leaving all positions on planes, is that not against coming tourists? I didn't say that. This is where the Greek people have been told. I shall end only in a few words, because MARKETING GREECE will have time to talk about it. The legislative act will also come and we will discuss it in detail. MARKETING GREECE is not a private company in the sense that you want to go through, creating impressions. MARKETING GREECE belongs to a collective operator of tourism. MARKETING GREECE does not compete with individuals. MARKETING GREECE is the private sector's EOT. Spain’s ‘MARKETING GREECE’ is supported by the State. The state gives it direct money. In France, the EOT is in partnership with the private sector. Instead of having MARKETING GREECE, the private sector is a shareholder directly to the EOT.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u396	Is that good?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u397	Good or bad, that's it. So I tell you that this and even more advanced models of partnership, of course they are fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u398	So, you photograph the private sector as an ambassador?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u399	I don't photograph anything. I tell you there are even more advanced models. I, therefore, said at the very first moment that this opportunity for the country to make use of its good name at the whole time of the crisis, which has stopped maliciousness, can finally be a region, a public and private sector, to cooperate for the first time, in order to get the country out with a force of one image, I will not leave it unexploited. They will be forced - not in the sense of imposition, but because it is self-evident - and the private sector and the public sector and the regions and all the forces of the country will now be pushed, to regenerate from zero to tourism. We have never said that we would have no financial impact on the fact that economic activity has stopped to save the most vulnerable in society. We did it for them. Now we need to unite all the forces to get out of the way. All of them! If the political system cannot unite its powers, the private sector will join forces with the public sector. That is what we are determined to do in the interest of all the people who are finally looking for work. That's why we do what we do. If you don't see results in this, see the "Greece from home", which all over the world tells us how successful it is. All over the world! That's all I wanted to say. I should like to end, Mr President, with a legislative improvement. We have a simple numbering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u400	After you describe it, Minister, to testify to it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u401	In the draft law, in Article 69, the number ‘62’ is replaced by ‘61’. It's a simple renumeration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u402	Let me have a little personal mention, because it's late and it's our first bill. We've never been with Mano Console before. So I want to thank Mano Konsola first of all - it will not be a habit, I will not do it again, but I think our first bill is worthwhile - but also all my partners, who are here and who have worked to achieve this bill, namely Helen Nikolaos, Marina Bakari, Paul Kouri, Hara Nikolaos and Tasos Thomas, but those who were in the ministry or elsewhere and are not here at this time. I want to thank them from the heart for running these days, especially for all these proposals, which I just give a piece of paper to get in. But they run to make them legally enjoyable and to be perfect. Thank them from the heart.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u403	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Tourism is closed: 'Specific forms of tourism and provisions on tourism development and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, sixty-five articles, two amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to "rol" - scroll down - the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u404	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u405	Ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u406	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Specific forms of tourism and provisions on tourism development and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority on the principle of Articles and all and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u407	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u408	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-22-S1-commons.u409	With the agreement of the House at 00.03 the sitting for Monday, 25 May 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
