ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and the illegal importation, export, movement or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia for cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’. 3. "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan". The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who have an objection to their ratification may be given the floor. I therefore propose that the debate on the first two agreements should be singled out and that those who object for five minutes should proceed to their vote and then that the agreement with Japan be debated and voted on in the same way. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u3	Here, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. With your tolerance, because the Committee on Forestry has worked under the difficult conditions of the pandemic and with teleconferencing, I would like to propose - although of course the other parties agree - that any of the rapporteurs, even the parties that we have agreed, would want for two or three minutes to be placed, if there is no disagreement, to give them the opportunity, since it has been - I repeat - under special circumstances the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u5	In accordance with the 108 provision, it is only for those who object.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u6	I know that, and that is why I put it in procedural terms, although the other parties have no disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u8	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, we too have a positive view of this. We agree with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou to place us for a five-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u10	Good. Okay, exceptionally, we'll do it for two minutes. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, thank you. Of course, many bills have been drafted by Parliament and the relevant committees and Parliament during the pandemic. However, we would have no objection to these sanctions for the parties to be placed for a few minutes, because you know that we have the great bill of education and if the debate escapes, we have issues that are operational now in the plenary session as well as in the roll-call vote. In other words, we have no room for three hours, we have much less room. In any case, we would have no objection to a short position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u12	So one of the rivals is Mrs. Konnaka, and then from the Greek Solution Mrs. Sophia Asmakopoulou is from the KKE. We start with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mrs. Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u13	I will be placed on both agreements with Peru and Armenia. It is true that the debate in the committee has dealt more generally with issues which are not essentially related to their agreements to be voted on, but rather to issues relating to culture, such as measures to protect workers in the field of culture. I do not want to misuse time and talk about what has been dominated - so to speak - in the whole debate. In addition, the JRC has tabled a proposal for a law on the effective support of cultural workers, and we hope that it will not remain unanswered, so that we can place ourselves fully and by the way not to do so in unrelated bills. We also told the committee that there was no substantial disagreement. However, we have asked the Minister some questions and we would like to hear whether there are any answers to them. In particular, for the programme of cooperation in culture with Armenia, which relates essentially to cooperation between the two States in the field of culture, there is, in essence, no objection to the signing of bilateral conventions for cooperation between States. The question is whether, in the final result of such programmes, the introductory declarations on the approach of the two peoples and the consolidation of their friendship are reflected and whether it will substantially contribute to the protection and promotion of cultural heritage or ultimately through them, there are simply some businesses operating in these sectors. It has already been noted that it took four years to come to the Greek Parliament for ratification, and a few months before the end of the agreement, since the agreement was signed in March 2016 and ends this year on 31 December 2020. We ask the Minister again: is there any intention of extending the agreement? Is there any preparation for this? We have also asked you a number of questions in committee because, as the convention says, ratification is not a necessary condition for it to enter into force. It may, therefore, have already given some results to date. Although, in principle, we are positive about ratification of the agreement, because the wording of the convention is quite general, we would like to know what the conclusions are from the initial implementation of the programme and how the programme has been implemented up to now. What conclusions are there from its implementation? What are the elements showing that the programme was beneficial to both peoples? Is there a correspondingly expressed opinion of the Republic of Armenia on the progress of cooperation between the two States? Of course we would like to know, as you have said, whether there is an intention on both sides to renew the programme or to replace it with another. Otherwise, we do not disagree with the agreement. In relation to the ratification of the agreement between Greece and Peru on the prevention of a number of criminal acts directed against the property of the cultural heritage of both countries, in principle such bilateral agreements to some extent can contribute to limiting the illicit trafficking of fragments of real estate monuments, movable monuments of cultural heritage or works of art, and in this respect we are not opposed to this agreement either. However, we consider it necessary to point out that such cooperation and agreements cannot, of course, eliminate the problem of crime that has occurred in this area of culture too, because such crimes are not created anywhere. It is the result of the merchandise that prevails in all spheres of social activity, which really spreads like a plague and converts any value of use and any value of good value for profit. It's the art stock exchange and the big auctions that manipulate it. It is capitalism, in the end, that ends up grappling what touches and will continue to hurt the results of culture and art, as well as so many other social goods, until the people decide to take their fates and get rid of the system what does not let them breathe. This is not the case, of course, in this debate. However, we have no objection to this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Sophia Asmakopoulou. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you will speak with one voice about both agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u15	Yes, Mr President, for both agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u16	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and illegal import and export, trafficking or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin is currently being discussed and ratified today. Undoubtedly, the protection of culture is of major importance and must be a direct priority for our country. The area of cultural, historical and aesthetic values is fundamental. You are, however, introducing the agreement before us five years later, following the signatures put forward by the ambassadors of the two Republics on 15 December 2015 and we cannot highlight the enormous delay. Illegal excavations have disastrous consequences, while the trade in antiquities is augmenting the gathering, which is, unfortunately, well known. Archaecapilia is inexhaustible and our country is an inexhaustible treasure of antiquities that rightly seek our protection. The first Article of the Agreement provides for mutual assistance by the Contracting Parties in order to identify and recover the cultural goods stolen, excavated or unlawfully exported from the territory of each of the Parties. What will be the necessary documents identifying the cultural heritage of the applicant party? The question also arises as to the costs likely to arise from this mutual exchange of information, in particular the exchange and training of the personnel of the parties in the field of prevention, illicit traffic, performance and return of cultural goods in the countries of origin. We have some questions to ask about the amendment of the agreement. Neither the reasons nor the conditions of the amendment are mentioned, and we would like clarification on them. The same applies to the resolution of disputes through consultation, but also to its complaint. The way the agreement is solved seems totally relaxed. Any dispute which is not resolved by diplomatic means should be resolved by international courts with the appropriate consequences. In any case, we request the prohibition of imports of Greek antiquities in Peru and in any other country for sale to museums or individuals or their auctioning. Regarding the ratification of the programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia and cooperation in the field of culture, we are asking for more details of direct cooperation, which is currently mentioned. The programme shall refer to professional institutions. What will these institutions be? The same question is about direct cooperation in the theatre sector between Armenian and Greek institutions and organisations. What will these institutions and organisations be, and what do you mean when you talk about support? You mean economic? Is this possible a private body, a NGOs or a public body? Regarding the costs of concerts and artistic performances, we wonder who they will be burdening. There is no clarification. The programme also points out that the parties will try to organise concerts and artistic performances in the other country. We cannot understand why so uncertain. We call for the question of the institutions and bodies referred to in Article 6 to be cleared up, as well as the legislation on which they are not notified. With regard to the cooperation of the parties to prevent the illegal import, export and transfer of cultural property constituting their cultural heritage, how will various operators of one country be involved in the management of museums, as well as in the maintenance of the monuments of the other? Cooperation for the scourge of archaocapilia is legitimate. Article 10 must take the necessary measures to avoid distortion of the cultural heritage of each Contracting State. As far as the activities are concerned, according to the financial possibilities of the parties, we believe that there should be more analysis, given that it is totally vague. We cannot ask ourselves about the delay in the ratification of the programme, which was signed on 15 March 2016. The relations between Greece and Armenia have long history and are linked to the coexistence of Greeks and Armenia during the Byzantine Period and during the Ottoman Empire. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Due to the strong cultural, religious and political links between the two countries, Armenia and Greece maintain excellent diplomatic relations. Both peoples have faced the atrocity of the Turks, as have the Hellenism of the Pontou. We in the Greek Solution believe that our cultural heritage reflects the multiple dimensions of our identity. Relations between the two countries must be strengthened in every possible way, as we have two nations with many similar features. It ensures the bridging of the past and the future and is in general the supreme development tool for the country's uplift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Is there another colleague who wants to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u19	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating in plenary the ratification of three important international agreements in our country, which concern purely culture and which, in accordance with Article 28 of the Constitution, have a super-legislative effect. The first bill ratifys the agreement between Greece and Peru, and this is to prevent theft and illegal excavation, as well as illegal import, export, movement and transfer of cultural goods and their performance in their country of origin. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an agreement to be added to other equivalents signed by our country in order to address the problem of theft and the illegal trafficking of our archaeological and cultural treasures. Indeed, it should be noted that Peru is also a country with a long history and of course a great cultural heritage and is also facing illegal movements. Of course, this is an agreement that should have been ratified since 2015, when it was signed. There is, of course, no sense in this delay, which of course does not benefit our country. In detail, we have the cooperation and mutual assistance of the two countries in identifying the cultural goods stolen, excavated illegally and exported abroad and of course illegally moved. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is ensured that if a cultural asset becomes the subject of illegal export and trafficking, this will also be confiscated by the country in which it belongs by diplomatic means to request recovery of its return. And I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill on ratification of the cooperation programme between our country and Armenia on civilisation cooperation for the years 2016-20. This agreement is a follow-up to the agreement between the two countries on cooperation in the fields of education, culture, science and it was signed in Erevan on 16-12-1994 by the then PASOK government and Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou, a leader who built friendships and agreements that are useful to us today. The cooperation programme, ladies and gentlemen, aims to strengthen the traditional good relations between the two countries and to disseminate knowledge about their history and culture. He even takes over many different cultural areas, theatre, music, cinema, libraries. We are concerned, however, that its validity is for the period 2016-2020 and has come to be ratified only a few months before it expires. The responsibilities of the previous government are many that did not introduce the contract signed since 15 March 2016, a slowdown without any benefit to our cultural heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the third bill on ratification of our country's agreement with Japan to strengthen cooperation between the two countries in the light of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo, which, due to the Coronus pandemic, were transferred to 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Comrade, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Because Mr. Augorakis is here, you will talk about the agreement with Japan. Now the debate is just for Peru and Armenia. Then you'll talk about Japan. If you want, complete the first two deals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u23	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been placed in detail in the committee on these international conventions. They are bilateral conventions that strengthen our country's international relations and contribute to cooperation in the fields of sport and culture, the protection of cultural goods and our cultural heritage. We are voting for these two sanctions because culture is exaggerated, it requires national unity, national consensus. Besides, remember that tourism is our heavy industry, and our culture is our attractive proposal to the ends of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Gregoriadis, will you take the floor on Mera25?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u25	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u26	We are now going to SYRIZA's rapporteurs. Mrs Vetta will speak of the first Peru Convention and Mrs Bagena will speak of the convention with Armenia. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. The bilateral agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru, a country with great heritage, is part of the constant aim of our country to conclude, as far as possible, a bilateral agreement with other countries, such as the UNESCO international conventions in this area, which our country has adopted and ratified and which are laws of the state. We've been discussing this in detail in committee. We are clearly positive about the ratification of this agreement signed by the previous SYRIZA government at the celebration of the fifty years since the establishment of the Greek-Pura diplomatic relations in the context of the upgrading of our bilateral relations, which were subsequently enriched by a number of initiatives. For example, I mention the Forum of Ancient Civilizations. However, I would like to return to some of the points raised by the Minister's position in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, as this was the case at the end of the sitting and I was not given the opportunity to speak. You raised a matter of delay in ratifying the agreement, Minister, and you should know as former Secretary-General of the Ministry that the two countries have started talks on this agreement already since 2010. Then what should we ask? Why didn't you even sign the agreement by January 2015? These issues, as you know very well, are addressed and influenced by a variety of policy factors or non-progressions. It is also not a question of a single ministry, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Legal Service, the Embassies of the two countries, etc. is involved. and are generally time-consuming procedures, which follow the diplomatic path and are not blackmailed. You also referred to other issues, such as the stopping of folders to be updated from 2014 onwards. I would also like to remind you that for your days in October 2014 there has been a deterioration in part of the archaocaust policy Directorate for Documentation and Protection of Cultural Goods of the Ministry of Culture, leaving it under-represented and with many problems. This downgrade has attracted today's and sensitive assumptions of your authority. With regard to the country-by-country maintenance of antiquities at Venizelos station, which is also dictated by the Constitution, the archaeological law, but also the international conventions that our country has ratified by law, it is not only the Opposition for lack of sensitivity, Minister. It is the national and international scientific and academic community that has been abdicated to you. What can we say here first? Should we mention the Pan-European Agency for the Cultural Heritage of Europa Nostra, the five Quaestors of the IMP, the citizens' movements, the International Association of Byzantine Studies, the members of the French Committee on Byzantine Studies and so many others? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And your claim that for the solution of the coexistence that they have already implemented since 2017, it was alleged that the studies were unwritten, as you said - it has been disproved - I think - by the same scholars who presented them publicly last February at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Also for the Phaliro Binders continue the same policy on your part and you are making normal the secondment of antiquities wherever they are, however important and unique they may be. The implementation of the work and the programme for the protection of the Tyres found unanimously approved by the CST in June 2019, you closed them in the drawer and did not deal with the finding that otherwise risks, as you said, and you only dealt with January 2020, i.e. six to seven months after you became Minister. Like the metro of Thessaloniki, the theme of the Binders returns with new studies, new prerequisites and much time due to your manipulations. For the criticism I made, Minister, for your political choices concerning the first monument of the country, the Acropolis and the surroundings, downgrading and underestimating his historic symbolisms, you have told me again that it was the previous government's fault. Minister, do you realise that this summer you may not be able to visit the Holy Rock, that again you have fallen out in every timeframe you have set yourself, while just the day before yesterday, June 4, 2020, you have recommended supervising the project and building a new Acropolis elevator? Eventually there was work before without supervisors, or is the project starting now, while it would end in mid-June?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u28	Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u29	I shall conclude, Mr President. As for the "All Greece One Culture" programme, no direct assignments were made by the Ministry of Culture. Do you deny that direct assignments were made by supervised bodies, that you left areas like Western Macedonia completely out? Do you deny that the two hundred sixty events that you announced concern only fifty five productions and that you announced entry in return for consideration, and every year there were almost three-fold events by the Ministry only in August throughout the territory free of charge for the public? Thank you very much for the misuse of time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u31	Here you are, Mr Bukokkore, speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, in order to send out a message of cooperation between parliamentary groups and to emit a picture of seriousness, I will say that the procedure is in accordance with Rule 108, as you have rightly explained. They have the right to take the floor for those who disagreed or who have expressed reservations on a proposal from Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, which we accepted on the grounds that the bill, this sanction was processed by the competent committees in a pandemic regime and had not been given the opportunity to analyse the parties' positions as it might have been. We also agreed that the rapporteurs should take the floor from two minutes. Now, if the rapporteur goes to Stepma and opens up all the issues of the Ministry of Culture and one of the rapporteurs will then open up other issues of the current policy of topicality, on the one hand, and, on the other, we are in breach of the gentlemen's agreement and, on the other, we will not have time, Mr President. I would ask that the agreement be respected. At least I consented on this condition. I mean New Democracy, not me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u33	You are right, Mr Buquoir, as regards what has been said, but I would remind you that under Rule 108(4), if there are any objections to the time set, the plenary shall decide. So it is a plenary, and it is not the Conference of Presidents. So we had two agreements here and could be five minutes for each. There was a shortcut to be discussed at one time for five minutes. In view of the fact that there were two agreements and we could, because it is also provided for in the Rules of Procedure, give this extension, okay. It should normally be five minutes each. We accepted that the debate should be made uniform and that the world has not been lost for two minutes, which instead of speaking for two minutes, spoke for three minutes. There has been a derogation from the agreement, from the proposal, which was made by Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and accepted. In fact, you are right that we should have finished in two minutes. The world hasn't been lost for two minutes now, but we've lost these minutes with the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u34	But they open up issues, Mr President. I'm just pointing it out. It's not a matter of time, I guess I didn't make myself clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u35	All right, all right, you know that now. It wasn't kept. I am sure Mrs Vaguea will now observe it and so there will be a set-aside in some way. Besides, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and you are short, so you may not speak or speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u36	Today we are discussing an international convention on the ratification of a programme on cultural cooperation between our country and the Republic of Armenia. This is, in fact, a programme which will favour the mutual and in-depth acquaintance of the culture, history and contemporary artistic creation of the two countries, an excellent opportunity to bring together the two peoples, who have already shared a great deal and, above all, the fresh historical memory of the uprooting and refugee that they experienced during the Asia Minor disaster. Here I would like to say that personally, having interpreted the shocking speech of Angela Papazoglou, a Mikratissa, I feel a special connection, as if I were a part of Pontus and Asia. Because the uprooting, whatever people they experience, is as bitter as ever. There are many Greeks of Armenia and many Armenians in Greece. Symbolism of the two peoples has gone back for many years now. Both are ancient peoples, Armenians and Greeks have coexisted for centuries. The oldest Greek reference to Armenia is Milesios in 525 BC. Indeed, there is the case of glossaries that Armenian and Greek share a common ancestor of indo European origin. Due to the strong cultural, religious and political links between the two countries, Armenia and Greece maintain excellent diplomatic relations. This programme for cooperation in the field of culture comes to enable the two countries to make maximum use of these links, encouraging acquaintance not only with each other's cultural heritage, but also with its modern production, in all areas of culture, setting the foundations for new partnerships and new starting points. In the modern geopolitical instability of our wider region, with unfortunately open to our neighbour Turkey, which reminds us every day of its actions, it is very important to develop relations between education and culture with a traditional ally, which has suffered similar problems with Greece from the Turkish nation and which is bordering Turkey on the east. So our cultural relationships can be a small flame of reminder of our common history. That is why we are voting in favour, as we have said in committee. You will allow me a little mention of the speech made by the Minister in the committee on the omissions that SYRIZA had in the Ministry of Culture. I would like to remind you, Minister, that you of course know, that the online ticket to the archaeological sites was introduced on the basis of SYRIZA's governance, as well as the definitive withdrawal of the authorisation of GDEI, the reintroduction of the single price of the book, the reintroduction of grants to the free theatre and it is your honour that you decided to give 1 additional million to these grants on the occasion of the pandemic, as it was an institution that had ceased to operate for many years and for the first time returned to the government of SYRIZA, and indeed in the midst of memorial and in a close financial framework since then Minister of Culture, Lydia Coniordos, in 2017. Also on SYRIZA the institution of the tickets for the theatres from the Rural Housing also came back. As for the industrial relations jungle, which prevails in the field of culture and not just, you said that we were closing our eyes. We weren't closing our eyes. You know very well who brought this working jungle into the relations between the workers and who dismantled the collective agreements, and the actors. Not SYRIZA, though. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u37	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dunia Panayota, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to be as brief as I can and speak unitedly about both sanctions. Madam Minister, our culture is our greatest legacy and our greatest asset. It makes us proud to be Greek and inspires us, as well as all other peoples, since Greek culture is a global point of reference. Our country in the field of culture and sport, as in most fields, has chosen extroversion. In other words, it has decided to cooperate with as many foreign countries as possible. The ultimate aim of this cooperation is to interact and share the particulars of local cultural and sporting experiences and to protect our great cultural heritage. We are talking today with a very long delay, unfortunately, about three bills. I will speak about both of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which contains very important provisions in this direction. In particular, we are called upon to discuss and ratify, as provided for in Article 28(1) of the Constitution, firstly, the agreement signed in Lima on 15 December 2015 between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and illegal import, export, trafficking or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and on their performance in the country of origin. Secondly, we are called upon to discuss and ratify the programme signed in Athens on 15 March 2016 on cultural cooperation for the years 2016-2020 between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia. I shall briefly refer to the content of these two texts, starting with our agreement with the Republic of Peru. The cultural heritage of each country is unique and special for each nation and as such must be adequately protected. The main objective of the agreement we are considering is to promote closer cooperation between the two countries on the protection of cultural goods. The two parties to the Agreement appear to share the same worthy code, since the preamble to the Agreement mentions the great importance that both Contracting countries attach to the rules of the UNESCO Convention of 1970, the measures to be taken to prohibit and prevent the illegal importation, export and transfer of the ownership of cultural goods, the 1972 UNESCO Convention on the Protection of our global cultural and natural heritage, the 1995 UNIDROIT Convention on stolen or illegally prominent cultural goods, as well as the Recommendation adopted at the 3rd International Conference of Experts on the Return of Cultural Goods, held in Ancient Olympia in 2013, in which both parties participated actively. The first article of the bill ratifying it contains all the content of this important agreement, which consists of eight articles and two annexes. I do not want to mourn you with all the annexes, we have already said so in our committee. The second article of the draft law refers to the entry into force of this Law by its publication in the Official Journal of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of our agreement with the Republic of Peru is too great for the integrity of our cultural goods and has a very positive sign. It forms part of our wider strategy to conclude bilateral agreements to prevent the illicit trafficking of cultural goods, and it is coming to seal our already very good cooperation with Peru in this area. Let us now move on to the second bill that ratifys the programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia for their cooperation in the field of culture between 2016-2020. This bill is again made up of two articles. The first includes the provision of the seventeen articles of this programme, each of which aims to develop cooperation between the parties in different areas of culture. Among other things, there is provision for cooperation between Greece and Armenia in the audiovisual and cinema sector, in the field of the theatre, organising concerts and artistic events, trying to organise exhibitions of ancient and contemporary art in the other country, supporting organisations and institutions linked to civil society and folklore, in the field of archaeology, museum management and conservation, protection and conservation of monuments, preventing and combating illegal import, export and transfer of cultural property, as well as supporting direct cooperation between libraries of both countries and translations of their national literature. At the same time, the economic and organisational conditions of cultural exchanges to be carried out on the basis of this programme are mentioned, the resolution of any differences between the parties through diplomatic channels, the possibility of amending this implementation programme and, of course, the duration of the programme. This will remain in force until a new programme enters into force, but in any case not later than 31 December 2020. The second article refers to the entry into force of this Law by its publication in the Official Journal of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, this programme must be voted on, since there is no doubt that it will be a positive contribution to our cultural cooperation with Armenia through understanding the characteristics of culture in both countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Does any of the Parliamentary Representatives want to be placed? Nobody. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you need to argue in particular about the importance of ratifying bilateral conventions. The agreement with the Republic of Peru and the agreement with the Republic of Armenia only have a positive effect on cultural relations between the two countries, which are already at a very high level. Let me start from Armenia and everything that has been said. Obviously, until we get to ratification, there have been exchanges and cooperation between the two states. I will give you a typical example: the exhibition organized by Armenia in the Byzantine and Christian Athens Museum. Indeed, if the coronary did not intervene, a rewarding report would be hosted in the Armenian capital. I would also like to say that the importance of cultural exchanges has already been confirmed by the presence of the former President of the Republic of Paulopoulos and his visit to the Republic of Armenia. I personally have met with the Minister of Culture three times and there is a not only positive, but an extremely good climate for continuing this cooperation. The penalty, even with the delay, had to be made. It was, if you like, a gesture of goodwill towards the Government of the Republic of Armenia. I won't be tempted to discuss delays. I will simply say that in July 2019 in the Ministry of Culture there were more than twenty unfinished cases in international conventions, respectively the question of ratifying the Agreement on the illegal theft, excavation, import, export and transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the countries of origin, ratified by the Agreement of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru. It's extremely important. Here, too, our relations are very close. Let me just say that the penalty is the easy part. The difficult ones are the years that need to be prioritised in order to make the agreements. To put things in place too. Of all the other things that have been said, I will not comment on anything. We have said it many times and we will have the opportunity to talk about it in many other cases. I shall refer to just one point. In 2018 and 2019, the Acropolis did not in fact have an elevator, as the damage was continuous and there were risks. So what the government does today should have done it at least two years ago. Also, as I listened to you talking about the accessibility of people with problems in the Acropolis Rock, I was thinking about the very great sensitivity you have. And you've got it right. But there was not the same sensitivity when your President spoke to the House about Kymbouropoulos, the MEP of the New Democracy. That's what you reminded me of. So let us say that the elevator was ordered in time and according to programming. The Italian factory that has been built is in the Como of Italy. She was closed for seventy days because of the coronary. Any delay, therefore, is due to a purely objective issue and a problem. I would like to close, Mr President, with a very great success, which is probably not known, because it has just taken a very important decision for Greece, unlike the United States first-class court and the June 2019 decision - and I quote it here because it is linked to the archaocaust and the illegal trafficking - that it did not recognize Greece's proper intervention to the Sotheby's, which for the first time as auction houses have turned to the Greek state - there is no other precedent - and they did not accept Greece's objection. An appeal was filed in August and September 2019. We asked for the support as many States as possible of the Greek position that the claim of the contested monument, a small idol of the 8th century horse, constituted a sovereign right of Greece, imposed by the Constitution and the archaeological legislation. This was accepted by the United States Court of Appeal. I mention the importance not only because it concerns our country. The enormous procedural and substantive importance of the decision, which applies to Greece, also concerns all the countries claiming monuments. It is its importance that, on the grounds of the vindication of the Greek idol by the Ministry of Culture and without any precedent of the United States Court, it took the view that differences in monuments, which are placed on the market by the prefectures of American houses or which are claimed by museums, will not be avenged by courts of the place of auction or the seat of the house or museum holding the object illegally, but will apply the relevant legal provisions which, in the case of Greece, define exclusive jurisdiction of the Greek courts. I think I don't have to say anything more. It is a very important decision. Greece has opened the way for all countries to claim the return of their cultural goods with other data, otherwise, with other arguments. I think that is something that we need to highlight. I do not think there can be any disagreement on such matters and in this way, in fact, the extroversion and real power of Greek culture is recognised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is closed: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and illegal import, export, trafficking or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the draft law and the vote will be taken separately. I would like to point out to you that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u42	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u43	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u44	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Peru on the prevention of theft, illegal excavation and illegal import, export, movement or transfer of ownership of cultural goods and their performance in the country of origin’ was unanimously accepted, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u46	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Structuring the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’ is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the draft law and the vote will be taken separately. I would like to point out to you that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u47	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u48	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u49	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Creating the Programme between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in the field of culture for the years 2016-2020’ was unanimously accepted in a single debate on the principle, articles and total and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u51	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan". Mr. Undersecretary is here. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. From a position of principle, the Communist Party of Greece sees positive agreements contributing to the development of friendship and cooperation between the peoples and countries. The main criterion is whether these create conditions that really help to develop friendship and cooperation, or whether they are agreements that serve great economic interests and political objectives that are directed against the interests of the people, or even if they are integrated or exploited in the design of more general imperialist pursuits. In this respect, we are also considering the memorandum of cooperation between our country and Japan. Aside from this particular memorandum of cooperation we are debating today, for example, the strengthening of cooperation in the light of Tokyo's Olympic and Paralympics, the role of the so-called Olympic Truce, the strengthening of transparency and democratisation of sport, the exchange of know-how for investment in sports facilities, civil protection and other issues, we are also voting on'represents' in this respect. More specifically. Firstly, for many years the Olympic Games have lost their meaning and role, which, after being re-established as a process of friendship among the peoples of noble peoples, of competition and equal cooperation. They have nothing to do with the modern needs of the people and youth. The Olympic Games, in general the major sports events, are an expression of commercial sport in the current development phase of the capitalist system, the needs of monopolies to expand their activities in every sphere of intellectual production and social life. Almost all sports, big teams and most talented athletes are controlled by international monopolies that dominate the international market and are directly related to commercialised sport. The whole structure of the Olympic Games, the International Olympic Committee itself, is a multifaceted mechanism of economic interests and manipulation of peoples, youths, with the trap of sporting interest. From this point of view, there is an attempt to enjoy the role of the Olympic Games at the expense of sport and the well-intentioned speech. They praise, for example, the so-called Olympic Truce and set the goal of establishing itself in the collective consciousness of mankind. The truth is, in the end, that truce is an idea which is being ridiculed by those who cause wars and have great economic interests, such as sponsors. In practice, the content of Olympic Truce has been altered. It is valued as a means of deceiving the people, since in practice it silences the real causes of the imperialist wars, hides the imperialist contradictions and competition for energy resources, the roads, the sharing of markets as the only cause for the eruption of the imperialist wars, when the parties in the city, the New Democracy, the SYRIZA and the other parties, are involved in these plans and are taking the lead as signifiers of NATO and the European Union's plans in the region. Therefore, the Olympic Games, not only do they abolish wars for fifteen - twenty days, but all those leading the Olympic Games are taking part in the political decisions of war and military operations. It's in the same trick, that's what we'd say. Secondly, with regard to the transfer of know-how for investment in sports facilities, the Government does indeed have a lot of ideas to offer and, in practice, when it fully adapts the maintenance and operation of our own sports facilities to business plans for the needs of the capital, which enables sports anonymous companies to proceed with interventions which serve their own function, by establishing their return function for the people, who on a path may lose the right to access through the multiannual concessions to these sports companies, while by systematically subscribing and subscribing the facilities whether they are either downgraded or delivered to business. The examples are, of course, too much. I don't have time to talk. Indeed, this process - and also because of the sub-funding and the need of the urban state itself to get rid of their responsibility - is being transferred to the municipalities and regions, and indeed without personnel and without resources. All this, in our view, serves more general directions of dismissal of the central state than the obligation to maintain and build sporting infrastructure, to load them on the ground now on the backs of the people through the municipalities and regions, and to deliver them directly to entrepreneurs and private initiative. Thirdly, in relation to increasing transparency and the democratisation of sport, our country must be an example to avoid. We don't have to go too far. What happens over time in the football field confirms and demonstrates once again the sepsis of the overlap in professional sport. What is now evident is that businesspeople's football is playing in the background, it is dominating profit and competitiveness, socially good sport now has become a commodity. Complexity and sequence with tolerance of all governments are dominant components and governments are stubbornly refusing to adopt even self-evident proposals of the JRC to leave the Ministry of Culture and Sports, and to go to the Ministry of Development as sports companies. In other words, there must be control over their finances, of their property, of their viability, of the existence of a special licensing regime and of the withdrawal of all Greek teams from the system, of course, but also of the Committee on Professional Sport, which is financed by the Greek people's money, which attempts to lay down rules in which business will be developed in the field of commercial sport. Fourthly, and to conclude with this, Mr President, about amateur sport, because we are talking about sport in general, about sporting spirits, it is clear that generalism and reference to the government's intentions to support amateur sport, such as serious shortages in staff, in logistical technical infrastructure, are nothing but an organised framework for unions and sports. Once again the OAED programmes and time contracts are a solution for the government, which refuses the permanent recruitment of qualified staff in the sport sector. Same for the Sports Agency Register that the government advertises with many problems in the process of registering in the sports register. We do not think that any association with active activity and participation in sport should be excluded from the federations' electoral process. Do not take advantage of the sport register as a tool for exclusion from the electoral process. Take into account the active activity of a club for participation in the electoral process in sport and remove any bureaucratic procedures. In addition, we are opposed - the Minister knows - to the government's practice of making sporting records accessible to sponsors in order to choose unions for their sponsorship programmes. In our view, the sports register should not use clubs for the interests and pursuit of companies. For our party, then, sport is a right for everyone and not a few. There may be a bridge of friendship between the peoples of all the earth. For the JRC sport as well as culture are a social asset for every young person, away from sponsors and advertising packages, in the context of the struggle to satisfy modern needs. They are part of the cultural and general development of the people. As social phenomena and functions are more widely associated with health, physical condition and mental balance. They are a key prerequisite, especially for young people, to form as integrated as possible a social personality, developing and developing collectiveity, racing and discipline in rules and social values. On the basis of all the above, therefore, the JRC will declare "the presents" in this contract. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Syncis. Is there a colleague who wants to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u54	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u55	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u56	In view of the vote at 12 noon, so as not to delay, I would ask that it be five minutes. I'll put five minutes and let no time be observed. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the third bill on the Cyprus Agreement is coming between our country and Japan to strengthen cooperation between the two countries, in view of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2021, which, due to the Coronovirus pandemic, have already been transferred from 2020 to 2021. All our wishes are that these Olympic Games can be carried out, of course, first without problems, in the spirit of olympicism and struggling. Here to say that our participating athletes make us proud and have our full support. However, here I would like to stress, Minister, for the images that took place a day ago with the sports facilities of Agios Cosmas. We saw our athletes complaining about working out and practicing in abandoned facilities. This, unfortunately, is happening today, in 2020. The responsibilities of many of the previous government and yours. So I would like your reply here, Minister. I would also like to say that I have tabled a question on the issue of the establishment of Saint Cosmas, where I am waiting for your reply. The main objective, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece and Japan, is to maintain through the agreement the Olympic and Paralympic Games as an international sporting event, as well as to work together to enhance transparency and good management of sport. In this direction, as we said at the outset, the two countries agreed to exchange know-how in the fields of civil protection and security for the preparation and conduct of the 2021 Olympic Games, as well as to cooperate in the control of pharmacopoeia, athletics, infrastructures for SMEs and training centres. In this context, therefore, Mr Minister, there is also an exchange of visits between the two countries. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already been placed in detail in committee. For this international convention we say 'yes', with our country's contribution to the best possible organization of the Olympic Games in 2021. A bilateral agreement that strengthens our country's international relations to the Olympic ideal and contributes to cooperation in the fields of sport and culture. Bad lies, as I said before, if our heavy industry is tourism, our culture is our attractive proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The Vice-President, Mrs Sakova, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan, signed in Akazan on 5 July 2017, is to be ratified. The Convention also provides for the increased validity of Article 28(1) of the Constitution. This means that since its ratification and entry into force it will be an integral part of Greek law and, indeed, will prevail over any other provision of law. This Convention, the memorandum, refers in general terms to the promotion of the links of friendship and cooperation between the two countries through the Ministries in the field of sport and to the strengthening of cooperation between us on international issues of sport. Topics one, two and three of the memorandum defines the framework for bilateral cooperation in the light of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2020 in Tokyo. We have rightly wondered what the practical importance of this contract in this area would be, given that only a few months have elapsed until the 2020 Olympics. Perhaps now with the extension given to time, we have more time available to us and this will help. It is clear that the scope for its recompense in this area would now be too limited. It should be noted here that this is a memorandum that has already been signed since July 2017. His early ratification would obviously make sense to his feasibility. However, the delay in the ratification of the Convention, I fear, in fact, is depriving it or, in any case, actually very drastically restricting its real scope and the benefits expected from it. At this point we should reasonably ask ourselves why the ratification process has been delayed so long, to the extent that it is deprived of a key area of their scope for the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, which have, fortunately, been postponed for 2021. It must be said that once again the poor operation of the Greek state has negative consequences, and in this particular case, I think it is clear that it exposes us internationally. In any case, let me have a little parentheses. As far as the know-how for the investment sector and the maintenance of sports construction works in particular of the Olympics are concerned, we would be, I would say, rather a bad example to avoid. Therefore, only our negative experience and practice should be brought to our Japanese friends in order to avoid following us. I mean, for example, everything we've lived since the Olympic Games in connection with construction. Installations, which the Greek people paid extremely expensively, remain untreated in many cases and were not attributed for real use for the benefit of the sporting idea. Others were completely abandoned and others are not even useful because of lack of maintenance. It is characteristic that Greece is one of the few exceptions, if not the only one, where the organization of the Olympic Games did not work as a headline for the development of sport. What we have had since the 2004 Olympic Games was a bitter crackdown, that was just a party of the contractors. But let us return to the contract. Then, in particular, to the theme three, it refers to general cooperation in the field of sport, with an exchange of experience, knowledge, information and documentation material. In addition, the exchange of know-how on investment and the maintenance of sports construction projects. Finally, also the exchange of visits of sports clubs and federations from various sports. In a positive direction, areas of cooperation such as sport for all, sport for HEIs, athletics, pharmacology control, management and maintenance of sports facilities, coaching centres, etc. are identified. It is also intended to promote joint initiatives to increase transparency and good governance in sport. In this sense, international cooperation, the exchange of experience, know-how, etc. all these sensitive and critical sectors are specified as having positive reciprocity effects. The contractual text is very general. This means that its satisfactory and beneficial implementation will depend on the energy and commitment shown by the two parties' responsible parties in its implementation. If we are optimistic, we have the right to hope that the two parties will take all possible steps to make the implementation of this convention really beneficial. Subsequently, in a relatively relevant manner, it is laid down in item 5 that the financial charges to cover the costs of implementation of the contract will be co-decided on a case-by-case basis by the members. Finally, item 6 sets out the duration of the contract with a four-year period from its entry into force with automatic successive four-year renewals. As MERA25, we have a general position in favour of all mutually beneficial international cooperation. I myself too, because of my individual course and the particular interest I have in sport, would say that one cannot object to an international cooperation that tends to improve the conditions of this global sport movement. Of course, I would prefer contractual texts with more specific commitments and more visible results. Obviously the beneficial application of this contract depends on the time-consuming political will of both parties during its term of office. However, we hope that the implementation of this Treaty can actually have positive effects and fulfil the objectives which led it to its conclusion. In conclusion, Mr President, we hope that it can really be a basis for upgrading the healthy sport movement through our bilateral cooperation with Japan. I therefore hope that in an entire material debate on the progress of Greek sport on the serious problems that exist at the moment. And, of course, we must also discuss the preparation of our athletes in the light of the Olympic Games and the Tokyo Paralympics when they take place in 2021 and with the problems that have arisen because of the coronary. As far as ratification is concerned, we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mrs Sacorafa. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Konstantinos Boubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, we have been late, late. Kazan 2017, that is, if we didn't have the coronary, the Olympics and the Paralympic Games in Japan would have finished. We'd be behind time margins. What I have read since, Minister, which we have had a debate in the committee is that there are relationships of friendship with the country of the Sun. We celebrated a few months ago a hundred and twenty years of diplomacy and commercial relations. There is the city of Inazawa, which is bribed with ancient Olympia. There is the city of Misato and Kizu, who is the mayor, who came to the mayor of Peristeri and has exchanged views. In fact, I read that the mayor of Misato is very philhellene with a form, which presents the ancient Greek spirit, this relationship between culture and brotherhood with Greece. Besides, both countries have a long history, tradition, customs and culture. We have a lot of similarities, but also a lot of differences. If anyone sees the Japanese way they act, it works together. We're more - we'd say - personalized. As the vote on the education bill will come in a little while, if you see the Japanese in their educational system, in the first ten, twelve years, they do not engage in lessons or give written examinations, rather than the behavior and conduct of the children, to have a team spirit, that is, behaviour towards the elderly, the neighbor, the fellowman. They give too much weight. They have an educational system that in many areas is an example to be imitated. Also, there is something that we disagree, not personally as a Greek Solution. We could talk about it. They wear special uniforms in schools. This in some here is causing reactions. There in Japan they believe that if there is a uniformity, there is a better spirit of cooperation and one - we would say - a class balance. There are no such differences. As far as the know-how you are placing, Minister, is concerned with what the costs will be, what will the taxpayer pay. A question arises: It is good to transfer know-how, the knows-how, where Japan is a paradigm ahead. Everyone knows that with high technology. The point is, how the know-how will be transferred, how these exchanges of athletes will be fulfilled to gain experience. But it is an opportunity to introduce another level for disabled people as well. It's not just the Olympics. It's the Paralympic Games. It is good to change, if I remember very well, for people with disabilities, for there to also be facilities, but also for behaviour and, at any rate, for people with disabilities to say that we are also a state of equality and equality for those with disabilities. But as far as the know-how and experience we have gained since 2004, what do we have to present? At the moment, we have eighty Olympic projects, which are devastated. They've been devastated. There are issues from the Olympic Committee. And Mrs Angelopoulos has her responsibilities, which are also the head of the committee for the two hundred years of state liberation. There are still pending cases, such as in Achaia, such as in Chania with the construction of a bicycle road there, like the ski resort in Shelly. In other words, what know-how to give, what experience, when we did not plan properly, when today there are cities like Toronto, such as Atlanta, such as Barcelona, which still pays for the Olympic Games that were organised decades ago and are more financially sound countries. What experience will we give from the Olympic projects that we have built and used in nothing, because we had no plan, just from the roof "Go with and let me cry", which we say, the Kalatrava roof? We do not have to present a good witness from outside and a good person to the Japanese who are more grouped, more disciplined, more merciful in the commercialisation of the 2004 Olympic Games. Because it was a merchandise for many. Yes, it was a projection in Greece, but it cost the Greek people a lot. We see this cooperation positive. We cannot say that we do not see her positive. There are many questions about the time the contract is signed. Also, what Olympic projects are we going to show? What's our picture? Eighty projects are devastated. A lot of cases are in justice. What can we tell the Japanese? Say we haven't handled it, right? Or should we tell them that these works were made useless? There's the Barrier Remove Center in Nice. They gave it to the University of Piraeus. Where is he? It's deserted. Of course, the Japanese are also accused of some things, as far as their attitude to the environment is concerned. We were talking about the amalgams, about the dentists. Still, there's a category of one factory in Japan for the cyanide. The Japanese are also accused of hunting whales. There are also the vulnerabilities of Japan as far as its environmental behaviour is concerned. In conclusion, we see that cooperation with the Sun's country will be positive, because we will also gain Japanese and us experience and knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Panagiota Dunia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this third bill under discussion is also extremely important for the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of our country and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan, which is coming to strengthen our sporting cooperation with Japan. This aims to strengthen our cooperation in the light of the Olympic and Paralympic Games that were to take place in Tokyo in 2020, in cooperation with the formulation and support of proposals concerning Olympic Truce and the strengthening of transparency and democratisation of the sport sector, to strengthen cooperation on the exchange of experience and knowledge, information and documentation in the field of sport, know-how in the field of investment and maintenance of sports infrastructures, visits of sports associations and teams in cooperation with the respective federation, in cooperation in the fields of sport for all, sport for persons with disabilities, sports, pedagogicals, drug control, management and maintenance of sports facilities and others. The memorandum that we signed in 2017 with Japan will remain in force for four years. It will then be automatically renewed for successive periods of four years. Of course, it will certainly contribute to a useful and constructive cooperation between the two countries in the field of sport. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy seeks to cooperate with as many countries as possible in the field of culture and sport. The Greek culture, but also the athletic ideal that distinguishes us, must be widely known. Only if we communicate them will they be able to be consolidated and appreciated, as they deserve the particular characteristics of our cultural identity and our sporting culture from all the peoples and all the states. It is our duty to support culture and sport, to preserve our cultural wealth and to deliver it to the next generations, as, of course, to spread our enormous cultural heritage to all the ends of the earth. That is what we are doing with this bill that we are voting on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, my colleague. A parliamentary spokesman does not want to speak and therefore the spokesman for Sports Minister Eleftherios Aeggeakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are pleased to see a bill which concerns a very important strategic objective, that of the extroversion of Greek sport in the international arena. And I'm happy for two more reasons. Because this memorandum of cooperation was signed by the previous government, and we are bringing it to ratification today and, secondly, because, as has been pointed out in the debate in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, there is almost unanimity of all the parties on this matter with the exception of the Communist Party which disagrees on its own ideological grounds. This shows that at least on the issue of extroversion to sport and the promotion of Olympic principles and values, we have a common basis of understanding. Our country last year with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis puts the country firmly and decisively on the path of growth. The successful management of the crisis of the coronary pandemic has put us on the map of countries to be imitated, filled with pride, puts us with good hopes for the rapid recovery of tourism and the economy. Collaborations with other countries enhance the prestige of Greek sport, internationally communicate its practices and introduce innovative methods that apply other sports systems from other countries. Extroversion is not only vital for the development of good governance applications, but also for strengthening sporting tourism. That is why we are aiming to demand international sports events which are going to be a attraction for thousands of sports lovers who will support local economies. But the pandemic has a little frozen our programming, as well as at a global level, with the postponement of international events, but has not changed our strategic planning for the development, enhancement and extroversion of the sport sector. Especially this year, when we are in the Olympic year before, our activity and our productive cooperation with the other countries is very important. As we all know, the Olympic Games and the Tokyo Paralympic Games were postponed in 2021. But the Olympic Games are not only competitions and performances, it is an idea of timelessness that passes from ancient times to generation and continues its course in time. The same Olympic Games teach the value of the common harmonious and peaceful collapsing of athletes from different social and cultural cultures. It is olympism that demonstrates that the peace of the euphoria and noble speech are essential to the society that we want to have. It is a great opportunity to build on solid foundations the values of the Olympic ideal and to transform them into our society. In parallel to the particular gravity of this year, we invest in strengthening the extroversion of Greek sport through the conclusion and ratification of a series of memorandums of cooperation with other countries. Memorandums of cooperation have already been launched with countries of different culture and sport from our own, such as Cuba, Azerbaijan, Qatar, China, Serbia and Japan. This practice is not done for the sight. Our government is not going to stay in the press, but it is going on in the essence of these agreements, channelling all the benefits to the Greek society. Through the Memorandum of Cooperation, Greek sport has the opportunity to promote the principles governing culture and its know-how. Most importantly, though, thanks to these constructive agreements, habits and practices unknown to us that will raise our level can be introduced into Greek sport. The ratification of the Memorandum of Cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan is not at all random. Japan is at the heart of Olympic preparation and works intensively for this to be ready to offer high-level benefits to athletes, coaches, institutions and spectators. Japan can teach us much from its level of preparation on the occasion of the struggles. Suffice it to think that on the basis of local surveys a year before the games at least 17% of municipalities outside Tokyo have launched advertising campaigns aimed at attracting visitors, while 42% is conducting similar campaigns months before the games. Tokyo is consistently classified as one of the most pleasant cities in the world, has modern and innovative infrastructures and spaces for all sports. It also offers the greatest security guarantees. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Just a minute, Mr President, still. In addition, Japan teaches what programming means. Construction of new and temporary facilities, including the national stage, the Olympic and the paralympic village, is progressing rapidly. It prejudges us that it will be an organization above expectations. So it is certain that we have much to learn from this new cooperation, both in terms of technology and in terms of the efficient and consistent planning of the Japanese in terms of the preparation, study and implementation of the construction of sports facilities, in line with the rewarding benefits they are going to receive. Ladies and gentlemen, since the very beginning of our country's governance, we have reiterated our commitment to paying particular attention to sport and, in particular, to amateur sport. This is not only because sport is an integral part of the culture of Greece, the birthplace of the Olympic Games and the Olympic ideal, but because we consider that it is a necessary physical and spiritual rehab. We want sport for the many, and above all, for the next generations. Our aim is to stimulate the interest of Greek sporting society and to form a sporting culture in young ages, which will yield fruits in the medium term, leading to a healthier model of living. And we have all seen the quarantine period the necessity of turning towards a healthier way of living, integrating the exercise into our everyday lives. If we manage to acquire a more quality sport, we will not only have better health, we will have taken the first step to improve as a society. Our goal is to be to be a celebration, a celebration that rewards effort, noble speech, the struggle for improvement, solidarity, grouping, the joy of travel, the prize of victory, a celebration that everyone can participate, where families with children can go to the field to applaud their team, a celebration that will not be fanatical, but which everyone will encourage players, the athletes of their team and which everyone will recognize the best at the end of the race. All this is not a report of ideas, it can be done if we all believe in this objective. Our government policy on sport seeks to become aware that it is a basic social asset and not a luxury for a few. We want everyone to be an estate, to be part of the everyday life of all citizens, to become a way of life, a culture. We emphasise the strengthening of amateur sport with specific direct and indirect measures which we will shortly announce and will be very specific and I am sure they will share many smiles with many. From the little ages in amateur sport we well know that characters, attitudes and a healthier way of life are involved. That's why our priority is amateur sport. And finally, we are creating a transparent and plausible framework for the principles of equality. For example, I mention the system of 'Chillos' for the evaluation of federations and the distribution of state funding transparently, the Register of Sports Associations for the registration of all amateur sports clubs in our country by a simplified procedure and without deadline, the 'POLOPAS' programme which we will shortly announce in collaboration with the CEDEFOP and which will record all the sports infrastructures in Greece that are nowhere registered and collected. Finally, I am delighted to mention - I have left it for the end - the program 'ZESH ATHELLIC' which our Olympics and champions, namely the ambassadors of ZESH ATHELLIC', have responded massively to the call for initiatives, much more during the quarantine period. We owe them a big thank you. Greece can go forward and go forward if we all believe in the possibilities that this country has. As regards the issues of the use of Olympic facilities, the issues of Agios Cosmas and a number of other questions raised are not here. I am available to discuss it at any time, but of course also to respond to the parliamentary control which - as far as I have been informed - has been tabled but has not yet reached my hands. Be well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: "Scientific cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology of Japan" was concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of the draft law and they will be voted on separately. We note that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the hotel article and the whole. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u67	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u68	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u69	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Statement of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sport, Science and Technology of Japan" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u71	The House has given the mandate requested. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 83 a]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the vote of the Ministry of Education's bill, we will stop to settle the Chamber, to get it cleaned up by any coronary - which we think is not there, but for security reasons, we will do so - and I would ask you all to come back to 12 noon just to start the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 83a]] [[The list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members has been acknowledged. They are all Members of the Communist Party of Greece who have signed the request for a roll-call vote.]] We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Enlargement of the School and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote in principle and on Articles 5, 9, 50, 68, 70, 73, 82, 96, 97 and 98 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group whose text reads as follows: I will read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. [[Names are spoken and it is assumed that they are here because of the special situation and are therefore present.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 5, 9, 68, 73 and 82 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece whose text reads as follows: There is therefore the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote by both Parliamentary Groups. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree to add the two votes to one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u73	The two votes therefore coincide in one. At this point, I would like to tell you that, as you all know, in view of the specific situation of the coronary, we will be voting per group. The first group is from number 1 to 60, from Mr. Apostolos Avdela to Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios. The second group is from Mr Spyridonas - Adoni Georgiadis to Mr Christos Katsotis. The third group is from Mrs Harula (Hara) Kafantaris to Mr Georgios Mulkiotis. The fourth group is from Mrs Fotini Bakadima to Mr Nektarios Santorini. The fifth group is from Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to Mr. Georgios Psychogios. Inside the Chamber will only be those colleagues who belong to the respective group. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be an electronic roll-call vote on the principle and Articles 5, 9, 50, 68, 70, 73, 82, 96, 97 and 98 of the draft law. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill and 10 articles. Each time on the screen up to 4 articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all eleven fields included in the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. We would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber after the roll-call vote was completed to vote for the other articles, the farewell article and the whole bill. As you have been informed by your groups, the system will remain open for about an hour, namely by 13.15 and the vote will certainly take place per sixty Members, as we said at the beginning. I would like to ask those colleagues who vote to leave the Chamber for other Members to come in. Don't worry about the vote. The results will be announced in the tables too, but they can also be informed by their parliamentary groups. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u75	There are colleagues whom I will read, Georgios Arvanitides, Apostolos Panas, Evangelia Likolis, Alexios Tsipras, Socrates Famelos, Panagiotis Skourletis, Catherine Notopoulou, Ioannis Mousalas, Christos Giannoulis, Theodora Aegeris, Ioannis Amanatidis, Alexandros Triantafylides, who will not be present in today's roll-call vote and know us by letter of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall not be counted on the counting of votes and shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that the roll-call vote will expire at 13.15 p.m., but for the sake of fellow Members' facilities we have extended the time until 13.30 p.m. However, if there is a colleague in the Chamber who has not yet voted to tell us. [[CHANGING PAGE]] As far as I can see, there is no one. Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in the draft law: 'Enlargement of the School and other provisions'. The principle of the draft law: A total of 282 Members voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. On the first point, i.e. 'Notice', 124 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 5 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 5, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 168 Members. Against Rule 5, i.e. 'NO', they voted 115 Members. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 9 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 9, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 187 Members. Against Rule 9, i.e. 'Notice', 96 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 50 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 50, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 50, i.e. 'NO', 125 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Article 68 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 68, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 68, i.e. 'NOV', they voted 115 Members. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 70 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 70, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 70, in other words 'NO', they voted 106 Members. 'PARON' were voted 19 MPs. Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 73 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 73, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 73, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 115 Members. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 82 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 82, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Under Rule 82, i.e. 'NO', 119 Members voted. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 96 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 96, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 96, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 115 Members. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 96 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 97 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 97, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 97, i.e. 'OH', 125 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 97 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 98 of the bill: A total of 283 Members voted. In favour of Rule 98, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 98, i.e. 'Notice', they voted 115 Members. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 98 was therefore accepted as a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that, as you have seen, there are two hundred and eighty-three Members in the Chamber, apart from the other administrative actors, and that the sanitary cleanliness for the next sitting must be made, I am now announcing that the next draft law will start at 14:30. At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles, amendments, as well as on the nominee article and on the entire bill. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. I would like to point out that the vote includes a hundred articles, nine amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll on the scroll down screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u79	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u80	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u81	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: ‘Study Upgrade and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u83	The House has given the mandate requested. As I said before, this is where we will be interrupting until 14.30 p.m. in order to get the Chamber to take care of health, because this two-hour period has entered over three hundred people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Stavros Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the enhancement and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health, ratified by Law No. 4564/2018 (A' 170) and other provisions on the aerospace of patients". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 June 2020 to discuss the draft law at a meeting and organised uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate on the bill will be held by the rapporteurs and special speakers for 15 minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives for 12 minutes, the speakers on the list for seven minutes and the Minister responsible for eighteen minutes, pursuant to Rules 64, 97, 98 and 107 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. The groups have already indicated in their document the speakers who are proposing to take the floor in today's debate on the draft law. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u85	The House has agreed. Before I give the floor to the first rapporteur, Mr Akuppi, from the New Democracy party, I would like to say now, in order to correct the list of speakers, that, for the reason that I have been personally explained by Mr Frangidis, the first in the list of speakers - otherwise nothing will change - it will be Mr Georgios Fragidis and the rest of the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. My intervention has to do with this. An amendment from the Ministry of Labour was tabled at 13:40. The first thing I want to stress is the unacceptable in terms of the procedure. The amendment comes last minute, having left an entire morning, which we could have a long time to know about - I do not know about the rest, I will speak about our own - and study the amendment. I think that touches all the groups. It is an unacceptable practice, which we denounce, Mr President. Of course, it's not the first time, you'll tell me, but it can't go on. Of course, if I am not mistaken, at least electronically, the Health Ministry's amendment was tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u89	Two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u90	Two already? Two ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u91	They've got a life!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u92	Okay, everybody touches that wish! Mr President, what will happen? How long will this story continue? After all, it is not time for you to study it. And we're not talking about a surface study. So the procedure is unacceptable and I think that the Bureau should take action.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u93	What you are saying, Mr Vice-President. I have to tell you that I have just seen the amendment on my own initiative and approval, and I think it has been allocated to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u94	There's only one copy, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u95	I immediately sent a photo and it will be distributed to you. I call on the rapporteur of the new Republic to take a step, Mr Dionysios Epipe, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a draft law by the Ministry of Health, which concerns the ratification of the individual donation contract for the project from 6-9-2018 main donation contract between Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure. In the extremely successful effort of the government to confront and manage the coronary crisis in our country, we have also seen how important the contribution of public benefit institutions such as Stavros Niarchos Foundation, the creation of the necessary infrastructure and the overall improvement of the quality of health services in our country is. In fact, it is worth noting that the total donation from the public utilities is an initiative intended to give a new dynamic to public health, strengthening it with a total cost of over 400 million euros. The main donation is thus expected to cover a wide range of needs. As far as the draft law under discussion is concerned, the work V of the donation contract is concerned with strengthening the capacity and effectiveness of the ACB's aerospace facilities. To this end, it was planned to finance the supply of two new aircraft with their equipment and the repair of two existing helicopters. As a result of new assessments of the conditions, the Greek State has proposed, as the most appropriate for the needs of the services of the AOCB, the supply of two new helicopters, instead of the maintenance of the existing ones, and has committed itself to their own support. The institution accepted the proposal and approved a corresponding increase in the budget up to EUR 26,400,000. In view of the above, an amendment to the original contract was signed on 5-11-2019, which was ratified by Law 4638/2019 and provided for the amendment and replacement of the corresponding article. Now with regard to the contract to be ratified, it includes a detailed description of the parties' obligations to complete the donation. Thus, the present sanction contains the following briefly: Article 1 states that the object of this is to finance the supply of two new aircraft, together with their equipment, as well as two new helicopters, as well as their equipment. Article 2 sets out the conditions for the implementation of the project V and the provision of the new air means will take place by the Greek State and the Ministry of Health, for the use of the EAW, with the assistance of the Air Force and will be financed by the Foundation. Airways, after their delivery to the Greek State, will be hosted on aerospace base, which the EAW operates in cooperation with the Hellenic Air Force. The air means and equipment remain in the full ownership of the Ministry of Health and the use of the EMCDDA. Accordingly, the Greek State, the EAW and the Air Force must ensure the necessary spare parts and consumables so that the operation of the air means is unresolved and uninterrupted and meet the purpose of project V. Article 3 shall refer to the budget of the project. The completion cost of the project will not exceed EUR 26,400,000 and is entirely covered by the institution by its own or through the implementing body. This amount is not subject to VAT and customs duties on exemption from the law. Article 4 sets out the timetable for implementation of the V project. The implementation shall take place after the date of ratification by law of this sub-contract. It will be finalized by the institution. Separate timetables will be drawn up for the part of the work on each airspace. Article 5 refers to the certification of completion and donation of the project by receiving all airspace and the repayment of the supplier by the institution or the implementing entity. The completion of the donation corresponding to each airspace is certified and it is assumed that the Greek State and the EAW agree and accept the technical specifications of the airspace and its equipment and recognises that it is its exclusive choice and choice, suitable for the intended use. Article 6 sets out the name of the project. The V project bears the biennial name that contains the name and refers to the Stavros Niarchos Foundation as a donor exclusively for the financing of the donation. Article 7 contains provisions concerning the maintenance, operation, safety and maintenance of the V project. With the certification of the completion of project V, the Greek State, the EAW and the Air Force undertake to ensure the maintenance of the air means and their equipment, to ensure their smooth and complete operation with well-trained and adequate personnel, as well as to ensure that all necessary and necessary security measures are taken. By ratifying this donation with this draft law, the work of aerospace facilities will be carried out by new flying means, specially designed and designed for this purpose, with modern medical equipment and specially trained crews and technical support personnel. These new flying instruments meet the modern safety and airworthiness requirements set by international organisations. They have access to all airports and helmets of the country. They offer a significant reduction in operating costs, while at the same time unleashing valuable hours of flights to the existing airborne media in order to exploit themselves in their main mission, which is the country's defensive armour. In addition, the second article of the draft law defines the procedure for meeting all the needs that may arise in island areas throughout the territory for air transport of Coronary patients. In particular, paragraph 1 lays down for the period until 30 September 2020 the possibility of using aircraft properly designed for aerospace-driven patients and of any kind of aerospace-required patients in view of the increased needs that may arise during the tourist season. At the same time, a number of procedural and organisational issues are regulated for the conduct of the Aerospace. The use of aircraft and other air means is foreseen, firstly, through private donations and, secondly, through lease by means of compensation for use and even remuneration. To that end, a list of aircraft available to a partnership is established for the conduct of the air services with criteria for the conclusion of the lease contract, the directity of the service and the lowest bid. In the event of the availability or inadequacy of the available air means of transport, due to the number and increased frequency of air transport incidents, provision is made for the possibility of obtaining private air means from those listed on the list for which a service compensation and operator fee will be paid. Paragraph 2 provides that the EAW shall be responsible for coordinating the airway coordination, which shall support its operation with appropriate human resources, rescuers and crew. Appropriate assistance for staff needs is provided by health regions. A maximum period of three months shall be set for the performance of the order. At this point I am forced to refer to the positions and objections of Vice-Presidents on the issue of renting private air means. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that your opposition is not appropriate. But I'm not here to give you advice on how you're holding your opposition. It is yours, and that is why you are judged by the Greek citizens. But you must realise that something is wrong. And to be clearer, through the stress you may have had, you see Croatia in Evia or Evia in Croatia. You see 32 million EOT campaigns and in the end it turns out that 32 million are the whole EOT budget and that the Marketing Greece campaign did not cost 1 euro. You see health regions, prison cleanliness and scandals everywhere, without any basis, without any proof, with any papers you present in Parliament or in the committees. You even spoke of the scandal - supposedly - of the prisons for disinfection, and of course you forget that for four and a half years you have been the ones who allowed prison centres to become criminal education centres, to operate in ghettos and to have luxury cells and other cells in which the conditions were such that violated all human rights. So you must realize that you are exposed to citizens' eyes every day. Ladies and gentlemen, there are so many serious issues about a high-level political debate and discussion, such as, for example, the economy, geopolitical issues, security, refugee and others. But you choose to opposition even to issues that only have a positive sign for the Greek society. It would be sad to think that even to assume that you would or would be in the management of the health crisis by the current government had failed and that the outcome of things was different. I could not even imagine that we are trying to balance previous situations in which you are fully responsible. It is certain that as long as the government achieves its objectives, it faces both effective and effective major crises and does not stop producing important work, both - as it seems - your stress will rise and the correspondingly so many mistakes you will make. So you come to the committee and criticise unobjectedly, forgetting that we are in the guise of a dynamic crisis. At the moment, no one knows how things will develop ahead of the summer season. So, once again, we legislate in order to ensure that cases of the virus are dramatically increased and that many patients are transported at the same time, that the necessary air means can be rented. We are talking about it again - only if it becomes absolutely necessary. And in the midst of an unprecedented economic crisis, this is a case that should be anticipated. Moreover, as has been demonstrated, the Government of New Democracy is making immediate and effective solutions. He doesn't expect the disaster to come to see how he manages it. In conclusion, it is now known and undeniable that the government has managed to significantly improve the level of medical services and ensure the best possible conditions for Greek citizens. In this effort, it was also remarkable to assist the public institutions, such as the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It is therefore important that we are discussing today a donation that will further enhance the quality of health services to Greek citizens. As Greeks, we have proved that we can make it and get the winners out of every crisis. So we continue the good work, always following the experts’ instructions and looking towards the future. This is the only way to keep us safe and we will be able to quickly overcome the health consequences of the health crisis. For all the above reasons, we propose that this bill be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u97	We are also grateful to Mr Apepi and to him for the way in which time is managed. I call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, the amendment has not yet come. Is it possible to testify? Because I see a concern, a difficulty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u99	I do not know where you see this, but the amendment has first been given to the rapporteurs. Hot request, if not printed, to be printed for all colleagues. These are the two amendments tabled by both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour. I said at the very first moment that the rapporteurs should be handed over in a hurry, but also for all the Members. So, Mr. Barca, she's there to take her. Here, Mr. Thraniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the initiative of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to take the initiative to strengthen the provision of health services to the citizens in the midst of a very difficult situation, resulting from the introduction of a strict fiscal policy in our country, due to the policies pursued and carried out in previous years, is a very important fact. In this respect, we can only welcome it. This initiative was launched in September 2017 between the Social Benefit Foundation “Stavros Niarchos” and the Ministry of Health and resulted in the signing of a contract to strengthen the public health system of USD 400 million. This agreement was signed by the then Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and by the President of the Joint Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" Andreas Drakopoulos. It provided for a series of projects, including the provision of equipment to enhance capacity and efficiency of airspace facilities by the EAFRD. It is the contract which we have to ratify today. However, the fact is that with New Democracy taking over governance, changes in the convention began. First change in the organisation of the new Komotini Hospital by a legal person governed by public law, to a legal person governed by private law, outside public control, with all that implies for employment rights, recruitment, non-transparency. At the same time, the supply of four electron production machinery and other radiopharmaceuticals provided for in the contract was annulled. What does it mean to cancel the supply of machinery? That radiopharmaceuticals should be supplied by the private sector. Is that bad? No, not necessarily. But we don't live in a world of angelics made up. So, listen, what the Greek Cancer Federation says about patients who resort to private radiation treatments: "An immoral and non-legal practice on the part of the private sector, which, although it has signed contracts, appears to be inconsistent with the EEAS, is not enough to comply with these conditions, but operates by imposing additional illegal charges on patients who are in need and who have no other options, they ultimately suffer." This is also a response to the rapporteur in the previous session, who was exuding the private sector, the voluntary offer to combat the coronary. I would remind you that with 30 million, with which the private sector was subsidised, not just donations would do, but much more. However, we do not have the opportunity to miss the fact that some have found the opportunity to speculate on the grounds of the pandemic, as well as some from the private sector have refused to accept for consideration or care for people suspected of the coronary. I'll give you a personal example from last night. I usually have with me my transport mask bag. I started at home and on the road I found out I didn't have the bag with me, I didn't have any masks. I'm going into a pharmacy to buy a mask. They ask me: “How many do you want? One or two?' I say: “Give me five. How much do they do?’ They say to me: ‘EUR 3,5’. Because professionally I used masks, I would remind you that I bought those masks, the fifty, the four and five euros! Think about how much the price of the mask has increased, which is compulsory, which should be provided to the citizens at low prices, and yet some have found the opportunity to speculate. Article 2 of this Convention opens the way for the entry of individuals into the aerospace. The Workers' Association in the EAW has already issued a statement condemning Article 2 and asking for it to be withdrawn. The decision to withdraw C-27 aircraft and C-130 reinforces this view, also raises questions and concerns. Who, for example, and why did he take this decision and with what reason in the middle of a pandemic, withdraw aircraft from the airlock? It is a political decision and the reason is obvious. If flying means cannot run the aerospace, then we are resorting to the private sector. But look at the history of the aerospace. For the purposes of aerospace, the Ministry of Health provided in 1999 five Augusta type helicopters, sanitary designed for use by the EAW. In 2001, 2002 and 2003, three air accidents, helicopter falling, caused the death of four people. It is a heavy price for a short period of time and in such a short time. It's the price for those who try to save our lives. We applaud them, but when they demand self-evident, they are delivered to the mock. In 1999, too, the EAW is supplied by two aircraft of type Piaggio for long-distance aerospace. I have a simple and reasonable idea. The five helicopters would take over the aerospace facilities from nearby islands and other areas that had no airport, while the two Piaggio would take over the long distances between airports. The two Piaggios came to Greece in the early 2000s, were paid normally, but were never used, because they were found inappropriate by the receiving committee. They were stored in a shelter of the former Greek airport and their luck remains unknown. The violent 2010-2015 fiscal adjustment, the result of which was a 25% reduction in national income, did not leave citizens' health care unaffected, their national health system and structures, including the National Direct Aid Centre. As in the rest of the ERC, it has caused further difficulties in the disposal of airborne means and, above all, in repairing the lesions. These factors have made it quite difficult to send air spaces and to facilitate the use of the Air Force. In addition to the Air Force, the project involved the Military Air Force with the provision of helicopters for the Cyclades base at Syros airport, where it was launched in October 2016. The Headquarters of the Fire Corps, with a memorandum of cooperation, provided airplanes within the base of Thessaloniki, which started operating in January 2018. And a year ago, the fifth helicopter base was launched in Aktio to meet the needs of Ionian islands and the difficult mountain areas of Pindos. Thus a network of aerospace facilities was created for emergency medicine. The completion of the plan provides a basis for the northern Aegean Sea and ensures full coverage of the island country in the aerospace sector. The donation of the Social Benefit Foundation "Stavros Niarchos" contributes decisively in this direction. From this design, Crete, for which there was a visionary design of primary aerospaces, remains out at the moment. And when we say 'primary airspace', we mean the crossing from the place of the incident to the nearest hospital. Crete has all the conditions. He's got the staff. This effort needs to be strengthened, this project needs to be implemented, and because of its high tourism, because of its prospects, but also because the road network is currently not helping remote areas, such as Heraklion from Sitia, where it is close to 50 km away for rapid access to the public health system. A strategic plan for cross-border cooperation between Greece and Cyprus was launched to strengthen the islands and cross-border cross-border cooperation through the Sea and PAYAS programme. It was decided to purchase three floating ambulances with a view to developing in Naxos, Leros and Rhodes, covering the neighbouring islands as well as ten vehicles. The request for funding was submitted on 31 July 2017 and the provisional contractor was declared in June 2019. These are the ones for which the Minister for Maritime Affairs expressly states that they are ready to set up service projects, without mentioning what was previously said. That may be minor. But it is an answer to what SYRIZA did for four and a half years. The answer is that it was trying in difficult budgetary conditions to shield the country sanitary, that is, what the previous ones did not do all the previous years and, above all, effectively without direct awards. It was also possible to acquire a ‘rescue, ambulance crew’ qualification with the operation of a public training institute in the first half of the academic year 2017-2018 in Sitia. Today, some eighty students from all over Crete are in Lassithi, while graduates meet needs in the public and private sectors. The higher school function will enable increased qualifications to be gained in the effort to save people's lives. The transport project records a thousand five hundred eighty-eight eighty-eight aerials from the island country broken down into different bases. Much less were the aerospace facilities held by Crete, which has relative self-responsibility and non-insular destinations. On average more than five Aerospaces per day. It should be noted that the northern Aegean, Crete and the Ionian islands after sunset are served exclusively by aircraft. On the contrary, in the southern Aegean, the main weight is lifted by helicopters. This also leads to unacceptable long flights for these areas with the remaining helicopters. The pandemic showed the need and lack of air means. At the same time, however, it is also a great opportunity to develop and complete the planning, since European aid will give clear priority to health protection measures. The big question and concern at the same time are whether the measures will be public or private. The pandemic highlighted hegemony, preparedness and usefulness of the public health system and the skills of nursing and medical staff. Only the presence of the state is capable of ensuring an adequate safety net. At the difficult moment of the emergency, the role of the state is irreplaceable. Our country comes out of the epidemic with fewer cases and losses compared to other countries and with equivalent population criteria. This is due to the fact that the measures were taken in time. And logically, the government has credited them. But it is also because of the attitude of the Vice-Population, particularly the Officer, of responsibility for the Greek people and not demagogy, but also of the discipline shown by the majority of the Greek people in the instructions of the coordinating body for the pandemic. This is also a response to the new Republic's rapporteur for the attitude of SYRIZA in opposition. Restrictive measures are gradually suspended. However, the risk has not elapsed. He needs attention, not reassurance. The risk of the economic recession due to tourism can lead to uncontrolled behaviour. Recent examples should concern us, such as that of Mykonos. SYRIZA, sceptically monitors the conflicting and contradictory views of government officials and actors, particularly with regard to tourism management. The final state seems to be confused. Support for tourism, which is a key pillar of the economy, requires a serious approach and treatment, a public health shield and protection of citizens. To this end, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance proposes a series of 10 measures with priorities, including compliance with international health regulations for appropriate control at the entrance gates of the country, thermometer, sample laboratory checks, cruise control, tests on the public structures of the islands, hospitals, health centers, enhanced diagnostic screening of a preventive nature during the tourist season. It is certain that the critical period of pandemic will lead to useful conclusions. The question is that the pandemic should not be used as an alibi for further declining rights and poorening the majority of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Poulas for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation has created new public health data. With the seven projects included in the original 2018 agreement of approximately 250 million, the country's sanitary map is strengthened. Let us not forget that the region of the country is healthly downgraded, deprived of modern infrastructure and staffing capacity, compared to the urban centres that always receive the lion's share of interest from the state. So, once again, the time-consuming slogan "Greece is not only Athens" proves both time-consuming and appropriate even today. The first article of this Legislation concerns the ratification by 25 May 2020 of an amendment to the Donation Contract of 3 June 2019, which extends the subject-matter of the V project. In particular, since the initial agreement on the purchase of two aircraft and the maintenance of existing aircraft, we have passed following new assessments and assessments in replacing maintenance with the supply of two new helicopters and in increasing the budget for the implementation of the project from 25,000 to 26,400,000. Project V on the purchase of modern air means for conducting aerospace facilities by the EKAB is directly related to the sanitary shielding of the region, in particular our islands and rural remote areas, which are based on the rural doctor and health centres with all their imperfections and shortcomings. Without a doubt, the implementation of the project will enhance the sense of confidence of the citizens in the EAW, as it will improve the response speed and more effectively address the incidents that need to be transferred to the nearest public hospital. This sense of security is extremely important to the local residents, who, due to the absence of strong primary and/or secondary health care structures, are healthly dependent on hospitals in the nearest urban centers. This anguish is intensified at the time our country opens up tourism in the middle of a pandemic. Already, the first thirty imported cases have emerged and more is expected as far as we are concerned, the reopening of airports and the increase in international traffic are concerned. Thus, the insecurity and fear of the spread of COVID -19 is added to the agony of the citizens of the islands and of the outermost regions for the economic consequences of the pandemic and the insecurity and fear of the expansion of COVID -19 and the increase in aerospace needs for emergencies. In addition to the request for clarification on how and procedures for the supply of air means and equipment from the Ministry of Health and the EMCDDA respectively, no political party may question the usefulness and necessity of this donation. Clearly, the four new air means supplied by the Greek State are not sufficient to meet needs throughout the country. But it is a good start, an important upgrade with good future prospects, especially considering the situation it left on the country's health map in the decades of monuments, as a result of the abandonment of the maintenance of the existing instruments of the EMCDDA. We hope that there will be imitators of this great donation, who, in the context of social responsibility, will help to meet the health shortages of the National Health System for the benefit of the whole society. The second article seeks to prevent any exceptional needs of aerospace, particularly due to COVID-19, from establishing an exceptional procedure to meet the needs of air transport. This option is only provided for a period of three months, the end of which coincides with the end of the tourist season. Any extension of the procedure in question by means of a legislative provision shall not be excluded. In particular, it describes the possibility of finding air means suitable for aerospace donations of patients by private donations covering all costs from the Greek State, leasing with a service and remuneration from the list of vessels available to the ship partnership to be drawn up by the EAW, in accordance with the criteria of the directity of the provision and the lower supply or requisition of private airspace than those listed in the list, in the case of non-aeronautical means of transport being made available or adequacy by means of compensation for use and operator remuneration by the Greek State. Despite the exceptional and preventive character that this particular provision appears to have, in fact it is an attempt to communicate a "bump" at best. Because there is already a legislative provision, Article 61 of Law 4430/2016 which provides for the conclusion of an EAW contract with private air owners. So this provision is pointless. And why does it leave shadows of opacity? You do not provide anything in the explanatory statement to substantiate the necessity of your particular choice. So far no answers have been given to critical questions, such as: How many air means does the EAW have at its disposal at the moment? Where are they hosted? Which one are decommissioned and who are they working for? What is the cost of their maintenance? When were they last maintained? How many of them are capable of flying if they are maintained? What companies now have air means for aerospace to join the register to be drafted by the EAW? How much air means do they need on average to meet the needs of aerospace patients in our country? How long will the EAW be able to proceed with the drafting of the airspace register? You don't give a timeline. Maybe he stays on the bells and moves directly to the requisition? What is the procedure of the aerospace centres for coronary incidents - and not just - and after September? Is the Coronovirus going to retreat or follow a new wave of pandemic, as the World Health Organisation appreciates? What is the cost estimate for the implementation of this specific period provision? Have you done a proportionate study of how much it will cost the Greek State?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u103	The air force paper we haven't seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u104	What protection measures will be taken for carriers in case of an incident of COVID -19? You do not mention what kind of configuration these private air means will have and what increased measures they will take on the coronary incidents. You do not give the real picture of the condition of the aerospace. Whether there is objective weakness in their execution, because air means have not been maintained and cannot fly, we need to know that. If a full renewal of the EAW airspace is required, we should also know about it. If our islands in the middle of the summer cannot rely on aerospace, who has political responsibility, we must know that. What are the needs of the country in air means? Are we going to rely forever on the air means of the Armed Forces and the great cost that this entails or is it intended to cover gaps where certain companies appear, by way of orders, for the benefit of them? Does SYRIZA have to complete in this indirect way the aerospace privatisation plan that SYRIZA had attempted in 2016? I would like to point out that the guarantee of their safety of execution is the Hellenic Defence Industry, as is the maintenance of the air means of the EKA. Any other thoughts you have to stay theoretically. On the substance, the sloppiness and fragmentation of this regulation does not reassure the islanders and our critics, nor does it ensure the agricultural doctors and doctors of health centres who are under suffocating pressure from many aspects, for aerospaces that are ultimately proved to be pointless. This proves this the statistics: about 45% of patients intermittent are discharged the next day, and usually the initial diagnosis differs from the final one. A permanent solution is not provided for in this existing problem. What are the proposals of the Change Movement? What do we suggest? We propose designing the sanitary immunity of islands and remote areas, holistic dealing with the issue of aerospace, drawing up an annual programme for the supply of air crossings and maintenance of existing ones, rationalising the costs of aerospace and measures to avoid unnecessary transport, ex ante evaluation of incidents using means of modern technology, such as telemedicine, the creation of permanent infrastructure on our islands to deal with incidents, the establishment of floating medical facilities and fully equipped to deal with serious incidents until they are transferred to reception hospitals. Minister, we hope our proposals will be heard. You need to act immediately, because with the opening of tourism in our country in the next few months, enormous health needs will be created for our islands. Your reaction should be essential and far from impressive moves. For example, the recent communication show in Agathonisi with cameras and journalists is not moving in the right direction. This is what your Secretary-General has seen, and indeed he has sent two confidential letters to the President of the EGE, asking him to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, aerospace is a crucial link in the chain of economic armouring of the islands and the outermost regions. Every donation in the direction of strengthening the economic potential of the Greek state and protecting public health is welcome and nationally important. However, this does not relieve you of the lack of design, the taking of semimeters, the patches and the sloppyness. As much as the beards of the government bless the media, they cannot hide the truth. We are waiting for your planning, your reforms and your real plan for the country's governance. But above all we expect a public commitment that it will not overturn the existing aerospace legislation by EKAB with the responsibility of Air Force, for the sake of private interests with the door opened by SYRIZA in 2016. Considering our debt as an exception that has always supported the solutions that are moving in the right direction, and given that any donation to cover even part of the needs of public health and because of the critical period we are experiencing, we will vote in favour of the bill. We believe that we need to make constructive criticism and highlight imperfections and patches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u105	And we thank Mr. Poulas for the time economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u106	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u107	Here you go, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u108	Can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm sorry, I wouldn't have made the speech, but I realized this. For Article 2, which we shall be voting on today, the philology that exists is that there is a request from the Air Force that it cannot have any other means of flying to the EAW because of national issues. I've just been informed that this is not the case. So all your literature and arguments in relation to the second article do not apply. Please, until we talk, bring us the written request that exists. Because if it doesn't exist, you're double-exposed to what you're going to do. So I also want official information and I also call on the Ministry of National Defence to tell us whether there is such a thing, if there is indeed! Because if it doesn't exist, then what I said the other day is confirmed. I want you to file this paper. I'm asking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u111	It's understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, we are asking the same question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u113	The same question, then, Mr. Loverdos. The Minister heard it, he's here. I now invite the special speaker of the JRC, Mr Georgios Lambroulis, to be in Step for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Once again, once again, we denounce the practice of tabling at the last minute, with the practical start of the process of discussing this bill, amendments and let us say about the Ministry of Health. For the Ministry of Labour? In addition, as we have said, we have denounced the inadmissibility of the procedure with the amendments. And we will obviously have time, Mr President, in the course of the debate to say a few words about these amendments. So, with regard to the bill on the ratification of a contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation of the Greek State, the Ministry of Health, which is of course the sub-project 5 of course, namely the supply of aircraft and helicopters, our vote in the contract both on this individual and on the overall contract when we were discussing, during the previous period, our criticism of the responsibilities of all governments, which, through their policy, were slashing and cutting public health benefits, increasing the compensation and payments to health services, medicines, examinations and other contributions so that exactly this right of patients, our peoples, to necessary public health units can be presented as an offer - from whom? - by those who condemn the people to impoverishment. And we believe that such measures should be the sole responsibility of the State, fully financed by the state budget. Similarly, there should be staffing with permanent staff of the units, with permanent full-time and full-time staff, to ensure adequate and modern medical equipment and, of course, all of these should be part, if you wish to be part of the pan-Hellenicly-developed state health system, so that, in time for safety and absolutely free, all the preventive actions, diagnostic, therapeutic and urgent pre-medical care, to be provided to those in need, of course, without conditions and conditions. At the same time, any bids shall be made available by ancillary and complementary means. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Of course, there is the well-known argument, which we have heard in previous years, and now it is still in the public debate and also in the debates here in Parliament, that the state has no money or is invoking either the present government or the country's previous financial needs. However, the reality is that in the previous period, before the economic crisis, which Greece had increased growth rates within the European Union, the state and capital that this state serves with all those governments that have passed, were underfunding the public health system. They did not develop the necessary infrastructure, took measures to cut public benefits, so patients pay much more. And all this is of course accelerating today, and they are multiplying, because the growth of steam-driven groups is in complete contrast to the popular social needs and in particular health. And if something proves and which, in our view, our workers, our people, should think about, it is that this state, the capitalist state, never has any resources, does not have the money for the needs of the people, the people, or the phase of capitalist development or the phase of the capitalist economic crisis. That is because it is a clear political choice, all kinds of support for big business, either through tax exemptions, tax exemptions, tax evasions or through direct hot money. The aim is to ensure their high profitability in both phases and growth and crisis. Moreover, the money that the institution will make available - and we have said in committee - is, in fact, a very small part of the profits it generates, that is to say, in the ocean, profits resulting from the wild exploitation of workers, that is, from their unpaid working time that generates profits, not only in our country but also in other countries where the exploitation of the wealthy production resources of both our country and other countries is active. At the same time both the current government and the previous ones are making use of these agreements, in order to influence - if you like - a deeper ideological influence on the workers, on the one hand, seeking, on the other hand, to cultivate on the ground of the serious problems of the people's families the human face of the farm system and, on the other, to reconcile workers with the perception that they can also spare any crumbs, the better the profitability of entrepreneurs. In other words, the aim is to addict workers with the concept of social services and benefits not as a right but as a charity. And the more this anti-grass attack is intensified, the more the dramatic reduction in state and employers' health spending, welfare, medicine, education, all social benefits, and, of course, business action, as much as the charities or initiatives of health entrepreneurs, will appear. This is because donations are the alibi and the exchange of capitalists, to continue and increase the exploitation of workers and, at the same time, to provide people with public health as well. And is it not precisely in serving these designs and interests of business groups that public hospitals and health centres are increasingly strengthening their business and commercial characteristics? For example, here in Attica, the entire East Attica has not even a public hospital, despite some misfunctioning health centres, or for example northern Greece, Thessaloniki, has been without child hospitals for decades now and in times, as I said, development where our country was the second country in the European Union at growth rates with huge wealth. However, this wealth produced by our own people has not been channelled into satisfying these needs in health too. Also, for example, 4 billion euros a year, even in the years of the crisis - I stress it, 4 billion euros a year - go for naval spending, so that we too share in the pit where land, while for the health of the people, for the people's health, there is no more than one euro. So, at the same time that all these business groups consider the demands of workers to be a cause of war, as they shape working and living conditions in terms of the past decades, one century ago - that's where we're turning! - they appear at the same time as large benefactors in favour of the people, in fact having a minimum of profits from the work of workers and, of course, their aim is to integrate so-called social peace. And in this direction are governments and other urban parties dragged, all trying together to prevent the great danger. Who's that? The organisation of the struggle for workers who will claim precisely all this wealth and the means they produce it, but also overthrowing the political and economic power of the monopolies. So the only difference with regard to the whole contract or to the individual contracts we are discussing is that the SYRIZA Government started it and proceeded with it, while the New Democracy Government manages it with the amendments it makes to some of them at least so far. These two parties may be opposed to each other on the secondary and three-fold issues, but to the mainlands, in order to support and acquit precisely those exploiters of our people, there is a consensus and a common strategy. Finally, Madam President, I would like to raise the following point which we have raised in committee. In addition to the questions we have asked, if you would like, and in the light of the discussions in previous bills, under the original and initial contract, questions also the fact that the Foundation has the right to monitor the essential aspects of the works provided for in the contract, even with the provision of penalties, and even with the return of funds it has made or will make available. But the question also arises - I repeat, we told the committee yesterday but there was no answer - that during the debate on the technical specifications of aircraft, helicopters and so on. At the Board of Directors of the EMCDDA, a member of the EPC voted against, expressing an opinion on problematic specifications. We neither participate in the EKA boards nor have we been informed of what or were the reasons for reducing a member of the board of directors, obviously putting issues, as mentioned in the document you gave us, technical specifications. So here we would like an answer. In conclusion, Madam President, as we have said in committee, we will vote 'the present'. I repeat that I imagine that we will have the corresponding time or even a reasonable time, so that we can also be able to put it on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, my colleague. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mrs Athanasios for 15 minutes. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u116	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with a great deal of interest in this House, the amendment on the volcanic instruments of the donation agreement by the Joint Faculty of Stavros Niarchus Foundation, as well as the provisions of Article 2 of this bill concerning arrangements and provisions with a view to the COVID -19. And I wonder, Minister, and with me all the Greek people are wondering why this is a rush. We have just discussed this draft law with the committee yesterday, where questions and questions were raised. Are we going to get answers to this plenary or simply with the force of your parliamentary majority vote, will you proceed to vote on the law indifferent to the questions and issues raised by the opposition? But what am I asking? It will be what always happens, that is to say, short legitimisation procedures for the rapid and efficient assistance of the parliamentary majority in projects invoked by the common good. But let us see what we have to vote on today, by reminding you, Minister, what we have discussed in committee and what questions we have asked about which we have not received any response, as we will probably not get now, as I predict. The Greek state should plan and implement, but much more and before that, anticipate the needs of society and the National Health System and accordingly prepare and act. It is not possible for years and years to exaggerate the Greek and Greeks, and to expect a private person to meet with the generosity of the basic needs of the people and society. Where are all these billions finally being collected from the people through state taxation and where do all this money finally go from the various public partnerships with the private sector that you warmly support, but where is the money from the provocative concessions of public property and national companies and structures, such as OSE and airports? What are we talking about, and what is the value of growth, if the good economic results never reach in the pocket of each Greek, wherever he is, such as in Thrace, Mani, Crete, Rhodes, in the villages of Epirus and thessaloniki, and everywhere? But what am I asking? The money goes to the memorials, to our lenders and, of course, to the banks, and the attack goes well. However, we have said this and will continue to say it as a Greek Solution, until you decide to do it nationally and for the benefit of the Greek society and not primarily for the benefit of your friendly investors and not only. I wonder, are all these benefactors going to give something to the defense at one time? However, I now come on today's agenda. This draft law comes to supplement, as we have said, after amendment of the changes made to the initial contract of the already validated donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. And I have said that as a doctor I agree with the reinforcement of equipment structures and the specialization of staff. The supply of air means of aerospace is a very serious step, for a timely treatment of acids and heavy incidents, especially from island Greece where conditions are difficult and sometimes forbidden. And I speak from experience, since I served twenty-five years in Lemnos. But, Minister, you will have to do other things about island Greece and the remote regions. You need to recruit with first line specialties, normal and motivated. We must now stop the position of doctors of the Aristotle Greece and the islands as a third-class place and the medical service there as a necessary evil. You must create safety conditions. Have you anticipated the direct staffing of newly inaugurated hospitals, such as Karpathos, but also of other islands that are not staffed? Have you anticipated full staffing of health centers? Have you decided that the Coronovirus should be the occasion to make sectoral and improve bad texts, or will you choose the easy way, but which has incalculable costs in other areas, such as transporting the possible cases with expensive aerospaces to the hospitals of the ESS, risking this time the collapse of the health system that we avoided by our incarceration? Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the original contract and its amendment we are debating, I say that there is no mention of why two new helicopters are chosen instead of the maintenance of existing helicopters, as originally decided. The Greek State speaks of an assessment of the conditions and you have not told us what the conditions were, when the maintenance of equipment, i.e. helicopters, was initially discussed, and what the conditions have now been decided on to supply new helicopters and their self-evident maintenance. I understand that the supply of two new air means can only be a good news. But why this change? And what about the existing ones? Since we were supposed to keep them, that means they can be maintained. And I ask, who will keep them and how much will it cost? Will the Air Force do this, or will they also take it into private, and in what procedures? And after they will join the fleet and the two new helicopters, is it planned to recruit and staff these new services? Is their operation guaranteed financially? It goes without saying that existing helicopters should also be operated and maintained and new helicopters incorporated into the National Health System and be operational and efficient. And let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the contract clearly states that the Greek State is obliged to maintain and operate the donations of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation. However, how will all these maintenance contracts referred to in Article 2 of the Convention become? Or did they already have urgent procedures? Is there a competition or will it be chosen for reasons of exceptional circumstances of a particular contractor, private in your main practice, for a five-year period? And then what about it? Article 3 of the Convention states that any overrun of the budget will be covered by the Greek State. We draw your attention to this point in the strict and modern monitoring of the implementation of the project and of the budget, in order to avoid unnecessary and unjustified increase in revenue. Besides, we're talking about the Greek state and its contractors. But now, as stated in the preamble to the Convention, the approval and technical specifications of the air-aided means of donation, i.e. the two planes for the transport of seriously ill patients, are derived from the approval decision No 17/3-6-2019 by the EKA. However, the decision of the EMCDDA was taken by a majority after a member of the EMCDDA's Board of Directors objected to the procurement with the existing specifications. We called on you in committee, Minister, to look for the reasons for this differentiation, but not only were you interested in responding to us, but you have tried to pass this draft law on record time. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, such donations do not become either every day or easily. Many factors need to be advocated in deciding and carrying out, but also in doing so. We need to know, what exactly are the reasons why the decision of the EPC to accept the donation is not unanimous. For Article 2 of the draft law on the aerospace treatment of patients specifically with COVID -19, what can I say? You are talking about sponsorships for the disposal of air means with costs and charges and fees, you are talking about providing a service with compensation for use or remuneration, and you are talking about a requisition. How will they be hierarchized, though? If they don't give us a gift, do we pay them, and if they don't hire them, we check them? Minister, what exactly do you keep in mind and your plans to do? What private airplanes are you talking about? Is there a list of these? Are you talking about helicopters and aircraft from shipowners and industrialists, about helicopters and aircraft from insurance companies, or about Aegean helicopters and aircraft that ask for money and control don't give and now he wants to take money through another state function? Or do you have any German or Italian in mind? As we speak of prevention and treatment, ladies and gentlemen, I would remind everyone that in the summer of all other things the forests and property of the Greeks are at risk from fires. Are we ready for this? Are the means of flight in this case maintained and sufficient? Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about public health and about COVID -19 basically. Why waste time on rental and donation contracts? Why should we go into more affordable procedures? So, on the one hand we're all chasing with fines and local and national lockdowns, and on the other, we're doing business with leases and price and service supply? There are already new cases of COVID -19 and they still haven't opened the borders. You already see - because we as Greek Solution have said so from the very beginning - that neither can tourism perform, as you think. There are business issues and behaviour in the world. So you're going to tell the client at 10:00 a.m. when he eats at a restaurant and drinks his wine,'state distance' in the narrow streets of the islands of Cyclades, but also in all our islands and in the holiday places? And what about the young people in the bars? Foreigners are coming too. Did you see what happened in the Skunk yesterday, Minister? The poachers broke the quarantine, and the police collected them from shops and streets. Today, in Katechaki, tails were expected. In urban conspiracy transport. How will the disease be controlled in the remote regions and our islands and with the illegal immigrants flooding the country, who move freely and unaccompaniedly, while the Greeks are being persecuted, restricted, fined and exploited financially, despite their apparent and law-abiding economic catastrophe? Do you know that, Minister, - let the other ministers know - that banks are calling borrowers and asking them to suspend their instalments until 30 September 2020, to capitalise the instalments and all the charges that they legally or illegally impose on citizens? Think of where we arrived, the tax office - although greedy in our view - should make unselfish suspension of instalments and with a 25% discount on those who pay in time and the banks be more hunters than ever. "Who rules this place," someone once said? To return to the COVID -19 and any incidents that will occur in the coming months on the islands primarily, Mr Minister, if the check is lost, not two, not twelve, but even a hundred and two helicopters are not enough. And where are you taking them? The hospitals in mainland Greece, which barely serve the population there? The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is not the transfer of patients to central hospitals. The solution is that you can hire a ship or two or what you need, for example, for the Dodecanese, for the islands of the Eastern Aegean, for the Cyclades, which will be converted into a floating hospital and which will accept the incidents, having the appropriate equipment and the ITH. Minister, have you heard what German Foreign Minister Hajko Maas said yesterday about German citizens' holiday abroad? He stated that Germany would not repatriate German citizens if they were patients with COVID -19. Two hundred thousand Germans were repatriated for the first five weeks of the pandemic, but that won't happen again, he said. He won't send planes again, but their embassies will help in case of need. Funny and irrational statement. Do you understand what that means? Firstly, it would be unreasonable for those who were to come or wait for them to come, so from that reason tourism and the moor. Secondly, if they come and get sick in Greece. What are we gonna do to them? Those with mild symptoms will leave them to the hotel in quarantine by shutting them down? Are we going to put them in our hospitals? Minister, we expect answers to our questions and our concerns, which are of the entire Greek people. Gentlemen of the Government, help all the citizens who are in real need, but you are essentially and catalysts of Greek and Greek and finally protect our country. Stand by her people. You rely on him, and you come from him, this is our country and nation, which of course precedes the establishment of the new Greek state. Think of what we're telling you, Minister. Things are very serious. Before you're a paractor, you speak three times, the Greek Solution was confirmed. The New Democracy courier has been opened. Streams, cut-off islands with low influence of EEZ, and now Turkey is using the government's criminal mistake to make its own propaganda. We warned and continue to warn them not to commit the same crime in Kastelorizo. They'll have us all across. As for the bill, the Greek Solution is voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, my colleague. The floor is now given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera24 Mr. Fotini Bakakadamma for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of a specific donation contract between Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State, a project concerning patient aerospace. Theoretically, no one could disagree with the individual works of the contracts with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, since with their completion the services provided to our fellow citizens would greatly improve. For example, it is worth recalling that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has undertaken the design and construction of the General Hospital of Komotini, the Hospital of Thessaloniki Children's Hospital, the financing of the supply of medical equipment and the implementation of educational programs of the EMCDDA and the Center of Nursing Disciplinary Education, the purchase of equipment for units of "Evangelism", the creation of the Sparta Hospital and much more. With regard to the air transport of patients, which is the subject of today's debate, the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation undertakes to buy two new aircraft and two new helicopters. Ladies and gentlemen, our firm reaction to it, but also to other similar conventions, stems from the fact that we believe that the state should not grant our charitable fellow human beings, to individuals, its obligations - which are also constitutionally established - such as the right to health and the obligation of the state to ensure that it provides the good of health and care for the citizens. At the same time, our concern is that it is gradually opening up the way for private individuals to take a stronger role in the field of health by privatising, through PPP actions and programmes, hospitals and health structures. Ladies and gentlemen, if something has taught us that the battle with the coronary pandemic is the importance of our national health system, a system that has succeeded, despite the shortcomings caused by the ten years of crisis, in standing up and with the cooperation of all the parties to the counterpopulation, but also, above all, the compliance of all of us with the experts' instructions, we have managed to win the first-stage health bet. A positive result is that we have managed to have a limited number of cases and victims, compared with other countries, which have about the same population as us. That is why the medical and nursing staff of the country, as well as all workers in health structures - managers, guards, cleanliness staff and everyone else - must have our practical support. We need to get the on-calls, take direct permanent and non-adjudicial staff, test all workers, but also medical and nursing school students, who have been doing their clinic in hospitals and are slowly restraining all wage cuts over recent years. It is shameful for a modern state of the 20th century to applaud doctors and nurses and at the same time to have them live on hunger wages. During the first phase of the pandemic, many private donations to masks, gloves, antiseptics and other personal protective equipment helped hospital staff to do their duty, as many structures did not have sufficient supplies. If the state had succeeded, ladies and gentlemen, to give the necessary means to doctors, nurses and all the employees of each branch in the hospitals in the country, we would not need private individuals. After the pandemic, however, we still become many complaints daily. Indicative examples: Medical Larissa, with students being forced to buy personal protection alone, so that they can do their clinical practice, the students of nursing at the Kapodistrian University of Athens, who are forced - those who practice at the "Hippoktraktraktraktraktrakti" - can sign a responsible statement that if they are ill they will not seek responsibility from the hospital, but also pay from their pocket the means of protection - gloves and masks - so that they can do their practice. I will not go into the shortcomings of our country's hospitals and health centres today, because there are too many of them: state of Nice, hospital "Evangelism", hospital of Karpathos, and Leros, Kos, Kefalonia, Kalymnos, many health centers on islands, which are tourist destinations and operate with a rural doctor or without a doctor. Minister, we will be here tomorrow to discuss the timely question that SYRIZA has asked about the ESS and the management of the pandemic, in order to raise all these individual issues. I'm coming to today's bill. Its object is the aerospace of patients. Although it seems to remain in the hands of the EMCDDA, from many sources we have seen fear that the ground is coming to advance, so that this field can be fully privatised. After all, there is nothing left that you have not privatised - water - why not aerospace? It is worth noting that the coordination of the process of aerospace patients and medical support have always been exclusively to the EAW, with the FMC operating from our Armed Forces, our Air Forces. None of the airborne instruments - as we have said in committee - available to the Air Force today is sanitaryly shaped, as it costs too much. It remains to be seen whether, at the end of the day, the management of the Greek or foreign airline will remain in the EKA and the Hellenic Air Force. Also, in the fixed orders of the Air Force, the aerospace of patients is the third priority as regards its work. Unfortunately, the four Memorandums, as well as the financial adjustment that they have brought about, have added to all the other problems that have been experienced by the ESS, the deterioration of the situation of airborne instruments and further problems in repairing faults due to incomplete resources, factors which have sometimes reduced reliability and due to delays. In an effort to improve the situation, the previous government introduced constant revenues for the EAFRD to 0.8% of the EEA budget, which made it possible to repay a large proportion of the debts to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which had exceeded EUR 100 million. Thus, it was possible to repair some damage to the airplanes. Today the EAW has four positions, in addition to Elefsina's central base. Unfortunately, however, despite the fact that our doctors and nurses, flying rescuers and flying doctors are doing their work selfishly, not even a minute to think about physical fatigue, thus trying to improve the daily life of our islanders, but also of visitors, this is not enough. The government's intention to involve private individuals in aerospace patients has caused reactions from many employees in the EAW. We also consider it unacceptable to use non-legal means for aerospace, especially during this period, especially when we may have cases of COVID 19 on islands and they should be managed by rescuers, who will have the necessary familiarity and the necessary professionalism. We also consider that discarded, former public aircraft that currently own private persons, should attempt to enter from the window into the fillet of the EKA aerospaces. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said at the committee meeting, we will vote'residents' in principle, as we recognise that this work is coming to meet sufficient needs, which it is impossible and fails to meet, but we cannot consent to the conversion of the state into a voyage for private charity in order for people to be able to care for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u120	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u121	Is there a problem, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u122	For thirty seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u123	Tell me why. Is it personal? Is that a point of order? What exactly is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u124	It's a point of order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u125	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u126	Madam President, because the head of the Ministry of Health has also come to the Chamber, and because we are now entering the list of speakers, I would like to say this: SYRIZA and the KINAAL have submitted the request that the Ministry of Health should give us the written request from OHIM to the EKA or the Ministry, where it says that it is unable to cover the air-conditions. It has not been given to us while we are entering the process of speakers. Please the Ministry, if it doesn't have it, to bring it in and testify to the Minutes, to have it in our hands, to see the written request.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u127	You're a little hasty, Mr. Comrade. We would not be on the list of speakers immediately because the Minister has asked for the floor for two minutes. Mr Minister, you have the floor to put yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, should Mr Brutsi not first present his amendment to make it acceptable? Isn't that right? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u129	I've been informed you guys want to talk. That is why I give you the floor. If Mr. Brutsis wants to be placed, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u130	Let Mr Brutsis defend his amendment, so that I can do it later on or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to clarify the amendment which I tabled to the relevant bill. On this occasion, I would like to say to you and repeat something that the government has been fighting in one particular direction since the beginning: in the crisis we are experiencing, there is nothing else in our government's policy, rather than the maintenance of jobs. All initiatives, all legislative actions, which we have developed throughout this period, are in front of this possibility of the deep crisis brought by the pandemic, in order to restrain the labour market and not to have a wave of redundancies. Today, the results of ELSTAT were announced for March and I would describe as optimistic that so far, despite the fact that March was the first month, which entered the first time of the crisis, unemployment continued to fall at a dynamic trend. In March 2020, according to ELSTAT, unemployment was closed to 14.4%, while last month, in March 2019, it was 18.1%. We had a reduction of less than 3.7% in unemployment. Only as a positive and optimistic message so far can one take it. At the same time, because the data from the Ministry of Labour were presented today as regards wage earners and the ERGANS figures for the month of May, too, and here I would call the message as optimistic, because we had a positive balance plus thirty-two thousand ninety-five and seventy-five jobs. In addition, at the same time, full-time for May, according to the data of the "ERGANI", reached 55.46%, while in May 2019, full-time was 49.84%. We don't triumph. These results, however, show that the policies we have developed so far for the labour market, support for businesses, workers, show that they are effective. So I would also like to link this amendment, which today's amendment is coming to further improve this new framework of support for work, the so-called 'Co-work', which we have legislated a few days ago. I would remind you that it is a new employment support framework whereby if and if the employer decides to make a rotational environment, then the state comes and supports the employee's income by 50% and by 60% in the rest of the likely loss of the employee's wages and so we reach a point, the employee's wages cannot be made redundant from 83.5% to 100%, as no wage can fall below the minimum wage. The businessman, on the other hand, is obliged not to change the contract of employment. This is all horizontally true for our national economy, for all businesses, which have a loss of 20% or more, compared to the previous three years. What does that mean? It means that we maintain full-time jobs, we support and strengthen the income of the worker, compared to the concept of creating an environment with unemployment benefits before and we come to support jobs at this critical moment, as any businessman enters the environment and adopts this tool, called 'Co-work', cannot fire anyone. So we are coming today, Madam President, and we are improving this mechanism, the mechanism of strengthening employment. What are we doing? In the section, which deals with the operator's insurance contributions, which was obliged until the amendment to pay all the insurance contributions to the worker's nominal initial salary, we come, recognising that we want to activate and make greater use of this 'Cooperative' mechanism, and we pay as a state budget 60% of the employers' contributions for the period when the worker is not employed. We are therefore making a move, under which we support the mechanism, we support entrepreneurship. We create incentives so that the 'Co-work' will work more, become more business and, at the same time, keep jobs. That is the amendment we are bringing forward. Reduction of employers' contributions to enterprises under the "Co-work" programme by reducing the burden and cost of their burdens so that they adopt it as a mechanism and now, through this mechanism, the labour market more profoundly in the maintenance of jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too, Minister. The Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u134	Madam President, I accept the following ministerial amendments: the amendment with general number 359 and special 62, and the amendment with a general number of 360 and a special number 63, as well as the two legislative improvements tabled in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u135	They are submitted and will be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u136	I would like to say to colleagues that we will say a lot tomorrow. We will have a lot of time to talk about health, and I am very pleased that SYRIZA's colleagues have raised this topical question. For the questions of colleagues, I have to say that the issues of the Air Force and the issues of the air carriers, especially at these times, were, are, are and will always be, for those responsible political secrets and not announced anywhere. I think that is what you believe, and you have the same sense of responsibility, and you will not be in the process to ask for these kinds of documents in this Air Force Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Francis from the Change Movement has the floor, as the first speaker, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for their understanding and courtesy to allow me to speak first. Ladies and gentlemen, the timing at which we are in makes society and the economy vulnerable. We've been called upon to deal with an emergency situation. We continue to be in uncharted waters and we all need responsible and collective action, temperament and self-discipline, consensual decisions. The health crisis has come to confirm the value of the public health system. At the same time, it highlighted its shortcomings, as they were shaped after the multiannual economic crisis, but also the need to strengthen it. It has updated the need for organised primary health care aimed at informing citizens, preventing, dealing with emergency situations and treatment. Unfortunately, so far we have legislated and stressed the importance of primary health care, but the result is very little. The economic difficulty of recent years has been an analogous one, but the current European financial assistance allows us to turn the crisis into an opportunity. So there's no excuse. Today's bill concerns the implementation of the fifth of the seven projects of the total donation of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation to the Greek State, entitled "Health Initiative". This project concerns the financing of the supply of two new aircraft and two new helicopters. The Stavros Niarchos Foundation supports our country over time in many areas. In health, it focuses on the creation of infrastructure, the provision of logistical equipment and the upgrading of health services. During the Krone crisis, there have been many and remarkable private support initiatives and the country has received significant help so that it can respond to the unprecedented situation that we have experienced and which seems to have not yet reached its end. So more than welcome are donations to the difficult times we live. The country needs people and legal persons who can offer for the common good. On the occasion of the debate on the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, I would like to remind you that the Change Movement proposed the creation of a permanent mechanism for the use of donations under the control of the Parliament, as well as the introduction of incentives. The aim is transparency and confidence in public-private partnerships and transactions and attracting donations on a stable basis. The specific donation of aircraft and helicopters gives a large refreshment injection to the EMCDDA and contributes to the better preparedness of the public health system, especially in the event of a COVID-19 case. The EAW, as we all know, is working with the Air Force for the aerospace of patients. Recently, the EAW announced that it would not have the aircraft of the Air Force for aerospace. The economic crisis and the inertia of the previous government have done so. The gap created in aerospace spaces between now and 30 September 2020 comes to cover Article 2 of this draft law allowing private aircraft to be used in the event of health emergencies. But what happens after 30-9-2020? How do we cover up to the receipt of the donation aircraft? Do you have anything else on your mind, Minister? We hope that this exceptional arrangement, dictated by the current reality, will not become permanent. In addition, it would be advisable to redesign and strengthen the entire aerospace system. A strengthened regional health system in structures, health personnel and equipment would limit the need for aerospace. So is the use of telemedicine. The wording of Article 2 is rough and incomplete, it raises questions and reservations. As I have already said, the status of aerospace from 30 September onwards is not specified until the donation aircraft are received. Significant parameters such as how to cover all kinds of costs of the airway, how to assess the appropriateness of the air means, how to compensate the use of voluntarily granted or accelerated aircraft and airborne means, the amounts of compensation for the use and remuneration of services are referred to CSTs, which will be issued within one month of the entry into force of the draft law. Most of these could and should, Minister, be mentioned in this bill. In conclusion, I would like to say that we welcome all donations to the National Health System, but that does not mean that the state does not have to assume its essential and active role in shielding it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u139	And I, Mr. Colleague, thank you for keeping your time. Mr Liupis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the total offer of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which started in 2018, is a great support for public health. Indeed, the timing could not be better, given the increased needs of the ERC due to the treatment of the COVID pandemic -19. The amending contract we are discussing today provides that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation will, through donation, provide the Greek public with two new helicopters and two new planes, along with their equipment for the EKEB. The initial contract with the institution provided, not the purchase, but the repair of the two already existing helicopters. The reaction of Officer Opposition to this amendment to the convention doesn't seem reasonable to me. Obviously, it is a better choice to buy two new helicopters instead of the repair of two old helicopters. Since the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation accepted this change, it would be against the Greek state and the EKAV not to prefer the new helicopters. The geographical specificity of our country, with several difficult and mountainous regions and dozens - about two hundred and seven - inhabited islands, creates further difficulties in dealing with emergency and emergency health. The donation, which we are discussing today, is EUR 26.4 million and includes the performance of the health ministry's possession of these four airplanes, specially designed for the transport of heavy patients to hospitals, and the transport of doctors to heavy patients. The courses will take place with the cooperation of the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Of course, the Greek State commits itself to the maintenance of aircraft and the proper training of its personnel. The supply of the medical equipment to be placed in the helicopters and the aeroplanes will be carried out under the responsibility of the EMCDDA. This is a very important donation to the National Health System, which contributes to the partial, even release of, the aircraft of the Air Force, which are used for these patient periods. The second article of today's bill is the definition of welfare and prevention to be demonstrated by the Greek State in matters of public health. The need for this provision emerged in order to cover any exceptional incidents of aerospace from island areas in the summer and with a view to the development of the health threat by COVID -19. It is foreseen that by 30 September 2020 the National Health System will have additional cross-border solutions in case the existing EAW instruments are not sufficient. In particular, the first option is to use private aircraft donations, appropriately designed for the transport of patients. At the same time, the EAW will keep a list of all air means that can carry out cross-border operations. If necessary, it shall be possible to rent an aircraft for the transport of patients with compensation for use or remuneration. In fact, for the selection of more air means will be leased each time the most readily available and the best offer. In the event that there are even more increased needs, there is also the possibility of a private aircraft being ordered from the relevant list. Of course, compensation will be paid for the use of the aircraft and the operator's remuneration will be covered. All these possibilities are valid for a limited period of time and do not constitute permanent aerospace solutions using private aircraft. What is more reasonable and prudent, by a government that covers all the health potential of the population and tourists, in a country that reopens its borders and is preparing to welcome tourists with a look at the much-needed stimulus of the national economy? It would have been less absurd not to anticipate all these necessary scenarios. In the past period, government policy has shown in the best way that prevention taken immediately and in time saved lives, which would have been unjustly lost. In this way, Greece is on the list of countries that have been best faced with pandemic. Today's bill moves in exactly the same direction and ensures that citizens and tourists feel and are effectively safe throughout the summer season. EAFRD aerospace facilities shall be strengthened and a timely transport of patients from the islands shall be ensured throughout the summer. Greece takes all the appropriate measures to be a hospitable country, but most importantly, a safe country for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Gregoriadis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously a good thing that some funds appear, even in the form of a donation, in the much-needed area of our health. However, what one needs to note at the same time is that it is extremely negative, is the charity that has been able to accept or worse - and seek our state, even in such a fundamental constitutional obligation as the health of our citizens. As you know better than I, most of you, Article 21 of our Constitution clearly stipulates that the state takes care of the security of citizens. He has that obligation. On the one hand, the memorials and the indifference - I like that word - means vaporation, I have not heard it before, I have recently found it, and I am happy to use it - the exhaustion of public revenues that have occurred in recent years and have brought it up to date, on the other hand, to the ideology of coexistence, of the Government of New Democracy, namely, the well-known ideology of the smallest possible state, even if that means that ultimately public health expenditure with such a small state is being borne out - I fear in full - or in part from now the charity of individuals. I do not want to talk worse about how immoral it is that charity or charity should take on our health if you prefer. I do not want to say - but I will say, because I cannot stand - that, in my opinion, no human beings, no organization, no one, but no one has the moral right to help someone else, because something suspicious happens to have been in this position, to be able to help someone else. I mean, Mr. Niarchus, for some reason he has these billions of which he can donate a few million. As he said very clearly - and I fully agree - I think the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece is from the goodwill of his profits from the working class, who works in him. It is, in fact, the return of a very small part - he said in fact - from his profits. We should, of course, not forget to observe - because I said about the ideology of coexistence - that this convention first came into the SYRIZA government, it is a very different ideology, but when you bring a memorandum, you put water on your wine. You know, first step, then the rest comes. You're doin' a bitch. The state has therefore found itself in the absolute need to require private sector donations to keep a delusion, according to everyone and with the Secretary-General himself and the Minister of Health, public health. We may have been forced as a state to take measures, but all the previous speakers have said - and very well, Mrs Bakadima from our party - that the measures we have taken were not just inadequate, but, you would say, they were at the limit of being slightly comedy. I'm sorry to say this, but when you don't, all of you - and you from New Democracy and you from SYRIZA and you from KINAL - have been saying that for years, six thousand doctors have been in need of the system. You're also saying that there's a need for so many other nurses. However, when after the coronary, which we saw in Greece - something small - but we saw what he did in Europe - something very big - we saw what he did in Italy, when, after that terrifying threat, in front of us in September, we become Italy - I beating wood not to happen, but there is the threat - you finally managed to hire about two thousand people or something more, of whom under six hundred are doctors and of whom almost anyone with a permanent intake, it is obvious that it was not what had to be done. Well, I was saying before that nightmareing is the memorial reality of a country like Greece, which, in conflict with its own Constitution, cannot take care of its own resources for the health of its citizens and is dependent on the charity of individuals. That is why we are voting 'at present' instead of 'yes'. If there were no such moral theme and this mockery of our people, namely that Stavros Niarchos is supposed to be our benefactor, we would probably vote 'yes'. It makes no sense, therefore, to go into the details of the agreement, because we do not question the fact that the needs that are coming to meet are real needs, Mr Contozamanis. We would point out that the needs that are coming to meet are real, which illustrates the situation in which the country has come and the result of very specific political choices, which have been made in our last decade, that is, the memorandum policies. Now you will allow me to know why we are talking - so that you do not think that I am someone who speaks and says things against national benefactors for no reason - to make a very brief reference to benefactors, benefactors in general, but above all to our national benefactors. I would like to refer a little to the example of Andreas Congregation. He was born in Istanbul in 1828 this great national benefactor. He first worked in commerce, then expanding his activity in the banking sector, where after 1860, he was already one of the big banks of the Ottoman Empire and the main shareholder of the Great Bank of Constantinople. Its method, ladies and gentlemen, was absolutely classic, I would say pre-capitalist capitalist. His time was preceded by the Congregator. So his method was adapted to the budgets of the Ottoman Empire. What did he do? He was buying the taxes in a region, taking a high interest rate for the time, 20% a year, and in fact, he did not give money, but goods overpriced by 40% and 50%. He still carved the currency difference from the province of Constantinople, counting advances on notes to an hundred and fifty pounds a pound and collecting gold pounds, then to a hundred pounds a pound. This huge national benefactor, the Congregator, describes the way - he himself, in his writings - bribery of Sultan officials, but mainly the lending to the government, for example in the Crimean War, who, in almost the same way, brought him, he said, "happy profits". Even more robbery and profitable were the loans to Egypt, and finally, the buying of Turkish bonds on the London Stock Exchange throughout the 1860s and then. It should be noted that other major national benefactors, such as Vallianos, Zariphes, Koronios, have participated in these robberies of the Congregation - nothing to do with the coronary, just looks like the name! - and Ioannides. The Congregator was really a very wealthy capitalist and a good man. She's had a life, lived her as she wanted. In 1872, he founded the General Credit Bank and in 1881 the Bank of Epirussaly in Greece. The Bank of Continentality, do you know what he was managing? He managed the abandoned land at that time from Ottoman land ownership, as the Ottoman Empire, which existed in Thessaly, retreated. In this way, as he again admits, he has, like his final buyers - from him - the second buyers, as well as all national benefactors, such as Averof, painter, Zappas and others. Location - and I note here, I must note - which should normally belong immediately after the annexation of Thessaly - where else? - in the Greek public, and not by Mr. Syngoros, to go to Mr. Averov, to Mr. Painteros and to Mr. Zapas. This robbery of the Ottoman and Greek public was almost invisible. Who knew about public finances then? Nobody. The Congressman, however, did not manage to remain obsolete to his robbery. He became known as a speculator, as you all know, from Laureate. This story began when Serpier expanded in addition to the exploitation of the mines and the ancient slags, the catalysts of Lavrio, which they said because of the incomplete ancient processing had left them with huge amounts of silver. The 'prostates' then intervened in the fight between the government and the Serbs - something like the present Commission, I imagine - in favour of the Serpier, of course. And finally, how was the deadlock solved? It was solved by the market - that was what capitalism did and today just - the covered market of the company "SERPERH" by the Congregator. Serpier remained a mere shareholder. So the businessman was Greek and the national friendlyness and the government was saved. As Marquezine notes in his story, however, Marquezin is not a communist, but he was an extremely valuable man - the original Serpier's company won the maximum, since he had put little capital. And this, which he gave to the new company Syngrou - Serpieris was Greek, national, public, that is to say everyone who listens to us, wealth. With the noise, however, the simple world thought that the catacombs did have treasure. And they ran, they rushed to buy the shares of the new company, not only wealthy, but also workers, servants, drunkards, small mamazators. And since the first day the shares that entered into the negotiation for 200 drachmas have reached 310 drachmas in a few hours, which is a shocking rise. Serpier had told the Congregator before he bought the company: "There is no treasure but a medal in Lavrio". But politicians, all of us have extinguished the world's imagination of their own, our interests. Like modern Albanian pyramids. That's where they almost lynched them. Not us yet. That was the Congregator. To have a full picture we should know that also the Municipal Theatre referred to as supposedly beneficialness was a simple, simple trade transaction, act. He contributed to the completion of 600,000 drachmas - a huge amount for 1886 - but in exchange for his exploitation for twenty-five years. Does anything remind you of "Eleftherios Venizelos" and the German company? In 1898, he seemed to have a problem with the Municipal Theatre. So he handed over his management to the public, keeping the exploitation of offices and shops, that is, the capitalist fillet. This is because I have now begun to be irritated with the benefactors that the National Bank gives them 4 billion and put 700 million to do their jobs in Greek. And the Minister of Development comes and increases them overnight with an amendment to an entirely irrelevant bill of construction, since they have made their offer. I have begun to be irritated with all those who are the benefactors of our national money. And I'm not a populist. I say "mys" and I mean the ordinary people out. I'll be right over. Just before I leave, I am never restrained by the temptation - you know, Mr. Kontozamani, and you too, if you happen to be here while I speak - to say what is going on with 'ERAKLI'. And I'm saying that, because right now, restaurants, hoteliers are getting too big. In other words, it is up to them to question their survival. We know well that in a large percentage of them - it may touch 40% - there will be no survival. They'll end as businessmen. So to these people, this government can't afford to support them. At least, he doesn't find what they consider reasonable to support. Because what you've given them, they're complaining they're crumbs. This government can't afford to support the workers in them. This government can't afford to support restaurants. It does not find money to support, that is to say, to give EUR 500 to everyone - because many protest that they are not seen and that they are outside the protection umbrella - to restaurants, waitresses, barmens, to my fellow actors, to choreographers, directors, directors, taxis. All of them can't afford it. But does this government, which does not find pennies for all of them, find 12 billion to give the parasitic oligars - the foreigners, I mean - who have the predators, who have taken red loans with the incredible HERAKLIS project, which has already been bankrupt in Italy? Let us remind you, as Mera25, that you have been able today and tomorrow and Monday to bring an act of legislation which will legally end both for Greek law and for the world and for the European Community and for all our parasitic bosses. To end self-sufficient, no problem, no urination and no one's after you. Why don't you do it? You can't feed anyone. You cannot save anyone from poverty and poverty. But can you disperse 12.5 billion, which you do not have and you will borrow for the predator funds? It's reasonable and I'll say it again: Or some of you are syndicates or your beneficiaries hold hand-wrapped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. In advance, I ask you a little for your tolerance, because amendments have also been made. We have to say a word about them too. I'm starting fast. The "Norarch" donation was concluded by us as a political leadership of the Ministry of Health, forming part of a comprehensive framework for upgrading the national health system and the public sector on the basis of what we had already done in the public health system after the disaster we received. What you've been doing consciously for a year is mocking her, squeezing her, reducing her, changing her. I'm saying it in particular. You cut the cycloterones, making it thanks to the two companies, the one that there is and the other that was prepared to come, so that the Agency could buy their radiopharmaceuticals for the pet scan and not be autonomous the public health system, as we planned. You have used the two new hospitals to change their legal status as a legal person under private law, to further implement the PPP plan. You're broken by the coroner. Now that your neoliberals have gone through the big boor and poorness, cooperation and partnerships between the public and private sectors have again begun. Today, with this particular contract we will say enough, you are trying to pave the way for the privatisation of aerospace. I also told the committee and said it again and now: we agreed that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation would buy two planes and repair the old helicopters we had. In fact, we were getting offers. We asked the company "LEONARDO" and offered us an offer of 7,200,000 to repair them. We asked the EAW - it was a political decision, and it was accepted by Stavros Niarchos, and it says: 'I repair the two and prescribe them for five years with all the circular controls that it wants with 4.100,000 euros'. And we agreed on that. You're saying the best thing is to get a new one. But you had a plan with the EAB. And that's part of it. Take the first ones to offer "LEONARDO" with the 7,200,000 and the Greek Air Industry offer with 4,100,000. [[At this point the Member, Mr Paul Paulakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You're saying you get two new ones with 5,000. We had an offer of 5,700,000 new ones. What have you done? You've taken out the medical equipment, which was included. He says so, he says. If you changed it, it's fine. You've taken out the medical equipment. He needs to be filled in by the EAW. If you do it like that, why don't you do it all? You also change service times, that is, this term that says that when during the three hundred hours or eighteen months there is damage, we do not pay anything. You're changing that. Or the service circles. But that's not the basic thing. You could well repair both helicopters with ODA, regardless of the Nigorian donation. You've got money. Unfortunately, we left you a lot of dowrys that you are dismantling with the initiative in a block of Furthiotis and the ima.gr. Petsas and Dimitriadis lived the glory of Abrahamopoulos and Georgiadis. You also gave us the list to see who unpacked them without writing the money, because he's ashamed to say it. We in the EKA did a lot of things. We strengthened it with three hundred and forty permanent staff. You haven't moved on to the notice we planned last year's PHS. We supported it with EUR 13 million per year. And that is now that he has opened the appetite of the King. And that's why you bring this infamous second article. We supported it with 13 million euros from the EEA. We said 0.85% of EEA's annual expenditure on health expenditure will go to EAW. That's EUR 13 million. It surpasses the costs of airspace, that is to say, the cover of war, the planes. He's overshooting the floating spaces, which we've reduced again, but we're still being eaten by a lot of money. There have been too much money, and, indeed, we have opened three competitions that have only been launched by one - the other two - and from own resources the EAW for the first time in its history has purchased ambulances. For we have now replaced thirty-five ambulances with purchases and donations. How many have you replaced in a year? I think none. Even he has not implemented the competitions. Now it's over. And I learned that many legal advisers were involved in the Thessaloniki competition, on the grounds of the regions, and the Athens competition with the guaranteed money from Rena Dourou is being cancerd for the replacement. Now let's go to the next one. What are you doing here? If you really wanted to meet emergencies that may exist in the summer, why don't you use the provision that we voted on in 2016 that we put - and then we also accepted criticism from EKAB's associations, which today I do not see very vibrant and I will say two things about them - and which said that the EKAB is given the opportunity, if there is any disaster, if there is any destruction, if there is any mass destruction and its own planes and helicopters or the others that it has from the Air Force, to hire after the Minister of Health has approved it. That's what we put together to keep it from happening. If you want to cover this, why do you not use this article, which, in fact, you did not do a good piece of legislation because you do not abolish it - it also goes on to do so? And you're making this one here, which with all the perimeters you write is this and mark the time I say it. He will find the great gracious Mr.Blooming Vassilis and will voluntarily grant you or you will check it for him, if he does not grant it, no ATR -72 of what they do not fly, because you will not have in for the summer. And Mr. Kikilis said something earlier. I told you to bring me the OHIM's request that says we can't really cover the summer with the planes - because the helicopters are staying. There's no such document as I've learned. Mr. Kikilis comes out and says it's classified and we can't expose the country and the others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Then don't you say, Mr. Kontozamanis - it's written yesterday's TVXS - that they've sat 11 C-130, if it's a matter of confidentiality. Well, because they can be made and it's a pretext, don't say it. You said so. Keep the same line as Mr. Kikilia if you want to strengthen national confidentiality. Why are you acting like this? That's what I said. I didn't say it. That's where they said it. Mr Kikilias comes out and says 'we cannot expose the country' and Mr Kontozamanis came out yesterday and says 'the eleven can't make it available to us'. Well, because they can be made available, there is clearly the possibility of repairing them and we have dealt with such problems. It is a pretext for what you say and it is a paving the way for the privatisation of the aerospace that after 30-9 you will give an extension and end. The crime you do, the most criminal of all - and I draw attention to you - is that, as you describe it here, flight control is actually leaving the Air Force. The N.A.D. doesn't fly. The doctors agree on the incident, they appreciate whether or not they will take it, and the air force commander is the Air Force. And since the Air Force re-entered after the crime that Sifiti's PASOK had committed, three fell with "ALITALIA" - because they were paid when they flew and that's why they flew with the storm, and Beffon fell and then the other two fell - we don't have an accident. And we personally make you all responsible and those who decided on Maximus at a meeting that took place. Because the aerospace manager knew that seventy days there are some problems and you could have made them. Why don't you make them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u146	I'll be done. You are responsible if it happens - beating up - anything, if this thing moves forward. We call on you to withdraw the provision, to make use, if necessary, of the arrangements that we have made. Obviously, there's no request from the Air Force or the Army Air Force that you supported all your phrases and arguments to open this thing up. You lead the NSAV to dangerous perverts. I was expecting a greater reaction from the U.S.H.A.A.'s union. Did you actually give the uniform allowance that we held and wanted the institutions to cut it off this year? Because from February last year they were shouting that it has not been given, and now it has arrived June and it has not been given, and I see no one shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u148	These must be heard, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u149	To be heard, Mr Colleague, but you've been speaking for ten minutes already. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u150	I heard we asked for an ESDP on training supposedly personnel to participate in the aerospace. And we're going to get rid of nothing. Is that the 'antidote' they don't talk about now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u151	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u152	I would also like to say a few words about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Colleague, please. You've been in ten minutes and half a speech. How much more can I give you? Excuse me. You could have been on the amendment so long too. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u154	And so much more I have to say. One phrase and I'm closing. We will say a lot and tomorrow in the timely question and more specifically and in detail. The base of Iou, the base of the Coast, the base of Halkidiki is a project that we left with and with this thing you will undermine. And that's against all the islanders. The Santorini Hospital, which we fought too much, is Santorini's big gun to tourism, the big weapon. The Naxos Hospital, which from a health center we made the hospital, is the same. The Karpathos Hospital that we had in place, and despite the fact that he's Mr. Gerapetritis from there, since last year, you haven't dragged a line. The hospital's ready and with budgets and everything, and with notices that you canceled, and now you're resuming the doctors. That's our difference. It'll all look. No one is saved because he feeds the media. The steak he does when this is over and reality comes out in the country is huge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for a minute. Would you excuse me a moment, Mr. Buquoir? The Chamber should be closed at 7 p.m. because the committee has to come. If colleagues do not understand this, I have nothing else to say from the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. I'll talk about two of my twelve minutes of placement that I'm entitled to. First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Members that I firmly believe that there are no less or more patriots in this Chamber. All wings work from their own perspective, with their own arguments, for the sake of this country. I would like to stress not only on the basis of what the former Minister of Health has said, but they have heard here earlier in the debate, that it is another subject of what is written by a media, a site and another class subject than what is called by the Step of this Chamber. Here we are discussing a bill which, on the basis of which we all agree, needs to strengthen the EKT and strengthen it with this donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which is really doing a great job, not only on the specific issue that we are discussing today, which really works in a wonderful way. There are hundreds of funding proposals there, assessed objectively, funded many innovative proposals in the country, many projects of general interest in the country, many actions from this institution. And it would be good if the public administration could copy the practices of this institution, namely, how the proposals get there, how they are evaluated and at what speed in the end they are financed. These are good practices. But, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, what do you want to say to us today, that it saves even these seasons of upgrading the eastern threats, we must commit the Air Force planes and de, to turn the pilots of our Air Force into doctors and injured pilots, to fight the media, and we are coming here to ask for documents on what is the preparedness and availability of the airplanes of our Air Force, here in this room, at a public meeting? I would ask, in the spirit of the consensus which thankfully distinguishes us all in such cases and in such times, that we all look more closely at and be more calm. Of course, the criticism of how to accept the donation and how it will work within the EAW is acceptable, but the other issues that go into the table today, I do not think they benefit this country, for which we all care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, please, for a minute I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u159	Mr Polakis, I will only give you the floor for a minute - please very much - because you are the only one who never holds his time and reaches me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President, for going beyond the limits - when.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u161	I'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Comrade, we have a very high sense of national responsibility and we have proved it. What we have denounced is that it is a pretext of such a request or of such kind of flight capacity leaks, to turn the ground into the assignment of the aerospace to Mr Vassilis. It's very simple. Don't twist my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u163	Mr Colleague, I have not distorted what you have said, and I have been very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Buquoir, wait a minute. I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u165	Madam President, I asked you to do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u166	You asked him, but I didn't give him to you. Keep the guys, everybody. Come on, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Colleague, I have not distorted any of your opinions. I said that there can be no such discussion here and I told you that it is another-class thing about what a media and another-class thing about what is said by this Step. Secondly, what I am saying to you is that in today's draft law we are voting on it is clarified that private means of transport will only be used if there are exceptional and increased needs. These private flights in which you are obsessed with are not the only ones in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. Mr Cretan from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, with this draft law we dominate the work 5 of the donation contract between Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State. This donation has the esteemed title 'Health Initiative' and so far we have seen that this initiative has indeed only positive implications and results for the public health system. It is an initiative that acts as an excellent model of private and public partnership and puts the idea of supply and return to society at the core of business activity. Besides, no profit and no success makes sense even though society cannot benefit from it. I therefore consider it very important that this whole series of sanctions should be given the opportunity at intervals to remind us that the upgrading of structures that form society and define our daily lives is not an obligation of another or only state through its services, but also a task of every citizen or institution in this particular case. Through this interaction and through this incorporation of the obligation to return to society, a sense of supply, individual responsibility and volunteering is also structured. So, as a model, this initiative has much more implications in the social whole than we are discussing today. After all, at this time of the unprecedented health crisis, we have seen that the donations and mobilisation of entrepreneurs to their links on the world market have helped to provide and send the necessary health material to Greece. All of this was done by encouraging and impeccable government organization and instigating the sense of trust between state and citizen. And this is a fundamental point of contact between the government and the citizens, between the administration of a business and the worker, between the chief and his current. What? Trust. What our Government has achieved is to gain the confidence of Greek citizens, with the seriousness with which every crisis is facing, with the structured speech and the friendly way in which our Prime Minister can communicate and present the solutions to them. The confidence of the Greek citizens is our driving force to continue on the path of responsibility. And I imagine this is also for all colleagues in the opposition. This confidence has caused Greek citizens to follow the government's guidelines for self-restriction and precautionary measures. This confidence basically brought the excellent results in dealing with pandemic. This trust will help us to win part of the summer tourist season. Greece is one of the most secure destinations in the world. We managed at a time of crisis to rebranding in Greece. Regarding this draft law providing for the supply of two new aircraft and two new helicopters, as mentioned above, instead of the maintenance of existing aircraft, as originally agreed, as this decision was considered more appropriate. The Foundation accepted our proposal and approved a corresponding increase - you know - of the budget up to EUR 26 400 000. An amendment to the original contract, which was ratified by Law 4638, was signed on 5 October 2019 and provided for the amendment and replacement of the corresponding article. With regard to the contract to be ratified, it shall describe the detailed description of the parties' obligations for the completion of the donation and shall refer to the amount of funding, the budget of the project, the schedule of implementation, the conditions of implementation, the certification of completion of the project, the name of the project and provisions relating to the maintenance, maintenance and operation of the project. The draft law also contains provisions on the additional shielding of the health system, especially for island areas, in the event of the spread of the coronary. In particular, the second Article defines the procedure for meeting all needs, which may arise in island areas throughout the territory for air transport of patients who have had a coronary disease or other diseases and accidents. All organisational procedures are described. On this basis, the plan provides for the use of aircraft and air means, through private donations and through lease with provision for compensation, use or remuneration. For the purpose of organising this operation, the EAW shall establish a list of the available, to the composite, aircraft, appropriately designed for the operation of the aerospace facilities, with criteria for the conclusion of a lease contract, the directity of the provision of the service and the lowest offer. In the event of the availability or inadequacy of the available air means of transport, due to the number and increased frequency of air transport incidents, provision is made for the possibility of a private air means to be requisitioned from the list for which use compensation and operator fee will be paid. In conclusion, I would like to stress that it is important to be able to discuss draft laws which aim to upgrade and develop the health system after a decade of restrictions and forced suffocation. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Villardos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution for 12 minutes, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. We will start from the fact that unfortunately - and we stress the word "happily" - we confirmed yesterday's report of the President of the Greek Solution in the Greek EEZ - Italy. In this regard, the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs stated today: "In the agreement on AOZ, however, with Italy, Greece in three islands, in Kefalonia, in the Strofades and the Othos did not give full influence to these islands". I read them just like he said. He even described the positive agreement for Turkey as saying that 'this is good for us and is right about our agreement with Libya. We with Libya may sign an agreement and take steps to make investigations and drills on their continent." We all understand the consequences for the Aegean and for Kastelorizo, hoping that this is not an underground transaction. I'll submit it to the Minutes. In the agreement now, the Greek State has been faced with shortcomings in the aerospace sector in recent years, as in many other sectors. In this case, it owns three AB109 POWER helicopters located for five years at the premises of ODA for maintenance purposes. The Greek State was not interested in exploiting and upgrading them, ever until today. They are helicopters purchased in 2000, while the EAW only operated for about fifteen years, i.e. a relatively little strained airplane. The result of this indifference was to use the remaining airplanes of the Air Force for aerospace purposes, at prohibitive cost of flights and maintenance, as well as with an additional involvement of the flight crew and the technical staff of the Armed Forces in the aerospace missions. This was how the airline was removed from the Armed Forces by an important operational project on their main mission, which is to defend our national sovereignty, at least that which we have left. For example, according to data from the Ministry of Defence, nine hundred eight missions were carried out in 2014 from the Air Force and twenty-seven from the Drought Army, with a total price of EUR 11.5 million - as we will present in the Minutes at the end together - EUR 12,500 per mission, when private companies charge EUR 3,000 to 4,000 per mission, based on reports, such as what we will also submit in the Minutes, because we always want to substantiate our views. And I move on to today's convention now with an institution that dictates the conditions for using its donation, with unspecified operating costs. Yes, while the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, based in a well-known tax haven, makes an important offer for the state, but at the same time requires the promotion of its name, that is what is called the internationally known "humanity of expression". Furthermore, there is no assessment of alternative possibilities and a cost-benefit study. In any case, we agree as a Greek solution regarding the acquisition of new airborne means in support of aerospace missions, as part of this contract with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. However, money must be made available immediately to make use of the three unjustified AB109 helicopters, due to their lack of maintenance, as well as the well-established C27G transporters. In addition, we propose that the Single National Civil Protection Agency, which has been set up at last for almost ten years, should finally be set up and operated on paper, such as a lot of other in our home country, where all the instruments of the EKA, fire-fighting, port, etc., should be included, in order to protect the citizen in this autonomous body, independent of the Armed Forces and Security Body, as is the case in most developed states of the West. We also propose that the issue of aerospace should be included in the strategic planning for tourism, hospitals throughout the territory, as well as hot spots on the islands, which may be charged with these crossroads. As far as the parties to the Convention are concerned, we have the following. First, it started as part of the initial donation with SYRIZA's Law 4564/2018, as a project to supply new equipment to enhance the capacity and efficiency of the ACID's aerospace facilities. Hereinafter referred to as Project V. Second, Project V was converted by a subsequent law in October 2019 into a procurement of two new aircraft and repair of two existing helicopters of EUR 25 million. Thirdly, Project V is being reconstructed with the present supply of two new US aircraft and two Italian helicopters of the Italian 'LEONARDO', which also manufactures C27G, and works extensively with the Turkish defence industry, valued at EUR 5 million each, i.e. an estimated maximum of EUR 26.4 million. First article. Under Article 2 of the Convention, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation dictates the operation and maintenance of aircraft at public expense for at least five years, initially by aircraft manufacturers. In addition, the EAW will be charged with the supply of medical equipment, while the General Accounting Office of the State, as usual, does not attach any cost to all of them. The Annex concerning the maintenance of both aeroplanes is not mentioned as a maintenance organisation by the ODA. That is to say, the conclusion of a maintenance contract in general with an authorised body is left open. So we wonder why ODA is not involved. Even worse, the implementation schedule is not set out in Article 4, and if the four aircraft or their temporary replacements are not delivered this summer, then all the missions will be covered by the private sector at an unlimited cost. We have tried and made some calculations, assessing the cost higher than the EUR 10 to 12 million that has been in recent years. Further to sub-paragraph 5, it is laid down that aircraft must be accepted, otherwise the public shall be withdrawn and reinstated at unspecified costs. But as far as their technical specifications are concerned, there has already been disagreement by Mr Papanikolaou. So we wonder why that disagreement. Furthermore, in Article 7, the State is to be charged with safeguarding and safeguarding it, and in the event of a loss the State should replace the aircraft. In addition, the institution requires - continuously - that its name be shown in the biennial with Article 6, while in the annexes, the institution's logo is on the intact aircraft, a particularly obvious point. The second Article of the Convention describes how aerospace contracts are to be concluded for patients. In addition to the same means, three possibilities are given to the Government to meet needs by individuals and states that the charges or the method of compensation for claims will be determined by a ministerial decision. It does not make sense to accept that. We would never agree, which is why we will also vote 'at present' in the convention. Finally, two further comments. Firstly, the new state airline created by AIR EAECB, with four to eight aircraft and civil aviation personnel, will have the same fleet as the former ‘Olympic’, eleven or twelve aircraft today, after the concession of ATR by AEGEAN, which we do not know whether it will be useful and at the cost of conversion. In addition, we continue to pay for bourgeois lines about 10 million a year, while all these aerospace and barren lines could be undertaken by a normal state air carrier with cheaper staff without subsidizing 'AEGEAN'. Secondly, the big question is what are we going to do with these institutions located in tax havens and while they are not subject to state control they dictate strict conditions of cooperation? Are we going to demand that these institutions be fully taxed and that they be banned from spending money on non-registered NGOs? It would be interesting if a government were to ask all these institutions to help strengthen the country's defence. Would they? I doubt it. Irrespective of the above, we want to refer to AEGEAN, which, while calling for public support, invests in a Romanian airline, as we will present in the Minutes. In this respect, it is clear that the State should not give any money without at least its share-holding, such as the German State in LUFTHANSA, and has no reason to support its investments in Romania, nor the massive market in aircraft from ‘AIRBUS’. Didn't she really get the gift from OLYMPIAKIS that she bought for just 72 million euros together with her clientele, as we're going to testify in the Minutes? Are political families so bald, obviously, and the others who support it? Finally, we consider it essential to provide as many facilities and regulations as possible for households and businesses. We stress this because they now have an absolute need for at least their loans and obligations to the State and the insurance institutions. Only so will they manage to survive with the deep recession anticipated, and banks must be forced to provide more loans to businesses without requiring 20% in cash when the state guarantees 80%. Moreover, the Greek banks have the highest commissions and the most expensive interest rate in the European Union, as we will prove in the oral question we have tabled to the Ministry of Finance, which must be stopped immediately, as is the case with the atrocious charges on telecommunications, since this is how our economy is strangled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u172	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is the first time I have spoken to the Greek Parliament after the coronary and I think there is a difficulty and forgive me for that numbness. In our view there is a very clear discussion of this bill, the signing of the contract between the Greek State and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the supply of aircraft to the EKA. I think there should also be recognition of the work of the previous head of the Ministry of Health, Mr Xanthos and Mr Tsipras, the former Prime Minister of the country for having started discussions between this institution and we have now managed to sign this convention. Of course, it is not the same thing that we had tabled and had done so in the final form. The New Democracy, the current government, decided to change it. The necessary points have been made by the former Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Polakis, about what the government is doing, and I will also point out a few things. Also, let me say that because I come from an area where it has benefactors, we are designated for our benefactors, I understand the criticism of the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 for the benefactors and it is obviously based on an Internet search in history, there are no assumptions in his or her statements, but in general I think there are people who may not be recognized by the Greek State, such as these benefactors who are indeed, but have benefited the country with little or little help to the Greek society. So I think that overall criticism is not helping. Allow me, Madam President, because my dear colleague, the rapporteur of the New Democracy said that there are issues that we can do against, that is to say, he pointed out the areas in which we can make an opposition, such as the economy and national issues, and urged us to discuss such things, I will not miss the opportunity to say two - three things about the opposition period that SYRIZA is doing. First of all, I'm going to be standing in the economy, my dear colleague. The Minister of Development, Mr. Georgiadis, said in a today's statement that the growth we had in SYRIZA, 2.8% by the second quarter of 2019, was due to the allowances and the tenth of the third pension. So in this phrase we have three assumptions, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the New Democracy speaks of a thirteenth pension, it does something very important, it is the recognition on the part of the New Democracy, I will not say it stupid or untrue in relation to the opposition you have done, because you have done many things, but it is good that you recognize the thirteenth pension. The second is that the highly neoliberal New Democracy recognises that the benefits cause growth, that what they said is that because we give benefits to society, which has issues due to the ten-year crisis, does not come to growth, that now the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, a hard neoliberal man recognises that the benefits bring growth and the pay policy of the previous government have brought growth. The most important thing in my opinion is to recognise the fact that in SYRIZA we have developed, and in New Democracy we have a recession. Of course, you and the New Democracy Members are trying to cover this truth, saying that it is not a recession or we have the lowest recession in relation to other European countries. Of course, what is the lie in your analysis? In fact, you say that the recession has brought it into the pandemic, that is the New Democracy logic. What's the lie in the whole conversation? It is that the information you refer to is mentioned by the first quarter of 2020, where we had no outbreak of the pandemic, that is, there was no pandemic in the country. The figures that will come, I think, will be extremely revealing. That's the first. Let's go to the national critiques you want, the signs of the republics of the Macedonians you were wearing still exist in your head, your rackets and your forehead. However, you have a Civic Opposition, which does not have a debate, which recognises that the Foreign Minister is the country's Minister - the New Democracy truth group criticises him - and we say that the right things about foreign policy are reasonable. I read a statement from the then head of the New Democracy, Mr Kumoutsakos on 28-10-2018: "With unprecedented preoccupation and reluctance the SYRIZA government divided the country in the middle. He did it with the expansion of our territorial waters only in the Ionian Sea. This enabled Turkey to insist on its well-known position that the Aegean cannot fully implement the Law of the Sea. Once again the Greek government with cheap impressions is undermining fundamental positions of our foreign policy." Here we have a conflict of two different views in the New Democracy. Or is what Mr Kumucascus says or is not a good deal about the agreement signed by the government with Italy, because both cannot happen. I understand the conflict in your head as to what you were saying while you were at Civic Opposition and what you say as government, but do you know what? You have to remember sometime that the writings are left or the videos are left. In today's debate on the EMCDDA, I would like to mention two things about the important work done by the previous government for the EMCDDA, and I will mention two examples concerning one of my regions in Preveza and the other in general the area of Western Greece. The first, Minister, is the EKAV Mesopotamou station, a constant demand for local society. It happened in 2018, we inaugurated the station, it worked. It covers, if you want, this station is a distance from Preveza to Igoumenitsa. In recent years, Minister, there has been a malfunctioning of this station, because its administration cannot find people to place them in these positions. I've asked a question about it. Please also because of the tourist season you can cover these places. I know that the commander of EKAV Ioannina is doing an excellent job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the second - and I shall end, Madam President - is the aerospace base of the coast. It covers all Western Greece and the Ionian Islands, ladies and gentlemen, and I was waiting for you here to recognize it, that is to say, yes, these people have done a serious job and to recognize it. I shall conclude, Madam President, with the amendment of the Ministry of Labour. This amendment recognises that we have a confession of failure of the initial programme as tabled by the Ministry of Labour, of the 'CONTROL' programme. You retour the program, you do partial 'blocks' to save the situation, but 'blocks' are also against employers, who are not assisted, small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the economy, what you have always said, are not assisted and no change is being made as far as the workers are concerned. They remain the 20% cuts of their salaries, they remain non-protection against redundancies and, of course, they remain the reduction of the allowance and the Christmas gift. I think, therefore, that this amendment recognises the failure of the Ministry of Labour to defend the rights of workers in the country. I think the government should change the question and at least at the last minute, even now, help these people. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u174	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak exclusively about the aerospaces and specifically about the Cyclades, as I come from the Cyclades and say that in October 2016 the Aerospace Base of EKAV was inaugurated in Syria for the first time since the political leadership, Andreas Blondos and Paul Polakis, and this aerospace base was the result of struggles and expectations decades ago, it was a dream and at the same time a real demand to cover the public health of our islands, which succeeded and became a reality on the days of SYRIZA. This aerospace base was the result of the will of the political leadership and the result of cooperation between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport. In fact, at some point, a memorandum of cooperation between these three ministries was signed, in order to have a single aerospace operator, where all the means of flight included both the Army and the Air Force and the Police and the Firefighting Agency and would be available to use the EKAB at any point of the island or the inappropriate Greece there was a need to go through such airplanes. This whole case became part of a framework for upgrading the public health system, which was one of the pillars of SYRIZA's government policy. Unfortunately, as things are now forming, and despite the fact that there has been a very bad history, there has been a tragedy of the loss of three helicopters in the early 2000s and fourteen people, doctors, rescuers, crews and patients, with the assignment, from the political leadership, of flight and technical management to a private company, HELITALIA, with the famous Agusta helicopters, this led to the right decision by the Air Force to effectively take control of the Aerospaces and so we have not had a single accident in aerospace. Today, as things are forming, and from the news that comes to us, we are going to withdraw the Air Force and Air Force from the aerospace. I have very recent response from the Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr Stefani, to my question, co-signed by Andreas Xanthos and Paul Paulakis, because Mr Stefanis used the NH-90 helicopter of the Syros EKAV to go to other missions in the eastern Aegean. I'm not saying he went for a walk, but he used it for other missions. The answer to this question was that basically the work of the Air Force for the Mississippi Air Force and the Air Force is secondary and three-fold work, that is, it is not the main task, that is to say it is a social project that the Army is doing. What does he want to tell us about that? He wants to tell us that now that you are in things you have a different perception of the role of the Army and of the Air Force, and so you are blocking that competence of the airspace, that the Air Force is withdrawing and you, the Ministry of Health, are entering into the logic of the PPPs, not to say to the logic of full privatization. And this comes to confirm Article 2. Article 2 speaks of a transitional period up to 30 September where cooperation between the ESDC and private companies can take place or hire private aircraft. But, firstly, why should some private companies do conversion costs only for three to four months? I don't understand that. So if AEGEAN, which seems to take this responsibility, this assignment, with what millions correspond to that assignment, does it only change aircraft for three months? Is it going to make an investment which will then dismantle it again, why will the planes return to the control of the EMCDDA, to an exclusive public body? That's the one question. And the second question is what I said to you, which is clearly coming out of Mr Stefani's answer. By the way, during this period, Mr Kontozamanis, some visits were made to our islands in Cyclades - he says - of the mobile EGE units with inflatable, etc. First of all, I don't know if there are ETA mobile units with inflatable inflatables. Of course we saw that you cooperated with the company 'CONTINUATION' and the company 'AXION HELLAS'. Of course, it is not wrong for doctors to go to the islands and rejoice to see doctors. On a visit you went and personally, I saw you in the photo, I think in Amorgos. And of course the mayors are happy to go to doctors on the islands. First question: Was there a need for diagnostic tests to be carried out on the islands in three months' quarantine and there was no imported person entering the islands? Even a sheep didn't enter a human being to carry the coronary to the islands. Why didn't you do to visitors or visitors to the future tourists diagnostic tests and do to the islands? And secondly, what was this whole process of inflatable deportation? Who's the one with this pod? Unless they put it in their pocket, prove it to us and we won't have any objections. And I close with a word about Mr Brutsi's amendment. Listen to me, Mr. Brutsis is used to twisting things and showing black-white. Here it comes, it brings the amendment - which, of course, has been announced - to reduce workers' wages by 20% by rotating work and reducing the Christmas and Easter gifts respectively, and also, in essence, to liberalise redundancies for those who are not in the rotating programme. That's what this is about. Everything else that will be covered from 85% to 100% of the wage, I don't understand. In other words, a worker who takes a 1,000 euros will get 500 out of half a job and receive 60% of the 500, that is, about 300 euros. So it's finally going to take 800 euros while it was getting 1,000 euros. Is that 100% coverage? So here we're going to go out that we don't know exactly and numerical. Understand, who does Mr. Brutsi want to convince? So that's all and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Burhan has the floor for seven minutes. And soon thereafter he is the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, few would disagree with the view that the National Health System is unable to meet the increased needs of citizens and the current challenges for the provision of quality and accessible services. The economic recession has clearly left its print on Greek society and the widening of its effects is a matter for the health sector as well. Today we are called upon to ratify the Greek Parliament another project which bears the number 5 from the donation contract between Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Greek State to strengthen and upgrade health infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first of this bill, we as a Change Movement welcome this donation, as in the midst of the enormous health crisis, the pandemic, which we have been working on, the institution's contribution is vital to a fragmented health system that has been in our country for many years. You also know very well that the infrastructure and operation of many hospitals across the region of Greece are no longer worthy of the new medical challenges and incidents. Because I am aware of things, there is in particular the example of the Xanthi hospital - a region that I represent - which is difficult to serve even the local society and you know very well the unrelenting blow that the local society of my prefecture has accepted from the coronary scourge. Besides, Minister, despite my repeated questions to you I have never received a clear answer about the future of this hospital. And I would like to refer specifically to the psychiatric clinic that is ready to work. We have the department, we have the staff, but I still don't understand why it doesn't work. In fact, I quote the fact that at the hospital in Xanthi in three - four clinics we had the coronary. Is there any proper respect for health measures? Already in our prefecture in Xanthi, the tests carried out last week showed 29 new cases. And in the last two days these cases have increased. So we have a problem with Xanthi, but when I watch the media no one refers to the number and what happens with these cases in Xanthi. In the whole range of things polypathic Thrace also has to deal with the financial consequences of the coronary. As you know the previous days, the OPEK's social tourism programme for 2020-2021 was notified to our country's hotel accommodations. Xanthi's exclusion from this project has caused the strong discontent of local hotel owners, as this geographical region is an example of an area called to manage migratory flows and significant impact on the functioning of local business. Honestly tell us, what do you intend to do in Xanthi that has been so hurt by the coronary? I stress that this region of our country does not have the appropriate readability but also the accessibility that other destinations have, and that is why we are calling for the same policy to be implemented at Thrace hotels. On this occasion, I would like to make a very brief reference as a member of the minority and refer to the draft law on education which we tabled yesterday on the introduction of the pupils of the Muslim minority in Thrace to higher education. We have proposed to increase the rate of importers from 0.5% to 1%. The aim is thus to further support the prospect of Muslim minority youth for studying in Greek higher education. We speak with actions and not with words like the representatives of SYRIZA who formulate what they have done, and the minority world knows very well that the private high school of Xanthi was transformed into a public school. What did SYRIZA do about the merges of schools and about the solution of the buildings? These are issues on which we have asked many questions to you, and what will become of the minority high school infrastructure? By continuing now a draft law on Article 2, no reference is made to whether there is an establishment plan or an aerospace plan for the incidents of COVID -19, as is the case with other medical incidents. After 30 September 2020, which is the end date of the agreement, what are you going to do in the coming months? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. Minister, the World Health Organisation is hitting the alarm as the estimates of a new wave of viral outburst during the autumn period are bleak. I really wonder: How do you think about dealing with this whole situation after 30 September? We are here to hear your thoughts and suggestions in detail and logically. We expect the Government to do so, not least by the Minister responsible, documented and serious answers to the questions that I have put to you above. We must not forget that we must make the most of this great task so that we never again see similar instances of abandonment of either hospital or even more of patients. The times demand consistency, hardship and responsibility for the supreme good of health that is being put at all its levels to maintain as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too. The parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin, ladies and gentlemen, from a foreign policy issue very seriously, last Tuesday's happy development with the signing of the Greek-Italy Agreement on the Exclusive Economic Zone, an agreement signed after decades, that is, after 1977, where the corresponding continental agreement had been signed. As a movement of change, but also myself, we have described a positive development in signing this agreement by the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs and his Italian counterpart, for some young people. First of all, because it is the first agreement signed between Greece on the Exclusive Economic Zone and our countries of direct interest, Albania, Italy, Libya, Egypt, Cyprus and Turkey. Secondly, because after the unacceptable development we have had with Turkey's state-owned company, which seeks permission for research into our islands' territory, Crete, Karpathos, Rhodes, on the one hand, and the Turks unilaterally admit that the islands have no influence, a very large, serious country in the European Union accepts exactly the opposite. Thirdly, because we have no acceptance on the part of Greece of the historical rights of Italy to fish in territorial waters, which can potentially be made from six of us. However, a concession of Greece, when it extends its territorial waters, should the Italian fishermen be able there to do their job, which they today are doing freely, without restrictions, because these waters are international. An example of this positive development is Albania's improperness to sign an agreement in this regard and Greece's lost opportunity just two months ago when it was struggling to start its accession negotiations with the European Union, where Greece could presuppose its agreement to conclude the relevant procedures with Albania. We didn't. We criticised this omission and this alignment with the dominant logic in those weeks, at the end of February with the beginning of March 2020, in the European Union, led by Germany. We could then have reached such a similar agreement, going beyond the relevant blockades which the Albanian side has formulated and made. We are now going to health issues in the environment where our country, Europe and the whole of the COVID pandemic -19. What we are living in, Minister, is a situation that escapes every control and I have experienced it personally with crowdage and live too many Greeks in many areas of Greece. The perception that we have and hired and created within the weeks of unfavourable developments is that the national economy and the Greek citizens cannot easily withstand the closures of the market, the lockdowns, as we say. A second one will be painful in relation to the first one. We therefore have some defences to oppose a repetition of the phenomenon from October onwards: Firstly, our experience, the experience of the medical world, medicines, possibly vaccines. Secondly, the best organization we now have to do in intensive care units, which we are rightly saying should be increased and increased, but we do not say that it is not only necessary to have good organs and beds, but you must also have staff who can do the most difficult job, that is to say, to offer services to an intensive care unit. Beyond the ESS and its better organization, it is the consciousness of every citizen, every society, who obeyed the ban, but does not obey security measures, while Greece invests in a possible second round in the conscious behaviour of the citizen. It is spreading into the country of pseudo-Burdilogy, that all of this was deliberately and intentionally done, because it is not true. The lack on the part of young and greater consciousness in collective behavior is evident and not only in Mykonos, but almost everywhere. And here the move to open up the market, because we welcomed it, has not been accompanied by such an organization that excludes fatalities such as what we have learned there have been in South Korea, where a man has been enough to pass this disease on to more than three hundred and then, the cycle of dissemination is too large and uncontrolled sometimes. These must be carefully monitored. We need to be more careful than we are talking about in practice. You also seemed quite inadequate here - since you were organizing the opening up of the market - to understand exactly how things should be done. I also have experience - this now makes no sense at the National Representation - from quarantine that the people who come today, until at least yesterday, from abroad. Examination, the test results one and a half days later and in the meantime, the citizen who is unconscious is circulating and going everywhere, the next night he learns that he is a body, that he has the coronary, that he has been infected, that he is positive to this test. It's so direct experience in my own political environment that I mention, because it's indicative, because the flight started from the United States. So, here you have a duty to organise the behaviour of the Greek citizen who is going on holiday, who is gathering in the squares, who has not understood exactly what we are all at risk and a debt, too, to organise health services, intensive care units, the EKRD and everything else is relevant to the need to provide daily care services in terms of health and at the same time to deal with a pandemic. In this context, we are also considering, as a parliamentary group, this draft law. There have been doubts here about the possibility of providing certain maintenance services to aircraft that the EKPB has and what it will receive from the donation. A memorandum will be signed. But we don't know our conditions, the capabilities of the Air Force, if these planes and helicopters will come and then some time they'll be decommissioned. There is an uncertainty in terms of what is organisational content. It would be very good when you brought the relevant legislative initiative to the House to have brought the memorandum, so that we can know whether it is the right choice to donate two helicopters and two aircraft and not to be in the framework of the donation, as planned at first stage. There are doubts here - and I would like to say this better - which we are making and in that sense we are calling on you to answer. Article 2 also sets out to the committee and, here and here, your reply will possibly highlight issues and concerns which have been expressed in this Chamber and not only by Mr Poulas and the Change Movement, but also by other parties and by the Civic Opposition. So your answer here in relation to Article 2 will wait to clarify some serious things. Two amendments have now been tabled. The first is the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour, which concerns an issue on which the Change Movement has been originalised with regard to its proposals for partial employment needs related to contributions. The clearest, normal solution, without asterisks, without secondary and reporting proposals, was to say that in this policy, as the money is available, I cover 40% or 60% - that you could - of contributions. You didn't say that. You have left the obligation to contribute in full, in the case - I am referring again - to Law 4690/2020. And you come now after so long to say 'wrong, we fix it'. Ladies and gentlemen, they have been fixing this for three weeks. If we understand the wording of the amendment correctly, these rules will apply until 7 July. I do not know if Mr Brutsi orally backed the amendment in this Chamber, I saw it this morning, but I do not know exactly what he has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u180	He's backed it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u181	Yeah. But the length of time is three weeks. Why? Why is it three weeks? What's the point? And, secondly, contributions on nominal wages, are you analyzing this? Do you understand that how it works in practice? Contributions to nominal wages, which remain at those levels before the pandemic, before the crisis, before the need for parttime work. Why would we vote for that? What do you fix this for? We will not vote for that. This amendment is wrong. It is persevering with a mistake that has been committed a few weeks ago. And speaking of an amendment from the Ministry of Labour in June with one click, pensions would come out. Give me a pension that came out with a click. We are now on the 11th of the month, give me one case of pensions that came out with one click. In any case, behind the big words, we knew behind the thick words, we knew that these were the pensions, the digitalized, that would involve the OGA and the widow's pensions, but when the widow's pensions were issued, the other husband would get them from the one who left this world. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That was the glorious plan, things that were done. And resulting, ladies and gentlemen,? That with the change that took place, neither the OGA pensions, which came out immediately when there was no successive insurance, nor the OGA pensions come out with one click. We arrived in June when it was the month of the promise, we would expect something to tell us about it. Last item on the draft law, the other amendment, thirteen articles, too many issues. That's a draft law. No, we can't vote for it. We have changed the arrangements it contains, some are positive. At the last minute, however, there are so many provisions, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Although I am in this job, it is not my job to try to understand, to be sure and to be positive about an amendment that I see at the last minute and which I have to see very carefully, to be sure that tomorrow I will not be able to apologise. 'The present', therefore, is because there are provisions which appear to contain positive regulations. Madam President, I would like to make a general statement, if you will allow me, otherwise I am done. I want to make a reference to a broader subject, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u182	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u183	I'm just gonna need a minute. Today's news report covers the following: That the European Central Bank begins and plans to create Bad Bank, the bad bank. When we proposed this for Greece as a Movement of Change, Democratic Incorporation at that time, Mr. Ulysses Constantinople introduced it three years ago, laughing at us, that we are populists - that is what SYRIZA said against us - that we propose things that are not done, that the Ministry of Finance laughed and laughed. We insisted, however, - regardless of whether we were complete in terms of technical details or not - that this is one solution and there is no other. Because according to the analysis made by Mr Stournaras, Minister, it is not only the burden of red loans in relation to the passiveness of the banks, it is also their refusal to borrow the market, fearing that the banks will increase the cycle of red loans. It is an inhibiting factor for the future too, it is not a long-term settlement of red loans. The central bank of Greece, Mr. Stournaras, is also coming to support the creation of Bad Bank. Silence from you. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The State Secretary responsible, we have said this here, Mr Zavvos, does not seem to be a supporter of the idea. It is enough for the HERAKLIS programme, which we all admit is small in relation to the subject. And now we are learning that the European Central Bank, Mrs Lagard, is organising at central level on the part of the European Union or the Eurozone, we will see Bad Bank and that is how it facilitates the Member States to take relevant initiatives. Apart from this very serious issue, which for the market is alpha and omega at the moment, because I am repeating the regulation of red loans is a future, it is not a past, we hope you will take an initiative or at least let us know, because we are talking about it again, but you are not reacting. And we expect you to react, and I repeat, because this is a big issue of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u184	A small change has been made for Mr Georgios Lambroulis, who is the general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, who will then replace me, we will give him the turn to speak, to speak and then to preside over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u185	To thank my colleagues. That was indeed, Mr President, in any case, a mistake in the preparation of the Bureau and the President-in-Office who would be involved today in the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u186	We're not considering that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u187	I thank those colleagues who give me the position. The second point concerns the amendments from what we have said. I shall now pass on to the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour, which is an unacceptable, appalling amendment, regulation. We have asked for it before and we ask you to withdraw it now. The amendment also concerns what the Minister said. It is a new attractive subsidisation pin, strengthening business groups and employers in the name of supposedly ensuring jobs, as the government is mocking and mocking, but also of the Minister for Labour, Mr Brutsis. What's he doing? Firstly, it paves the way for massive smashing of workers' wages and further hitting full-time, buttoning on the rest of the so-called exceptional anti-grassrooted measures of the last period. Secondly, apart from any references made by the Government and the Minister of Labour, the conditions are laid down so that the vast majority of workers are forced by employers to work with the remuneration - crumbs provided for in their minimum wage. Thirdly, who will bear the burden of the mechanism, the cost of the famous? It will be charged to workers and the people's backs either through tax fraud or new cuts in government expenditure. Fourthly, in addition to the lack of control mechanisms and under the blackmail of employers, it is assumed that, as is often the case with parttime contracts, the working hours will be extended illegally, so now thousands of workers will be forced to work at the time they are supposed not to work, leading them clearly to further intensification of work. So all the financial instruments for business groups, for large businesses, while for unemployment workers, a reduction in wages, a towel of income. At the same time, what we are proposing is a 100% payroll and full and stable work for workers, for all workers. I'm hanging up with this. So, as far as this amendment is concerned, I repeat, an amendment and we call for it to be withdrawn, otherwise obviously if you accept it, we will vote against it. As far as the Health Ministry's amendment is concerned, we have various regulations that are promoted in the thirteen articles of the amendment. Staff movements, extensions of contracts with various flexible working relationships of different types and different areas of responsibility of the Ministry of Health continue. At the same time, restrictions or extensions are being lifted and others, favouring the private sector. In fact, all this on demand. In other words, you are perpetuating the same situation, for example with working relationships in a number of articles, when we are and even with the development of pandemic at another time, where, in our opinion, the planning required is the direct recruitment of all this staff for public health units, the permanentisation of all workers with subsidiary and all sorts of flexible health relationships. We therefore also vote against this amendment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u188	You're welcome. We will give the floor to Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Let me begin with the reference to the agreement with Italy, which we welcomed. Of course, we expect information on its content and what we stress is that strengthening the national line, shaping - if you like - the roadmap in relation to demarcation of maritime zones will enable us not only to achieve better results in terms of agreements with other countries, but also to achieve better content in themselves, so that we can have the best result. The issues involved in the bill are, of course, related to the issue of Air Force and I cannot comment on the negative development that has been taking place in recent years in terms of maintenance of transport aircraft. It cannot be allowed - we choose and take - out of twelve C-130 transport aircraft to have a minimum number available to us because their maintenance procedures do not go any further. It is criminal, therefore, the indifference of recent years, the indifference that has continued and which has led to this solution to the cooperation of the ESDP with the Air Force in terms of aircraft. Of course, when we first heard it, we said 'What is going on here', but the information that came then on the real situation of the Air Force in relation to the C-130 justifies the speeding up of procedures on the one hand of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation's donation, in order to obtain the EKAB the two aircraft and the two helicopters, and, of course, the possibility at any time, that the needs can be met beyond the ships and helicopters of the Hellenic Air Force and the private sector. In addition, there has been a regulation since 2015 which allowed it. I do not know why the 2015 regulation by SYRIZA regarding the possibility of a private contract is not enough to meet the needs and comes Article 2. In any case, Article 2 again clipboard came. It could have real rules and ways in which we can make effective use of the possibility of concluding a contract with the private sector in order to serve the needs of the EAW. It is generally cloudy, it does not have the counselor's element, which, in our view, could be the Air Force and in this case, just as you have put it in the contract with "Stavros Niarchos". It is for us an important deficit. Nevertheless, the rapporteur has told us that we are putting ourselves in a positive position despite the problems and the negative ones we have pointed out in these provisions, as has been said. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] We therefore have a convention and an article on this possibility, on which we stand positively, but at the same time we have to say that there are issues with the amendments. The amendment, as Andreas Loverdes quite rightly explained earlier, by the Ministry of Labour, is, unfortunately,'seeing and doing'. This tactic, the line is followed by the government, and it is the example of the Ministry of Labour, attribute every week and see how we go below, bring another amendment after another MGP and another provision. Is it possible to bring in a three-week arrangement? Can there not be a design that takes into account reality in relation to the recession, but also the need to act as many businesses as possible, to get as many jobs as possible? You have therefore deleted, as a government, our proposal to support work, to activate jobs, when we said almost two months ago 'a programme here and now for a million workers, 40% aid for at least wage and non-wage costs for full-time workers, in order to enable the activities and businesses concerned to be active, to be supported'. We have said, at the same time, that it will be three million domestic tourism, fifteen million overnight, but the cost will be EUR 750,000, but it will create a turnover which will be extremely important, will be the yeast for tourists and tourists to function more widely, and they would actually get the money that the Greek State would have for the work of the people of tourism and of course for the businesses and for the areas where these activities are being carried out. Unfortunately, you have thrown them into the bead of the useless, as in the matter of pandemic, Minister, and we come to your own affairs. The closure of the operations and activities is clearly different, with the closing of the switch, with an order horizontally perpendicular to the overall application. However, the re-energisation of activities wants to be treated differently. For example, at this time, the decisions taken by the various ministries on the various issues cannot, for example, take into account the negative factors that strengthen pandemic or make it difficult - if you like - to deal with it. It cannot, in other words, be forced to move - and I say it as an example since last night - five hundred children and candidate students who, in some other examinations, participated in the totalitarian competition, in order to qualify for higher education, are forced to enter the ship and come to Athens. That is unacceptable! The Ministry of Education will have to make a decision here and now to give examinations where they were before, in Chania, Heraklion, I do not know if they were giving other cities. And I'm talking about special courses. Why are you going to corner them, put them on the boat to bring them to Athens? It's unacceptable! And another thing: And the universities that run tests don't follow the rules. I have to say: University of Crete has taken out a course of tests since Monday. Unfortunately, I have many complaints that they have put rooms which are not airborne, semi-pollutant, especially in Heraklion, in a department where I have the honour of having studied in the past, in Physics, which is really unacceptable, since it does not comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Kegeroglu, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u191	I quote this formally as a complaint - if you want - to the Ministry of Health and EAEC, to check because it cannot be said 'unfortunately and here we have failed'. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u192	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u193	And I would just like to make one reference to the issues that have to do with from now on with the rules and procedures that we are following. My colleague, Mr Baran, referred to Xanthi. It is not just that we can with a decision 'caratina, we close', it is the additional effects that exist in the local economies in these cases, so there must also be the corresponding treatment, financial support for people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u194	Good. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Xanthos, has the floor. Mr Bukokoros, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy and the Minister will then speak. It is a good request to respect the time limits, because at 19.00 already you know that we should grant the Chamber for a committee meeting. The Chamber and a relevant sanitary cleansing should be subjected to. Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude the debate. Adding four new airplanes at the disposal of the EMCDDA and the National Health System is obviously a positive development. I would remind you that this is an element of an overall agreement that has been made before the pandemic, before the very specific difficulty that we are dealing with right now. It is an agreement - I would say - of strategic importance between the previous government and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which was provided for precisely in the planning of the Ministry and for the Stavros Niarchos Foundation to accept it, the need to upgrade the aircraft resources of the EKA. I have referred to a number of colleagues before. There was a very specific policy option to upgrade the whole aerospace system in the previous period and the means and bases that will be attempted by aircraft and helicopters. Two additional aerospace bases were added to Syros and Aktiou, and in 2018 there was provision and capacity on the substance of this thing. There was a helicopter in the firefighting station that was stationed in Mikra and made airspace apartments from Halkidiki from a high-purpose tourist destination, so as not to waste valuable time on the road. There was provision with the Ministry of Trade Shipping to build three waterways for a crossing which will obviously be under the responsibility of the EKA, but with the operational responsibility of the port. There was provision for supplementary funding from the EKP to cover the obligations and the debt to the Air Force. So it was a very specific upgrade line in this very sensitive area, which we now understand, because of pandemic, how important it may be, especially this year's period. So you are now coming to this framework and you are putting a provision, an article, which, as you are doing in many cases in the past and in the donation of the institution - respectively - to the Komotini Hospital, there, that is, where a private body comes in, a socially beneficial institution to support the public health system, adds a provision that leaves a margin for your strategic plan for public-private partnerships, that is, this neoliberal idea of yours. Here now, things are not confessing. You are calling from here and there some shortcomings, weaknesses, problems and difficulties of the Air Force. If you are going to use this, perhaps there are problems, to promote this project, I really think it is unacceptable. There can be no operational adequacy dilemmas of the Air Force or the safety of the airspace. There is no such dilemma and it is not tragically incorrect or positioned by Mr. Stefanis, the Deputy Minister of Defence, in the question that we asked with Nikos Syrmalene, which says that it is about the social offer of the Air Force. It's not a social offer. It's a state design. It is not corporate social responsibility. It is an obligation for the Air Force and all other state services to ensure a great deal of good, which is the safe aerospace of patients. That's not a simple matter. It is also a matter of national importance to me. It's a matter of social defence. It is a question of the safety and dignity of people living on the islands and their visitors. I think, therefore, that a window is being opened here, which is obviously because at the moment there are European resources, which have a special target on infrastructure and health services, may have opened the mood for some to start investing in this sensitive area as well. So will the line of the last seventeen years be abandoned, where the operational responsibility of the airspace has been borne by the Air Force, yes or no? This is the crucial issue. And Article 2 does not clarify it. We consider this to be a tragicly precarious line, and I do not think anyone wants to find themselves, their relatives, their neighbors or the visitors of the country in an unsafe process. I really want to know if there's a service offer. Is the EKA administration positively recommended, the scientific bodies of the EKA, the respective bodies of the Ministry of National Defence against this change of course? I think it's a crucial issue. I think that just these European funding should be used to broaden the air means available for the EAFRD and for the country and flying with the operational responsibility and credibility of the Civil Aviation. This story obviously also relates to the debate that is very topical in this period and concerns the healthly safe relaunching of tourist activity. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be very honest. The picture you have given so far does not have the guarantees of a structured plan and a safe path towards the legitimate - obviously - attempting to rehearse the tourist economy. All people and all actors say so. Here I have a letter to the co-legislators, I think, to the Prime Minister of Halkidiki, the Hotel Association, the Association of Tourist Accommodation, the Camping Association, the Chamber and the Medical Association. They say that there is no safety data for this activity in a very popular area. Therefore, tourism starts without health-care conditions. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not going to speculate and invest in a health disaster. We didn't even do it at the top, in the first wave of pandemic, we won't do it now. But we have tabled proposals, ten specific proposals, which shield the islands, the tourist destinations, which also emphasise at the entrance gates, on the basis of the provisions of the international health regulation. Obviously there is particular, but there must also be a rating for sample checks, based on the country of origin, the increased prevalence of pandemic in the different regions, but above all there must be a system of early diagnosis of tourist destinations. It is not possible for the samples to go and come and be delayed three and four days. It is completely precarious and will be wasted on identifying possible cases, finding their contacts, being isolated and not being dispersed and therefore a danger of local lockdown, which will take us far behind. You do not have a clear epidemiological strategy here. Expose and even expose you the official correspondence of the Ministry. The Secretary-General of Public Health comes out and exchanges letters with the President of the EGE and says to him "what exactly are you doing? What logic do you have to test. With what strategy? On what criteria are the tests sold? Who pays?’ Is that possible? Is it a picture of serious management at the moment of this very sensitive issue? How, then, to have a security climate in health and health systems people, in local communities, but I think also in visitors. It takes on occasion the pandemic and the challenges it has created to make an effort to bring together at political level everyone in making a brave investment in the public health system, especially in the barren hardships and islands. We know that they are disadvantaged in terms of public structures and staffing. We need to introduce special incentives. The signal must now be given that there will be an intervention of perspective with permanent positions rather than a few subsidiary nurses and other staff and few doctors. That's not a health shield. There is a need for further incentives, a signal that there will indeed be a reserve from this pandemic, and we will not return, as soon as the big has passed, to the very normality of the debate on exposures to the private market, on privatization of parts of the ESS, on an active role for insurance companies, etc. I shall conclude, Mr President. I am closing the subject of the amendments. Colleagues Kostas Barkas and Nikos Syrmalenes have spoken about the amendment by the Ministry of Labour. We are voting against it. It is quite clear that it is part of a plan to deregulation the labour market under the pretext of pandemic. It is something that will unfortunately remain a permanent deposit and will greatly exacerbate people's incomes and rights. For the Health Ministry's amendment beyond the fact of the delay, it contains thirteen articles, many of which necessitated extensions of various regulations in the past are necessary. In this sense, we cannot vote in favour, even though we could vote in favour of some of them. It has an interesting provision for setting up an autonomous department of therapeutic protocols and registries of patients. We would really like to talk about that. We'd like it to be part of the bill. Let's give it our opinion. We made a lot of effort. You know that very well, Minister. Sixty-two treatment protocols entered the electronic prescribing system from the previous government when there was nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u196	Unlocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u197	Unlocked, locked, the point is, they're in. People worked from the scientific community, we worked with the scientific companies and we took a step. Because I often hear the colleagues from the Change Movement say about the e-prescription system that was the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u198	Not from the Memorandum. It's from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Loverdos, I'm saying that the e-prescription system in itself without treatment protocols, without filters, without rationalisation control mechanisms, is largely void. It's just giving you data, and you can check if you have to. So that's right. We could ask for details. But there are two other provisions here. One seems to be absolutely photographic. It's Article 4. It's absolutely photographic. It extends a transitional arrangement, which concerned companies that were licensed before 2011 and enabled them to develop laboratory infrastructures in areas not mainly used. Now he gives it to everyone. Our sense and some information from the market is that it concerns specific entrepreneurs. Absolutely photographic. Also, Article 13 wants a debate because I don't understand it exactly. And that's where it seems to me that there's an element of favorableness. It concerns the selection of directors' coordinators, etc. If there's any answer to that, I'm glad to hear it. 'Residents', therefore, in the amendment,'residences' in principle and is understood against Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u200	Mr Bukoros, Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are little convincing arguments on the part of the opposition about the treatment of pandemic at this stage. You know, ladies and gentlemen, the administration of such a matter, apart from its scientific aspect, also has political decisions, the political part. There everything is judged by the result. How all the world, the entire world, all the international media, can pay credit to Greece for managing the pandemic and for the representatives of Officerial Response here to say how one is done...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u202	What did we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u203	I'm not talking to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u204	Are you following me or aren't you watching me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Xanthi, who referred to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u206	Who are you referring to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u207	Please don't have a dialogue. Mr Buquoir, please address the Bureau. Do not engage in dialogue. I remind you of the time. Not yours. The twelfth is worth it. At 7 p.m. we have to hand over the Hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u208	I'm never talking personally. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u209	I didn't say personal. You are addressing the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u210	We are therefore making a political criticism here and say one thing about the pandemic. So the management of this result-finding phase will be judged. But it is a pity, the opposition, which is supposed to offer a consensus to address these issues, to change tactics, to show that it may wish or wish to turn into a "turn" in the management of this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u211	The exact opposite is said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Xanthos, why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Xanthi, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u214	You say things...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u215	They have spoken 15 colleagues since the morning. Why are you upset?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u216	We're not investing in the health disaster. What else can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Xanthi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, on a continuous holiday I do not think they favour the exchange of arguments
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u219	Do you want to talk seriously or say what we've prepared?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u220	No speculation, no attempt, nothing. The result is a result. Whether he likes it or doesn't like it. And that's not what the New Democracy says either Mitsotakis or Mr. Kontozamanis. From there and beyond great objections to this draft law were expressed in respect of Article 2. What does Article 2 provide for? It adopts further actions in the event that there are needs which cannot be predicted at present. We need to follow up on what we have said before, about what will happen and how it will be managed. In other words, the state is coming today to say that "I have these planes through the EKA to deal with a possible explosion of incidents combined with the current of tourism and the opening of tourism. I have, if you like, 'and a reserve, to be able to use private means of flight'. Is there any chance that there will be an aerospace station if the means available to the EAW are not fully busy? What if these instruments are busy, that is, what is the opposition telling us? Do not use a private means of transport, a private means of flight, when there will be an emergency? Because that's where your argument tends to be. From there on, I would say that the use of private means of transport if needs arise, which we all hope will not be present, is necessary because we are talking about the good of human life. Shouldn't there be a framework? Shouldn't there be a possibility? I am pleased that we all agree on Article 1 and on the acceptance of the donation of a great institution, of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which has to show a significant amount of work in recent years and has to show, as I have said in a previous position, a way of working with very good practices, which the public administration should copy. You know in this institution there are hundreds of demands to finance needs relating to Greek society, to finance innovative ideas and a thousand other two things that Greek society needs after the ten-year crisis and in the light of a better future, for which we are all struggling with and the current government is planning. These requests are also examined objectively and followed by their funding, without the public procedures, which are afflicting investment and financing. We all know that, you were government a while ago. So why not? Why not copy these best practices? Indeed, national benefactors played a major role in difficult times for their homeland. Their print is everywhere in the Greek capital and across the territory and a similar work continues this institution. We are also grateful for this work, which we are voting on today, to strengthen a very sensitive area, that of defending the greatest good, of human life by strengthening the EAW. But I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that such donations should, with a consensus, be used and, if you like, extended. That is exactly what the government has done, so that when a service is financed by an institution as a donation, it is complete and not in the middle of fuel. That is the meaning of Article 2. A number of things have been heard and the participation of the Air Force has been involved. I always call, speaking as a parliamentary representative on these issues, for there to be a consensus, a low tone and, above all, for Parliament's Step not to be used to exchange such information or such assessments. There is the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, where these debates take place and take place in a sufficient and complete manner. Nor can it be argued that if it is placed on a site or on a media site, we can reproduce it and reprint it and use it from the Step of the House. I think we all realize exactly what I mean. I don't need to expand any further. After all, the control and operational responsibility and the specific means for which we are discussing will again be held by the Air Force. I, too, trust the Civil Aviation Service if the need had arisen. However, the control and security we all seek when talking about airplanes will belong to the Air Force right there. I, personally if you ask me, believe that in times of risk upgrade we all know about and we are all talking about other fora - the dangers have been upgraded, we do not live in the quietest neighborhood in the world - we cannot be dismantling the Air Force, we cannot abuse our pilots or the means of flying. And if you want me to mention, Mr. Parliamentary Representative and former Minister of Civilian Representation, in history that it is not a social obligation of the Air Force and must offer, I will say that the Air Force is indeed offering. In the Greek state and the Greek people, it also belongs, as the Army offers with social actions and the Hellenic Navy and all the Armed Forces. But I would say that the highest task of the Armed Forces is not the social offer. This comes as an alternative to a second role. The ultimate task of the Armed Forces is to defend the country, to defend our national interests, to increase the power to prevent our country. So when we are going through difficult times like this, it is good not to be heterogeneous, to be employed as much as possible. That's my personal point of view. Of course, I respect your point of view, but it is our opinion and it will be judged. For the amendments tabled by the Minister for Labour, I will say that this is not an easy time after a pandemic of this kind. We know the economic footprint left by this pandemic not only in our country, but in the entire world. And what does the government come to do today? It provides again for the next difficult months. And how does he provide? Coming over to cover part of the salary. We would all like to cover not 100%, but if possible 110%. There must always be the necessary resources. Also, in my view, this amendment does something else very important. It reinforces, finances, premiums for insurance contributions. You know, in critical economic times, such as the one created by the coronary, in times of instability that can also be closed down by businesses, which we may also have losses, the state today comes to support the workers' premiums of EUR 200 million. Do you know what that means, ladies and gentlemen? That these funds will definitely go to the insurance funds. It is not certain that all enterprises will pay all the insurance contributions or create liabilities to the insurance funds in the next few years. We cannot know that, at least for the whole business. Consequently, it also has this beneficial status, this government decision. So what should the government do? Don't make sure he doesn't legislate? To say that in any case, those who go to rotating work will take half the wage and finish when we return to normality, etc.Huh? I'd hear a review of the coverage short. I would really listen to that criticism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you know that most of the time, it also requires greater resources. The resources are not inexhaustible. What government would not want to meet all the needs created through this pandemic that first led to the country's history in almost total blackout economic activity for a long time? I think in your days too, if it had happened, you'd want to cover everything. The other view I constantly hear: "To put all the money on the table forward" and on the other hand, not to know what the development will be and what the footprint will be. What are the developments from the pandemic, which has not been completed? The virus wasn't defeated. We've seen an increase in cases over the last few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u221	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll finish very soon. I should like to end, Mr President, with this. However ideologically, if you wish, it is not the good thing for certain political groups in Parliament, these donations and donations of institutions, but also for individuals, must continue, because our time really is not easy, because in critical historical times the Greek state has played an important role and of course it must prove capable of exploiting these donations. I close with something optimistic, since the national issues are of concern to us all. Of course, the signature of an EEZ with neighbouring Italy, the friend and ally Italy, is a good development that we all wish - I think all the wings of this Parliament - will continue with other neighbouring Mediterranean countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u223	Now the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, has the floor to close with his speech today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u224	Aren't we to blame, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u225	You're right, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u226	I shall speak at the end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u227	Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor for your dentistry. Obviously you want me to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be late. I will use two, three minutes of your time and speak specifically about the amendments. The first amendment was explained by our parliamentary representative and Mr Kegeroglu that we will not vote on it. As far as the second one is concerned, you are bringing thirteen articles to an amendment, with things that we have seen in the past. You give extensions and keep giving extensions and satisfying ruffles. I'm really surprised that Article 13 brought it back last time and you took it off. Now you've brought it back. We read carefully what it says in it, that the coordinators are suspended from being judged for six months. I don't know why you're doing this. Or he also said that the hospital commander assumes responsibility for making the judgments. Alone? Or will a joint ministerial decision be made to appoint a board, which will be attended by the Director of Medical Service, the Director of the Scientific Council, etc.Huh? At least it's a crisis based on some data. You can't let that go and go with a commander's decision. What's the commander, anyway? Does she have any idea of medicine? Most other things know. I would like to raise one more point and to finish, which is essential. I have received too many complaints from colleagues who go as patients to run a coronary test, because they have to do surgery in other hospitals, either in Athens or at Rio University, and do not accept them to do the test and send them to hospitals. In hospitals, however, they don't. Doctors say 'no', because you haven't calculated it within the unified hospital. There is a matter, Minister. That's a fact. It is observed lately. I have three or four incidents in this case. You need to see it and see it seriously. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs Athanasios has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, we too would like to express our dissatisfaction, as well as our objections, with regard to the last-minute amendments. They are late, with many articles and they include many social groups. The amendments are voted on in an article, thereby leading the opposition parties to vote against them, because they may disagree with an article alone. All this does not help our parliamentary work at all, giving the impression to anyone watching us that we are not paying this attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. There is no other rapporteur who wants to speak. Minister, you have the floor to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that today's performance, as in the committee yesterday, may I say that Mr Vassilis stole, today is a great day for the National Health System with the resolution of this law, which we dominate the great donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, because the National Health System and, in particular, the EKAV, the National Emergency Centre, is being upgraded and equipped with modern materials and instruments. We need to pay tribute, congratulations to the opposition, which has begun this effort, and I believe that according to projects under the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation's health initiative, it has also overcome ideological strangles, because it has once again won institutions like the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, which have made donations in the country. We are pleased that we have amended the contract which is currently being ratified by the National Representation and will shortly be available to the National Center for Emergency Aid. Two new modern helicopters and a few later planes will be available instead of repairing the helicopters that are enlisted. We'll have them this year, we'll have them faster. It's gonna be better than what we wanted to repair. It'll be better, because they'll fly all over the country. They'll be equipped with nightlights. They can perform rescues other than aerospace. We are proud too, because the Air Force executives are enthusiastic at this particular selection of helicopters that in a few months' time they will be in Greece. They are the ones whom we followed the advice and they assured us that it is worthwhile to get new helicopters from repairing the old ones. In addition, Mr. Paulakis said at a point in his speech that the Stavros Niarchos Foundation said "we can get you three helicopters", while at the same time the current Civic Opposition insisted on repairing the old ones. This convention - because it has been heard in this Chamber - is coming to show and demonstrate another fact, that there is no political will or intention of the Government to alienate the civil aviation from the use and flight of the air means of the EKA. On the other hand, if you read the contract in Article 2, you will find the close and contractual relationship and cooperation between the Air Force, the Ministry of Health and the EMCDDA, which is also our will. So it is acidifying to blame us for bringing a provision in order to privatise it in the future, for opening the ferry to privatize the EAW, when the Convention has been ratified, the close relationship between the State, the Ministry of Health and the Air Force has emerged. I would also like to reassure the workers in the EAEC and all the governments of Parliament who expressed concern about what will happen after 30 September when this provision expires. Allow me a parentheses. He said Mr Paulakis and the Opposition and many in this Chamber that there was such a provision and there was no reason to bring it. What did the previous government do? The self-evident thing. He thought that if there were no airplanes, we would be able to make contracts. What are we doing with improving the regulation of the previous government? We're giving the possibility of using Flight instruments with donations. So, Mr. Vassilis, each Mr. Vassilis can donate and will not get 13 million as was said in this Chamber. We know clearly and clearly the timeframe for the use of aircraft, which were not provided for in the previous provision, if necessary. I remind you that the pandemic is not over, the war is not over. We still have a way to go, and we need to be prepared. What if we don't have flying in? Would we then come to legislate? No, we are now legislating to be prepared, so that we can successfully deal with any incident, as we have so far, successfully tackled the coronary pandemic. The modernisation of the National Direct Aid Centre by these four airplanes, the two planes and the two helicopters, is part of a broader planning that we have to upgrade the EAW. We have said so many times that we are talking, aiming to create an integrated pre-private care plan where the EKT is interconnected with the autonomous emergency departments of hospitals in order to avoid misunderstanding, because this has been asked by Mr. Xanthos. We are updating it even more, we are considering solutions and proposals concerning training for staff, training, so that we can get rid of distortions of the past. It is distorting to be another thing the guide to the EKAB and elsewhere to be subject to an ambulance's driver in a health centre. We will also approach the country as a whole. Let's not forget the waterways. Mr. Paulakis clearly said that it costs us a transatlantic journey. Yeah, that's right. So we need to look at all this and it is in our planning and move quickly towards the implementation of this plan. Some things have been said about the health system. Mr Paulakis said so, and some of your fellow Members had already mentioned it in the previous ratification of the legislative act. I'll repeat my answer. The repetition is a mother of learning after all. Reference was made to the Hospital of Karpathos and the Hospital of Santorini. Let me remind you that in Karpathos we received duvets with malicious artifacts and fought in order to complete the administrative receipt of the project and complete the technical receipt, and within a short time the Hospital of Karpathos will be ready to open its doors. You referred to the Santorini Hospital. Do you know what we received at the Santorini Hospital? Of the planned medical staff only 30% of the posts were covered and 85% of the other staff were covered. He had cleaners and electricians in the hospital without having doctors, at least the news was covered in these specialties. You referred to both the bases of the aerospace apartments in Syros and the Aktiou and others. Let me say something about Syros and the Coast. They're middlemen's solutions. We could also fill the bases all over the Aegean and all over the country. And I'll tell you why they're middlemen. You know that better, Mr. Officers. In Syros the helicopter is large and cannot land on small helicals, while in Aktio, Agusta cannot fly night, half solutions simply to say that we have created bases. Mr. Syrmalene referred to an action taken by the National Public Health Agency over the past few days and I had the pleasure and honour of taking part in this action along with "Axion Hellas", a unique let me say non-governmental organisation and non-governmental government organisation. No funds were given in order to do this, it was completely free of charge for the National Public Health Organisation. The costs were covered by the own resources of ‘Axion Hellas’ and I really feel happy to be present in this action, because you see close people who offer voluntary money and personal time to reach the most remote part of the country and provide health services. It was not a pointless action, because we did tests on the population that might indeed be in most places that we visited, but we had to see, as we have said, that it is in our design, and the epidemiology of the disease. That is why it was the first time that an antibody test was performed through this action except molecularly. In the next few days, the tourist season begins and our country is prepared to welcome tourists, ensure the health of citizens in the country and tourists visiting it. There will be specific communications from the government. I would once again like to confirm that the government is not being reassured. The battle isn't over. We must all be committed to the objective that is no more than to overcome this crisis, which is more public health crisis. And as far as the health system is concerned, it relates more to public health than to medical care, because it has to do with behaviour. Behaviours are the ones that judge the outcome of battle, such as individual hygiene, distance keeping, hand washing, use of the mask. I am sure we will succeed in the summer and the health system is ready to respond to any challenge. We have strengthened it, we have created the conditions so that every citizen in Greece can have equal access to health services and we are sure that we will succeed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate is closed at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of the amendment from 3.6.2019 Individual Donation Convention for the project V of 6.9.2018 Donation Convention between the Foundation "Common Benefits of the Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of health infrastructure, ratified by n. 4564/2018 (A'170) and other provisions on patient aerospace’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, two articles, two amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u234	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u235	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u236	Following the completion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Definition of the draft law of the Ministry of Health from 21.5.20 Amendment from 3.6.2019 Individual Donation Contract for the project V of 6.9.2018 Donation contract between the Foundation "Stavros S. Niarchos" and the Greek State for the strengthening and upgrading of infrastructure in the field of health, ratified by n. 4564/2018 (A'170) and other provisions’ were accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and it reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u238	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-11-S1-commons.u239	With the consent of the House at 19.15' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 12 June 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: (a) topical questions (time of the Prime Minister) and (b) on the debate with number 22/11/27/2020 on the current question of Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left Coalition on the subject: "The problems in the management of the pandemic and the priorities for the next day in the National Health System".
