ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Happy New Year to everyone. Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 13 January 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 351/7-1-2020 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "To carry out the full implementation of the Transport Equivalent for Crete" programme. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 341/7-1-2020 topical question by Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: " Solutions for the operation of the Department for the Management of the Cultural Environment and New Technologies of the University of Patras based in Agrinio". 3. The 343/7-1-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Problems faced by classical sport in Thessaloniki and especially the National Kaytanzoglio Stadium". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 352/7-1-2020 topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sunday Malama to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The need for immediate action to repatriate Greek seafarers in Djibouti". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 344/7-1-2020 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To implement the Presidential Decree 45 on the professional rights of science and technology of materials of the University of Crete and Patras." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: “Union treatment of teachers, successful in the written tender of the 2008 SAP.” In his letter, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House: 'We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny, that the topical questions that will be discussed are as many questions as they arise.' They will therefore all be discussed. I repeat that you have all received the relevant document in the order. This is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on REQUESTS. The first question will be debated with number 350/7-1-2020 in the first cycle of MP 2 West Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgiou Tsipras to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Financial aid for flood victims in Kineta with care and for secondary residences". This question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Achilleas Karamanlis. Mr Tsipras, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good year, everybody. The topical question, Mr Minister, concerns the issue of the financial support for the floods in Kineta with care for the secondary dwellings. I mean, two things. Another time-limited question was before the Ministry of Interior to which Mr Lebanese responded here in the Chamber, which was limited to meeting the constant needs of natural disasters. That was the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. He did not commit anything concerning exceptional aid or secondary housing coverage, because this is mostly the issue, and he referred it to the Ministry of Infrastructure, to you. I would like to point out that there are two relevant joint ministerial decisions: One of 2019, 33862, on the basis of which there are relatively small needs for natural disasters. And there is a joint ministerial decision on 28-11-2017, 4155, which concerns emergency aid, is much larger than the sums, is 5,000 for private individuals and 8 000 for businesses, and above all - because this is the burning issue for Kinetta - they cover the issue of secondary residence. With the 'Gyrion' storm on November 25th and the subsequent flood in Kineta I know a few hundred people have been affected in Kineta. The specificity of Kineta is that they are 80% secondary dwellings, that is, about 80% of the affected are secondary dwellings, with the additional particularity that many of these dwellings - there are also letters from the flood patients - are used atypically and as permanent dwellings by many family members, that is, they live there all year round. In addition, on the basis of the ministerial decision of 2017 I read to you, which covered about eight flood cases throughout Greece, there were a few dozen municipalities, the issue of secondary residence was also covered. Lebanese was bound only on the part of the fixed needs and referred to the fact that the procedures in the municipality were completed in order to send applications to the Ministry of the Interior and referred to you the other two crucial issues. I would point out that for all the disasters to date - such as the summer floods in Halkidiki and the earthquake that took place in Parnitha, which were then particularly affected by Ano Liosia - there has been no compensation, as in the case of Kineta, nor fixed compensation. Please answer the question of emergency aid, if there is such an intention or decision of the Ministry, and especially of the secondary residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor to develop your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for your question, because I have the opportunity to clarify things in this bureaucratic labyrinth, which is the truth that it is very afflicting the citizens of the regions affected. So let us take things from the outset, to see what action is, the coordinated action of the Government as a whole, and of the Ministry of Infrastructure, following the catastrophic damage suffered by the Kineta region. We therefore have the flood on 25 November in the regions of the Western Attica. It is immediately instructed by the Ministry to carry out autopsies in the affected municipalities. The mandate is given within two days after the incident of the Ministry’s workshops, together with these municipalities, which had insufficient staff, are located in the area and are conducting autopsy in five hundred thirty-one buildings, where it was found that four hundred sixty-eight of them have been damaged. Then, as you point out, we have the joint ministerial decision to demarcate the affected areas and to grant housing aid. And this is about all buildings affected by the November flood and therefore all dwellings, regardless of whether they are first or secondary. We at the Ministry never made that separation. We are interested in restoring the damage to all the damaged buildings. You will allow me to clarify a few questions, because I can see from the text of your question that nothing has been done. The Ministry of Infrastructure does not have the power to grant compensation for the replacement of buildings or for small construction work. This responsibility lies basically with the Ministry of Interior. I've already contacted you, after your question, with Mr. Livano. I know you've asked a question and I've seen the answer you've received from the Ministry of the Interior. I am making it clear that the two ministries will be found and coordinated immediately to clarify this issue so that the compensation to be paid is given very quickly. However, how soon these allowances will be granted, it also depends on another factor, which we do not usually say is good to say it, because of the completeness of the files we submit to the Ministry. For the rest, such as those of allowances, unfortunately - and that is why I said at the outset that there is a bureaucratic labyrinth - it is the municipalities that will grant them, after having received exceptional funding from the Ministry of the Interior. So the Ministry of Interior, in accordance with the procedure, gives the money to the municipalities and the municipalities give the money to the beneficiaries. Before I close my prototype, you will allow me a little comment, since I see that your question contains a question about Mandra and about the region and the wider disasters. You tabled your question, Mr. Tsipras, on 7 January. Today, three days later, we are talking about it in the House. When we were in Opposition, I along with the New Democracy MPs in the former Attica, when I was a sector leader of infrastructure and transport, had tabled to your government two topical questions on the Mandra issue. The first moment after the catastrophic case of December 6, 2017 and the second on June 27, 2018. Do you know when these questions were answered, Mr. Comrade? Never! The government then never agreed to come to Parliament, as we are doing today, and to answer the serious questions raised by the opposition at the time. I say this in order to have an image, Mr President, who respects parliamentary procedures and who does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Tsipras has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I did not insult you on the question of whether you responded sooner or later. I too have tabled a question to the Treasury since September and still not answered, and I do not know whether it will be answered, but I think that is not our point. In your reply to the substance of the question, there are two issues openly. I understand that it is the Ministry of Interior that will approve the appropriations, but the Minister for Infrastructure, like the Minister's decision to grant emergency aid and include the second home in compensation, is very urgent. That is what you have not answered, namely whether there will be exceptional aid beyond the fixed term, such as the 19th Ministerial Decision, first and second, if the secondary residence is covered. I know that your workshops are examining all the damages, whether they are capital or secondary. After all - sometimes they do not know exactly what residence is, they cannot know it, but the question is whether there is a political will to have such a joint ministerial decision and when the people will receive the compensation, including the second home. That's what you haven't answered. Mr President, I would like to point out that the two major tragedies in both Mandra and Eye have literally taken place from tragedies to ministerial decisions and first compensation. It was much bigger tragedies, we had dead people. Fortunately, we did not have dead people here, but there is one issue that cannot be compensated for for months and years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u8	You will allow me to tell you, Mr President, that things are not at all like this and that you are causing me and, unfortunately, you are making me take a step backwards and consider what you were doing when you were government. Well, we should put things in a row. Following the catastrophic fires in August 2018, the SYRIZA government and the region Mrs.Douros did not do anything, but no work for the flooding of the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u9	Mandra?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u10	Kinetta, we're talking about Kinetta. We went there and the President-in-Office, Mr. Bourras, who is your fellow Member from the region there, and what did we see? We saw that you had not done any procedure for studs, that you did not carry out any anti-corrosion work. And what did we see? We saw that the northern part of Athens-Tripolios, the area in the downstream, came after the catastrophic fire and the flood and the National Road closed down. That was because you did not do the work you should have done as a region and as a government immediately after the fire. Therefore, it is important to move our fingers, because you are responsible for the inadequacy of the region and the then competent ministries which have not taken the necessary steps. To be clear, what did we do? We went there immediately, free passage of tolls, compelling the concessionaire to put all the machinery so that the road opens eight hours later, while the first predictions were the street of Athens - Tripoli to open within the next two days. So, to understand who can and will act effectively and who once again make fun of the world. Now, as far as your question is concerned, I have explained in my protagonist that the process is as follows: there is a disaster. The municipality comes in and asks the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Infrastructure, if it has not sufficient, to take out engineers to make all the housing controls. We did this immediately, and now there is a procedure that needs to be done to give all the necessary documents to the municipalities, the municipalities to go to the Ministry of the Interior and the credit to give the compensation. There is a political will for that. Procedures are specific, they move on the basis of all timetables. I'm in contact with the Home Office, and I assure you that those who deserve compensation will receive compensation. But we must not compare what you have done with the compensation and the disasters that took place two years ago. Don't go back, but at least it's good that we know what the process is and not try to do, if you want, populism or try to create false impressions when a disaster occurs. Because we did not do that as an opposition, and I am sure that neither you, as a new politician, want to go into a controversy procedure on an issue that I think is relatively clear. So, in reply to you once again, political will exists to compensate those who are entitled to compensation and will be compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, can I have the floor for ten seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u12	No, no. It's a process that doesn't have a tritology. Say it privately to the Minister. We move to the second with number 346/7-1-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Provision of a node to connect the road to the new airport with the provincial road Arkalochori - Kastelli". Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I have two questions today which will both be discussed in this area, for which the convention on the creation of the new international airport has already been ratified by Parliament. We therefore have a project that has been on the tracks and two important issues is road access, but also the wider specific spatial area with land use, as it is called, in relation to the sustainable and rational development of the region. For your authority, Minister, I have the question of linking the existing provincial road to the road that will connect the airport to the South Axis and the possibility, prediction and construction of a connecting node, in order to serve all those on the provincial road in relation to their entrance or exit from the airport and thus to have better access to the area. The question is, then, whether you intend and how to take care of this road connection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr Kegeroglu, thank you very much for your question, although you will allow me to say and you will understand from my answer that it does not have much to do with time, because this work has, as you quite rightly said, been through a great deal of suffering. So let's start over. With Law 3710/2008 the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs of 2008 undertook the completion of the study on the competition in Kastelli. Subsequent procedures were followed for procedures, design approvals, delays, until again the Government of Samaras in 2014 to approve a public tender in May 2014. Due to the 2015 elections, the process was frozen, like all major works, and the competition for Kastelli was postponed. Now listen to what's going on, so we can have a full picture. The temporary contractor was set on 30 May 2017 in a process, Mr Kegeroglu, which had been postponed, as you well know, eight times. By July 2017, within two months, the contractual documents should have been finalised. Nevertheless, the process has been continuously extended and we have finally completed the procedures one year later. What did the New Democracy Government do for the first three months? First we did the obvious. We have taken years, namely the final adoption by DIGICOM, by Mrs Verstagen, so that the work on the airport of Kastelion can finally be started, namely the so-called precursors. On 22 January, in a few days' time, EIB will sign the loan that the Greek State will receive for its participation, that of 180 million and that will begin in February or March. We are now going to those specifics you have asked. According to the premeditated road connection, Mr Kegeroglou, the southern road section of the project, the section, which will connect Kastelli to Heraklion - Viannos road, is planned to be connected to the Arkalochori-Gazepi Mylos provincial road. This connection will be made through a node level. At the same time, the provincial road Arkalochori - Gezepi Milos will be connected in two points and these will be connected through a level of hubs with the southern perimeter road leading to the new airport. In any case, the final studies will be submitted after the start date of concession, Mr Kegeroglu, in May 2024. The concessionaire must have completed this procedure within sixty months, as ratified by Law 4612/2019. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. So what needs to be understood is that, for both the unequal node that connects the southern part to Heraklion - Viannos and the three positions of the Arkalochori - Gazepi Milos road, we have the promelettes and expect final submission after the start of the concession. But now I come to the part of the expropriations that is just as important as not to say more important. The expropriations, according to a government decision, have proceeded with the procedure laid down in Article 7a of Law 2782/2001. As you know, this procedure is a process for projects of great national importance and so we do not have the delays we usually have in the case of appeals. I would then like to inform you that all the necessary procedures have already been completed on the part of the Ministry. In addition, on December 27, 2019, the Ministry signed a payment order of approximately 892,000 euros, almost one million, which relates to the portion of compensation and expropriations. And I gave the Ministry's services the direct order for payment to the beneficiaries of this amount. In fact, I am presenting this decision to you in the Minutes, as was stated in the 'DENMARK'. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] As regards the time horizon - which is also your question - the implementation of projects should therefore be completed within sixty months of the start of the concession, i.e. by May 2024 at the latest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u16	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u17	Minister, this work has the luck - but it also has misfortune - to be a project that all the major political forces have agreed to and, above all, to have agreed on by most social and development actors in Crete. There are also some minority opinions, but I think the large majority has agreed. But he also has the misfortune, first of all, to have fallen into the crisis, and that added his own problems. And the problem we have for all the major projects - I think - in our country over time is not to lead wider spatial planning, which must exist to build up a major project that will create conditions for development. But at the same time if there is no design, it can create distorted, unregulated growth. So in this area, there has been no spatial planning, and this is the next question for the Ministry of the Environment, but you are also involved because you are the project owner at least in terms of its promotion. The issue of expropriations is very important. You know there are protests. I have made a specific proposal for all those who are owners of agricultural land - because the agricultural productive character of the region is overthrown - depending on the proportion of the land which the current producer is alienating. If, in other words, a farmer gets 100% of his property, he has no power to study or change his profession or to learn to do something else now. So in these cases, depending on the percentage, they should have an additional care from the State. I have made a specific proposal, depending on the rate of increase what the court decides. But that is something you need to study, see it. No expiry date, i.e. you have time to see it, to have fair expropriations. In the road system now poorly, in my view, from the airport to the southern axis there are no two lanes per direction and a spacious separator. Unfortunately, it's not predictable. Maybe it's something we need to see again. At the same time, I have to say that there is provision for the linking hub to the South Axis of Crete, as it is said. It's actually Heraklion - Vianno in the area there. There's this prediction. Since the concessionaire, the contractor has given priority to this department to start construction now, because it facilitates the construction period of this road section, so I am now putting the issue of building a node at the junction at the intersection, at the intersection of the motorway to the South Road with the Provincial Road Arkalochori - Gazepi Milos - Kastelli. The fact that there are premeditated is positive. So it is a first point that we can see how it is done from there. Let me clarify, however, why I do not have that in mind, if the creation of the node at this point is also a responsibility for the concessionaire, or if it is a responsibility of the state. And I'm not talking about the node provided for by the contract - and I'm telling you again - the airport road to the main axis of Heraklion - Viannos, but on the site that we have a connection to the provincial road. That's my question. And I would also ask you to make a contribution according to the evolution of the other question with the Ministry of the Environment, in order to function as a serious state, to become the FAWC, to become the special spatial planning for land uses, so that we do not have bad developments in the next period in relation to the development of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. To answer the interesting questions you raised to me, Mr Kegeroglu. First of all, I would like to say again and say, without wishing to bless the beards of the government, that this work is now on the ground. And for the first time, we had this paradoxical, Mr President and Mr Kegeroglu, that is to say, that the project has been met since 2017, that the loan has been approved by the European Investment Bank, that is, the loan that finances the participation of the Greek State in this project, which is a classic concession project, and that KEME has not been in consultation with DIGICOM for a year and a half to get the green light to start the preparatory work. We managed to resolve this in the first quarter. We have succeeded in calling on the Vice-President of the European Investment Bank who, as I said, will be coming, as I said, most likely to sign the loan agreement which if we do not sign the project does not start, to say things by their name, and to move on to the project. Now on these specific issues, because it has happened as an Opposition at that time, Mr Kegeroglou, to remember with Mr Aygeakis that area and to sit with the inhabitants of the region and listen to their concerns about the expropriation issue, I will make a more general comment, which, however, has nothing to do with the wider region. Unfortunately, one of the reasons for the long delays in major projects, the major infrastructure projects, has to do with the fact that we are entering a wave of bureaucracy especially on the issue of expropriations. Here you will allow me to say that they are also responsible for local actors and politicians and citizens themselves. Because when a major project is done, and often too often they demand overcompensation, so that these projects are delayed and stuck and, in short, we cannot do the big projects the development projects that the country needs. In this area, however, you will allow me to fully agree with you and tell you that in many areas, where, in fact, the main economic activity is the agri-food and agricultural sector, there must certainly be an important consideration, in some cases, if some compensation is to be paid quickly and given above. As I told you, however, we have already signed the first portion of the allowances, we are going under the 7A procedure, so that we are not delayed, and we are at the disposal of all the actors to discuss this issue. Now, on the issue of the dividing of the road you said, here you will allow me to tell you that there is one issue. The question is that we cannot always build quadruple roads, and here we have to agree with the European Commission and the JASPERS, who ultimately approve the roads, and make sure that these procedures are correct and that a two-lane road can be financed with two lanes and diagrams. We will look at this, but unfortunately or happily, the law and the concession agreement said when it was lodged in the House, and what you understand means adjusting the concession contract, which means that at this stage the state is tied behind the back, because we cannot easily change it. As for the node to which you referred, you will allow me to come back. I have the impression that it is the responsibility of the Ministry, because it is not, as you quite rightly said, in the concession agreement, but because I do not want to answer something for which I am not 100% sure I will come back very soon, Mr Kegerolgos, to answer your specific question, if you want it in writing, so that everything is well established and as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u20	I'll give you another one then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u21	We move to the third with number 342/7-1-2020 a top-level question from the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The situation at the General Hospital of Thorakos "The Salvation". Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. There is talk of the question of the problems facing the General Hospital of Thorakos "The Salvation". It is well known that it is the only hospital in Attica that handles mainly respiratory diseases and the only one for the respective specific conditions throughout the country and the situation in this hospital, with the responsibility of policies that have been implemented successively by governments in recent years, is tragic and has reached "in no way". For example, over the last decade five pulmonary clinics have been closed and recently another one has been merged. From the inadequate organogram of the hospital, from the seventy-three posts of specialist doctors scheduled to serve for forty-one, and has been recruited since 2010. Similarly huge are the shortcomings in qualified doctors, where the majority of posts remain vacant, while at the same time in front of all the hospital's subscribing and the huge problems facing the flow of incidents in recent years are increasing. I would mention to you, for example, that in 2018 there were twenty-seven thousand patients on an emergency basis and eighteen thousand on external medical services. Imagine a huge amount of management, if you want, with cases of patients. Apart from this, particularly subsecution, but also shortcomings in equipment, medical devices, etc., which exist, whether they are obsolete or incomplete, create problems during the treatment of emergencies in on-call and general operation. In the antifungal department, a reference centre for Greece, for our country, there are two specialist doctors, a department that has to deal with not only new cases, but also the monitoring of treated cases of treatment, tuberculosis, i.e., but especially those of tuberculosis which are complicated. On the state budget, there is sub-financing. It has been dramatically reduced in recent years and from 63 million euros in 2010 to 24 million euros and is constantly falling or infrastructures are in a marginal situation at risk and for their safe operation. There is also the question - I am going back to the anti-physical section for the incorrect operation and organisation, if you like, but also for the upgrading of chamber installations for the resistant cases of tuberculosis. In other words, there is talk of negatively pressed chambers which have specific technological specifications on the basis of scientific data. On the basis of all that, and others that we can say about this hospital, the questions, Mr President, are not whether the clinics, which have been closed up so far, will of course be a precondition for this, and the hospital, respectively, to equip itself with all the necessary medical equipment, to maintain, if you like, the infrastructure necessary for the proper functioning of the hospital and the provision of high-quality services to patients, based on the technological and scientific capabilities of our time, and of course the proclamation and recruitment of permanent staff with stable and complete work of all the specialists in the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u23	The State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, has the floor to answer Mr. Vice-President's current question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Lambroulis, hospitals of the size of "SOTRIA", which serve a large number of citizens on a daily basis, are at the forefront of our design and actions. You quite rightly said that the hospital "SOTRIA" is the only one for respiratory diseases in Attica. Indeed, it is a reference centre in relation to the management of pulmonary incidents, and that is what we want to strengthen it and upgrade it as a reference centre. Of course, the priority should not be to increase pulmonary clinics only, but also to develop new sections at the "SOTRIA" hospital in general and also how to develop pulmonary clinics in the wider area of Attica that we all know is suffering. We all know that the southern sector, South Attica, has no pulmonary clinic. The hospital in Voula cannot serve pulmonary incidents in the south. So what do I mean? We plan to upgrade the facilities provided by the hospital "SOTRIA" mainly through the development of new clinics, but also with a wider development plan of pulmonary clinical clinics in Attica hospitals, so as to fully meet Attica's needs in pulmonary incidents and, of course, to strengthen and enhance the role of the hospital "SOTRIA" in relation to pulmonary incidents at a reference centre. I would also like to say this to what you said in your question: the budget for the hospitals of the National Health System will be increased this year, i.e. the expenditure limits, and, of course, we need to take account of the measures that we are taking to contain expenditure and to rationalise expenditure, particularly through the new system of commissions, which we will implement, which will give budgetary support to hospitals in order to manage more effectively and efficiently the resources available. Indeed, the 10th Pulmonary Clinic and the CVA are conceived at the hospital, but of course, we should not only look at the number of clinics operating in the hospital, but we should also see the completeness in order to provide citizens with full service at the emergency departments as well as at the hospital's clinics. Therefore, we need an overall strategy which we are preparing. And because I have said - and you - in the emergency departments, I have to tell you that no notice has ever been cancelled for these departments. The appointments of doctors in emergency departments have been completed. The ten new appointments to the hospital's LAGs are under way and will strengthen this TLP. And I must stress once again that these doctors will remain in emergencies and will not go to hospital clinics. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I will have to take some time from my dentistry. In relation to the on-calls, we believe that with the recruitment of ancillary staff and the disposal of pneumonologists by other structures of Attica and the Primary Health Care there is a safe invention of the hospital. I must tell you, however, that at the moment a work group study is under way in order to study the overall on-call system in Attica, not only in pulmonary cases, but also in other cases. Of course, it has a specific system of pulmonary invention, because the hospital's "SHORIA" faces the greatest in these kinds of cases. We will upgrade the hospital's building infrastructure, because indeed too many buildings are in a bad state. There is a comprehensive and concrete plan. Already, we have announced the operation of an X-ray therapeutic center in the hospital "SHORIA". Of course, there is a specific study, so that we can see the replacement of biomedical equipment in this hospital, which has grown older, such as equipment in those parts that make sleep studies or in those that make bronchoscopies. Finally, I must say that we will develop synergies with hospitals and hospitals, which are in the wider area of the healthcare region. I shall mention a very characteristic example. We all know that the hospital "SOTRIA" is adjacent to the General State Hospital "GEORGIOS GENNAMAS". Therefore, specific synergies can be developed. Of course, we will be able to get rid of paradoxical and distortions that stir up the operation of the hospital "SHORIA". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and an attendant of the 10th Municipal School of Aigaleo. The House welcomes you [[Applause from all sides]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-four students and students and two teachers attending from the 7th Kallitheas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Theodoros Rusopoulos, asks for a one-day absence leave abroad for Monday 13 January 2020. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u26	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Vice President, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. He told us about designs. For years we have been listening to designs, not only on the occasion of the question or debate today about the hospital "SOTRIA", but also on the other hospitals. The question is that staff, workers - if you like - as a whole in public hospitals struggle, fight, claim permanent and stable work for all, and not elastic forms, such as subsidiary, etc. However, this policy has been applied for many years by all the governments, of course, for the respective government, for the system - if you will - so that it does not put a penny for staff and, of course, force - because this is provided for - hospitals, whether through programmes or own resources, to pay this subsidiary, in this case. The state is therefore withdrawn from funding as a whole and leads hospitals, on the basis of the strategic partnership between all parties in this direction and the health section, to recover resources from the sale of services, either directly from the patients who are forced to pay from their pockets or from the insurance funds. And on this basis, this policy has been implemented successively for years by all governments, as we have said. The sub-financing is still under way. Subscribing has hit'red' and if you like, and in total not only 'SYRIZE'. We have said that in the previous part-session in plenary and in related speeches. Here two thousand staff are leaving hospitals at the beginning of 2019 and no replacement is provided, because it is of course retired. At the same time, the shortages in doctors only exceed seven thousand, while the remaining staff account for thirty thousand. Even this is on the basis of the current inadequate organograms of hospitals. And if you want other evidence, over 20% of the public hospital workers work with the unacceptable status of flexible working relationships. In Attica, for example, not only with regard to "SHOIR" 30% of surgical tables is not used due to a lack of staff. Similarly, the problems in beds of intensive care units, newlywed units and care units. And all of this outlines even lower quality medical care for the people, much behind the possibilities - we stress it - offered by science, technology, and by the specialized staff that exists today. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] And of course, not all of this is random. They represent a perpetuation of all these problems in staff and infrastructure. Reducing state funding, cutting wages and saying, all this is part of a plan for the operation of public health units with private economic criteria, as I said before, business units, on the one hand, with less and cheaper staff and, of course, more and more needs and operating costs will be covered by the sale of services. So the New Democracy Government, on the road opened by the previous SYRIZA government, succeeding the previous governments, is planning to extend partnerships with the private sector in the name of public hospitals, since there is also a consensus on health. Now look at this. You, like the previous government, are showing the cause of the problems in public hospitals, which are indeed business in general in the health sector, as a medicine to solve problems in the public health sector. We say clearly that this is indeed the result of capitalist development, which you too are zealously serving, like previous governments and all urban parties, but which requires the perpetuation of the crackdown on the rights of our people and on the issue of health, that is, the rights that are left over. That is why we say that there is no need for any waiting, no reassurance from the workers, not only in health, but in the whole, to organise their struggle, their claims, claiming what belongs to them and, of course, their opposition to the policy being applied, which is neither fixed nor corrected, nor overturned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, because you spoke of paper designs and exercises and suggestions, I must stress that in the very short time the government, despite the very poor situation it received in the health system, has shown concrete results in the health sector, mainly in hospitals, ensuring the proper functioning of hospitals by the end of 2019. It was really a battle given since the first day in which we took over the country's governance, given the budget for the current year 2019 and the decisions that were being implemented. Since you have also referred to recruitment issues, I must tell you that the recruitment of both medical staff and other staff, nurses and other staff, and, of course, recruitment and subsidiary staff, have already been initiated. We have stressed many times that we want permanent jobs in the National Health System and the subsidiary medical system provide only temporary solutions, which we do not want. And that is why we are planning to convert supplementary doctors' positions to permanent posts of caretakers, because the system needs to be injected by young doctors, so that we can give a breath to hospitals, who really face a large wave of fleeing from retired doctors, but also enable young doctors to stay in the country and join the National Health System. With regard to the public-private partnerships, to which you have referred, I must once again stress that we are safeguarding the public health system. We want the citizen to have access without charge to health services, which unfortunately is not the case, because we all know that Greece is the third country among the OECD countries to private health expenditure. Therefore, we cannot talk about a public health system and under no circumstances should we confuse private life with the state. Public-private partnerships are a financial instrument which enables us to finance services at no cost for the citizen who comes to the health system. This is clear and I must stress once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u30	We are completing the cycle of topical questions, for today, with the first under number 347/7-1-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Let us finally begin the procedures for the implementation of the Plan of Spatial and Settlement Open City (OPCW) of the Municipality of Minoa Pindas". Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. As I had the opportunity to develop during the debate on my previous question to the Minister for Infrastructure, the great work of the new international airport in Kastelli has already entered the tracks of implementation. It is very important today that the loan contract will be signed here in Greece on 22 January by the European Investment Bank and all the other communications that the Minister has made to us. But there is a huge gap, a deficit which has a responsibility to cover both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of the Environment, which is no other than the broader spatial planning required in any case when they are installed, when such large-scale projects are made. It is not possible to build the airport, operate the airport, and there is no FLOB in the wider area. We have been asking for this for five to six years, especially since 2014, which has been the official last declaration on the implementation of the project and has been made by the local community. And it's not a classic PCI of a municipality that's a municipality's responsibility to do it. Here comes the state, the state, and says that in this area I will install a project of national scope, the new international airport. This huge work, therefore, cannot be the responsibility of the municipality - or only of the municipality, if you like - to welcome it with the spatial plan that the municipality will call. I would therefore like you, Minister, to express to us the will of your Ministry to come up with a plan for spatial planning which will first be studied and created, to be implemented in the region, so as to ensure that development is beneficial to the inhabitants and to the environment, but also to the wider socio-economic activities in the region and in Crete. This requires funding from the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, from the budget or the Green Fund, or in any way you and the Ministry of Infrastructure are judged. That is why we want you to answer us today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u32	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin with a clarification. The FAOs have been repealed since 2014. The OPCW position of similar projects is the local spatial plan and the specific spatial plan. The difference between the two is procedural, but with regard to the final result they are identical, that is, they can do either. In both cases it ends up with a design which defines land uses, construction conditions, construction restrictions, urban interventions and traffic and others, which are necessary for the full organisation of a region. Now, the development of either a local spatial plan, or a special spatial plan, in this case of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas has an estimated cost - but it will eventually result - of EUR 500,000. We know that because we have investigated it. The accelerating of these projects - local and regional - can be alternatively either the municipality, the region, or the Ministry of the Environment, or in the case of large investments such as the investment entity. Anyone can start it, be the expeditor and fund it. But it is always the Ministry of the Environment, because these plans are approved by a presidential decree at the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment. Where are we? What's happened in the past? In July 2018, the Ministry of Infrastructure sent a document to the Ministry of the Environment, which said that the great work of the airport in Kastelli is under way and that we do not have the possible problems that Mr Kegeroglu has mentioned - with which I fully agree, of course, as there is a risk that land use and land locations will be escaped - a urban planning for the area must be carried out. The Ministry of Infrastructure's document said that we are asking the Ministry of the Environment to take the initiative, but if the Ministry of the Environment does not take the initiative, we are prepared to finance it. Following this document from the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Municipality sent the Ministry of Infrastructure a request to finance the Ministry of Infrastructure this study, as it had undertaken to do with the commitment. The study is referred to as PLOs, but it does not matter, because it is essentially what we are saying. None of this happened. In other words, neither the Ministry of the Environment reacted in some way, since of course it is a huge state project and, therefore, the state is responsible for the organisation of the region nor the Ministry of Infrastructure. There was no development. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We, as a new government, have been in direct contact with the municipality since September and have met two meetings in Athens. We've at least done one, but if I remember correctly, there are two meetings on this subject. We are in full agreement with the municipality on the steps that I will now mention and which need to be promoted. Should I leave them for dentistry, the rest of what we're gonna do? It will take two, three minutes again, that is, the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u34	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u35	Good, Mr. President. So the first decision we have taken is to proceed with a special spatial plan rather than a local spatial plan. Geographically it will cover the entire municipality, but the special spatial plan is a quicker process. That's why we're choosing it. Costs are about the same. Maybe it's a little less in the special spatial plan, because it gets faster. What do we do now? The specific spatial plan shall be carried out in two stages, one pre-approval stage and one final approval stage. The second phase approves the final study with four sub-studies, urban, geological, strategic environmental impact study and water-restriction study, if any. Normally, these stages proceed sequentially. Pre-approval comes first and then final study and final approval is made. We have decided the following. In order to speed up the process - we will be in agreement with the region - a pre-authorisation study will be awarded immediately - this is low-cost and can be done quickly - which we consider that by June, perhaps even July, it will be completed and pre-approved and pre-approved will include the main axes for land use and conditions of construction. This includes pre-approval. So, since summer, we have the general skeleton of the region's organization. One will therefore be able to consider - and the airport itself, but also other stakeholders - that this is the general skeleton of land use in the region. At the same time, a study of the final approval, which, as I have said, has a high height and therefore has to follow the normal procedure, will also be launched at the beginning of February. The period of completion of the competition procedure is six to eight months depending on the objections. From the day we have a contractor, it will take about a year to reach the draft presidential decree, which will institutionalise the full planning of the area. The cost of the final study, which, as I told you before, is 500,000, will be borne by the Ministry of the Environment. We already have funding. So that's what I wanted to say. If there's anything else, I'd be happy to answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that we have good news, and so have you. There is a desire on the part of the Ministry to go ahead with the plan for housing and spatial planning, i.e. study, pre-approval and approval. Of course, it is very right that your view should be made a special spatial planning and because of time and because it has special characteristics. It is not just a simple case, it is precisely because of the work and the great scope of the airport and therefore a special study is needed. To say what has changed substantially in terms of the procedure, as you have said, since 2014, but it is the same thing. We've been asking for this to happen for five years. Why were we asking for it? Because there are already problems, Minister. And problems can become big problems. So we want too quickly - and it is fast what you said about the moment - to give the preliminary study - the first phase - in order to commit land use and to have a first impression of what we can do and where we need to do it. That's very important. I do not want to go into more detail, but by decoding what you said, I think we can have a result, as long as the first phase takes place in the time you said, so that things don't get out of hand. Because you know that afterward city plans that want an act of implementation, break-ups and stories or anything else that has to do with managing a situation that has been caused by unrealistic growth are not easily managed. So what we have been asking for and asked for, but the municipality in one way or another has expressed it for a long time, is that it has to be implemented immediately and here we are, so that we can discuss again and see exactly what is going to happen. Minister, I would very much like your commitment to the timetable, but above all to the funding. Did you say that it will be ensured or exists within the budget and will simply be named in the context of the distribution of the Ministry of the Environment's budget? Ministry of the Environment or Green Fund? You can explain them to us. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Minister, you have the floor to fill out what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank the honourable Member for his very constructive remarks. Indeed, this is an issue that does not have a close political dimension, it concerns all Cretans, and not only is it a good thing that we are all at the same wavelength. To answer the specific questions you raised on financing, I would like to tell you that it is indeed guaranteed by the Green Fund. And it is from the Green Fund, because it is easier in procedural terms, so that we do not delay. So there's funding. The reason why we are waiting until the beginning of February is because, during this period, in January, we are making some simplifications of the standards. Simplifications in the specification do not impair the substance, but make it possible to promote both local spatial plans and specific spatial plans. That's what happens now, they're ready and at the beginning of January we'll be ready, to start both procedures, pre-authorization and competition for the final study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 5/4/10-12-2019 by the Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Papoutsis, Mr Papoutsis, Mr Papoutsis, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro Stavros Pavlou Arahovitis, Vasilios Kokkali, Olympia Tyri, Theodoras Jakri, Dimitrios (Takis) Charitou, Elissavet (Betas) Skouta, Eleftherios Avramaki, Ireni - Helen Agathopoulou, Trysopho Alexiadis, Athanasias, Evangelos Pastoulou, Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti, Anna Vasilis, Socrates Bardakis, Vasilis, Kalliopis Vetta, Dimitrios Vitsas, Ollas Gervasi, Anastasiasia (Natasiasia), Ioannis Giolasin Zhembek, Nikolou, Emmanou, Ekrathanos Kalanissiou (Valanisiakos), Kalanissiou (Valanisiasiasiasiasias), Aristouloou (Valou) Charis (Valonousiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasias), Akou, Ioloou, Akou, Erithisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Irasiasos, Irasiassos, Akrasos, Irasiasos, Irasiasos, Irasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Elosos, Irassssos, Arissos, Elosos, Elosiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Arisiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasiasos, Elosiasiasiasos, Elosiasos, Elosos, Elosos, Aris The floor will be taken by the first questioner, SYRIZA's MEP Mr. Stavros Arachovitis, for ten minutes with five minutes of denture. When I call on any speaker at the Step who may want to incorporate both secondary and, above all, the last speakers, who have less time, please tell me in advance. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will have a good year, with health, productivity, for the benefit of our society and our people. Starting with my speech and making a brief criticism of the overall work of the New Democracy Government in these months of governance, it can be condensed: firstly, deprivation of the social dividend by those who have it, really, need and at the same time abolish the thirteenth pension, which you also voted for and made a commitment that it will not be abolished. Secondly, a "family" Christmas market. Thirdly, order and security on television, but chaos in neighborhoods and villages. Fourth, roussefetia, service to party friends, party state of excellence with false degrees, inability to manage the refugee problem, disobeying foreign policy, culminating in the fiasco of the Prime Minister's meeting with the President of the United States. With regard to the accountability of the government's acts in the agricultural sector over the seven months that you have the responsibility of exercising policy, this is characterised by indifference in the hot issues faced by farmers, farmers, fishermen and all those who produce in this place, ignorance of the deep causes that determine the course of agricultural issues and at the same time the service of party friends here. You are favouring specific economic interest groups, indifferent to people who are struggling to survive and produce under adverse conditions and insecure weather and economic conditions. You seemed totally unprepared to deal with issues and showed an incredible handshake and amateurism in many of them. So this tactic leads to a constant accumulation of problems, an increasing discontent in the agricultural world that eventually reaches, leads to a dangerous suffocation. And we have seen that all those who have been in the world these days, in society, in the cafes and in the villages, where these problems are the main topics of discussion. You gave the Ministry a press conference yesterday, obviously ahead of today's debate. Yes, sir! You have filled the world with vague promises and "will" and you think that with these communication terrestrials, Mr Minister, you will turn attention to the real problems of farmers. Uh, well, I think you're deep-nighted. Problems want action and they want solutions. They do not cover under fine but hollow words, vague promises and ideas that in the end put the hand of real producers deep in the pocket. So your indifference is the indifference you have shown all this time in the question of the cursor of the price of olive oil and edible olive. Despite the fact that we had submitted a timely question to you that we discussed and impacted the risk code, despite the fact that we had already sent a letter to the European Commission with a supportive haunting and despite the fact that we had put the matter to the Council and again to the Commissioner responsible, Mr Hogan, then, requesting exceptional support for the sector, the same logic of the act that characterises the current government is dominated here. And you rushed to celebrate the duties, without knowing the consequences and that the second cycle is coming. So what did the Prime Minister say in America about this matter with the officials he met? I will submit at the end to the minutes all that proves what has been done so far. And don't tell us, of course, that the price does not determine it, does not take it up or is taken down by a Minister. Obviously, but the point is what you do when you go to the Council of Ministers and see the other countries, such as Spain, claiming and succeeding and our country simply being observed. Really, Minister, what do you do when you go to the CFP Councils? Where are the alliances that we had troubled for the budget? We see one - one disintegrated. Where is the defensive line for very small and small farms? And you forgot about her. Where are the alliances for external convergence? Unexistent! However, there is no excuse left in the process of your days of the Rural Development Programme. Since July, you have only paid the balancing with the new delimitation of the areas, without any problems and what was compatible over our days, critical studies for the new programming period have not yet been met after six months. Thirty-two irrigation works, signed in May, await six months of the tender. Despite the storm of your misleading statements about the improvement plans and here the result is the absolute gap. Of course, no new notice from the Ministry of Rural Development! You had a reserve from our government of EUR 253 million, precisely because we have exceeded the performance targets, but you are driving with the delays in agricultural policy to the dawn. Even the liquidity fund - which the rural world is so thirsty for liquidity after the sale of the Agricultural Bank - that you found it ready and that is progressing at a turtle rate. I certainly hope that you do not accept Mrs Bakoyannis's view that the Greekisations are carried out by small farmers in milk. But farmers should not only be concerned by such statements. The organized interprofessional project is now revealed so that it can finally open the way with the coup d'état redeposit of the old split proposal to create interprofessional feta. This unacceptable process serves you "photographics" specific large milk-industrials, while putting the farmers, the smaller cheese shops and the cooperatives in the band. We hope that you will not dare complete this crime and, indeed, we would expect an answer: What were the interests that were dissatisfied with the consensus reached in April, in the spring of 2019 and found those willing to do their miserable game on the back of the producers? And I'll testify to that in the Minutes. You demand, Minister, constantly with your statements the de minimis tool, which is also superlative as a germ. He arrived in December to find out that it could be a tool to alleviate the problems of farmers, who really need it. You've found it a little late. Slowly because in the time you had until the end of the year, you only absorbed 20 million, while you had the opportunity to use much more for the benefit of the people who have actually suffered damages not covered by the ELGA, such as the customs producers. You didn't support the industry. Sugar Industry is a typical example that you have been responsible for so many months, and you have not proceeded with a solution, as well as BFL which has a serious problem these days. At the same time, however, you have imposed a capital tax on fishing, which is a raisin because it is not calculated on the basis of the tick or catches of the fishermen, but is done on the basis of the length of the vessel. That is why it is a joy and even a joy that comes when fishermen face very great pressure from both climate change and neighbouring fishing fleets, and we all know what I mean. You also found a way to extend the fishing with the powerful gear of the vidzotrata, and the management was normally over on 31 December. Is the European Commission aware of this? And we're going to insurance. The initial statements by the Minister for Labour on the double-checking of the premiums to self-employed people, so both farmers and the opposition have risen up, the press and your own MPs, who have moved on to questions. In the end, you admitted that the Katorugalou law, which you have been so swamped, leads to a lower and more reasonable premium for the majority of farmers, and that is why you agreed to maintain it, by making a spectacular cybersis yet. It is questionable, however, that the precise planning, if any, of such secret future increases and the calculation of the farmer's pension with the new insurance that you are supposed to bring. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will only need two more minutes. In tax, however, coal was the treasure for farmers. You knew and you forgot that it was the SYRIZA government that introduced the three tax exemptions for farmers. So the tax concessions you have brought do not at all touch the majority of farmers' main professions. I would remind you, however, that in addition to the already established three tax exemptions, the protection of subsidies, the abolition of the trade fee for cooperative farmers, Alexis Tsipras and the SYRIZA Government had announced an additional tax deduction for cooperative farmers, which is a strong incentive, but also a refund of excise duty on agricultural oil. You have forgotten that, along with the thirteenth pension. Go for a walk. But your indifference to the essential problem of production costs is not limited to agricultural oil alone. Immediately after your entry into the government you increased the electricity tariff by depleting any reduction in VAT on electricity. The preparation of primary production, Minister, for dealing with and adapting to the climate crisis needs an effective, public, solidarity and at the same time social, ELGA law. Clear answers to producers must be given that the outdated logic of 'giving all private individuals' will not bring about an increase in premiums for farmers, but will also not cause a loss of insurance cover for them. I left for the end, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal for cooperatives, where the idea of ideologies are now being ruthless - to allow me to speak - with the proposal that you have put into public consultation and not just because you have the right to introduce private interests into cooperatives, but - look - at opportunity prices. Because you say in it, at least in what you have presented, that the share of investors may have a different value than the share of members. Where did this thing come from? Yes, you're making it even better. He's got better than that: Members have an obligation to trade for remission, right? - while investors have no obligation. I think it can't be done. It doesn't work anymore! If that is your vision and the interests that obviously support such views, I think it is not what the farmers' world expected. Gentlemen of government, you are dramatically on the wrong track. The problems of farmers accumulate and you deal with unrelated issues. Today we are asking for clear answers, which is why we have raised this question and not only ourselves, which is the least, but the world that listens to us. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Vassilis Kokalis is called in Stepma, who has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a good year for everyone and everyone! During the debate on the vote of confidence, Minister, you devoted about five minutes to unfolding the government's draft for the primary sector. And the Prime Minister just spent a minute. But yesterday's press conference created a pleasant expectation for farmers. Don't laugh at all! Many people have called me - I do not know if they have called you - farmers and told me 'Mr Vorides refers to us'. Let us now see whether or not these are true. You do have to give answers. I said: "Children, wait. Someday at least we'll get answers." You said yesterday that you have implemented 70%, I think, of the commitments. Reduction of the tax on agricultural enterprises to 20%. What are rural businesses? Are natural persons employed by professional farmers? Do you mean enterprises in the secondary sector, processing? You need to explain. Honestly, people need to know why the interview had an unexpected development. The farmers say: is he referring to us? So, we're gonna pay 20%? Reduction of the tax to 20% in agricultural enterprises. Reduction of import duty to 9%. Professional farmers under a 2016 law are already tax-free for up to 9,500 euros. So those who see us now ask with me the following question: 'We benefit, Minister, from 9% of our professional farmers?'. You also said about a commitment from your government, your party, on financial instruments. I now think you need to show courage - and you have this courage - as you did a few months ago and say that this was only work done by the previous government and the previous leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, which you continue to do. You have, however, presented, as a commitment, as a project, an announcement solely of your own funding, the new financial instruments in the primary sector. I think you have the courage to say: 'Yes, I have announced it, but you have launched it for two years'. These are the basics you announced yesterday. It turns out, unfortunately, that there is no plan. And in order for there to be a plan, you have to be involved. And to be concerned - you may have the intention - you should know. The number one problem at the moment is the prices of products, the cost of production. I know, we all know, that the possibility of intervening in the prices of the product cannot be directly done by the state. But what can he do? We are dealing with a contract, a contract that sells and one that it buys. Bad lies, the buyer today is much stronger than the seller, the farmer. So what are you doing? You're increasing the bargaining power of the seller, Part One. We, Minister, have said in the debate on the vote of confidence that we will not only denounce errors and omissions, but we will also propose solutions. What did we suggest and what do we suggest? Increase the dealer's negotiating power, the farmer's. How do you increase it by the new law on cooperatives, tell me when you actually break up? What are the incentives you give healthy cooperatives to increase their negotiating power so that they can better negotiate the price for wheat, cotton and maize? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The proposal from our own - and you should have done it already - is this, unless you do not know it: to make use of the assets of the bankrupt cooperatives by the healthy cooperatives. Do you know that the lack of storage spaces is directly related to the price? These are the questions, Mr Minister, to which farmers are waiting today for an answer. Do you know that the lack of storage facilities which are currently being exploited by individuals and which should be exploited by healthy cooperatives - contribute to increasing farmers' negotiating power? Subsequently, it turns out that you do not have a specific plan for products. Let me remind you that for the first time the national cotton strategy, the national plan for aromatic medicinal plants, the national scheme for vine, had become. The cotton working party has been abandoned. Poorly, it has to go on. A decision has been made which will be implemented since the year, 4 July, which makes the contract on the spot compulsory between the ginner and the producer. It ends the phenomenon of open prices.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u45	Please complete. Unless you want your dentistry, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll tell the rest in dentistry. We have also gladly seen that in the targeting process you have many of the projects that we started from cloning to modernising pharmaceutical and industrial cannabis legislation. Yeah, go ahead. Agricultural debts. We have not heard you say that, you know that. Cooperatives' debts. Loans guaranteed by the Greek State. What's the design for all this? Most of them I'll tell in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u47	Only you've almost exhausted secondary. You took two and a half more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u48	Half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u49	Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou has the floor for five minutes. Let me just say there'll be a one-minute tolerance, but not two-and-a-half-three minutes. In this case they will be charged to dentistry. Here you go, Mrs. Tyloridou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really think this is an opportunity to discuss rural development and rural policy, telling truths and looking into the future. Following your action from the 7th of July in the Ministry of Rural Development and your interviews, two things I think characterize the policy of the Government of New Democracy in the Ministry of Rural Development. The first is the slap in the work that has been done on our own government. In fact, the projects that you were electionfully undermining and blaming as unworthy of speech, and today you are presenting them as yours, and then I shall refer to specific examples. The second is the inconsistency of the Ministry. Inconsistency of leadership with farmers, farmers and fishermen, but also unconsciousness between you. We will expect, of course, because it is still too early to see your own projects, your design, what you will see from now on, because it seems that at the moment your only vision is the privatisation of ELGA. We will expect to see what you will actually be able to offer to give perspective to the country's rural world at a favourable time for you. Minister, I would like you to tell me: is it or is it not hypocrisy the success of your own government in creating the Guarantee Fund for Rural Development? Is it or isn't it hypocrisy to take on this fund that it's your job? Let me remind you, then, that the Agricultural Development Guarantee Fund was signed by a joint ministerial decision of the then Minister for Rural Development Mr Arachovitis and the Deputy Minister for Economy and Development Mr Giannakis and published in the Office of the Official Journal of the Government of 2197 of 2019, and indeed exactly under the conditions you present today as yours, with the 80 million coming from the ESDP, and that this fund will be able to provide loans for farms up to EUR 400 million. Is it or is it not hypocrisy to say that you are reducing HISBIA, something that you are doing because it was budgeted in the 2019 budget by our government, otherwise you would not have had that possibility? And now, with your budget from now on, we will have an increase because of the increase in objective values. Is it or is it not hypocrisy to present measures 8.3 and 8.4 concerning public works planned and designed by our government? You have done nothing about the implementation of the thirty-two projects, which are already ready and the public expenditure of EUR 450 million. Minister, is it or is it not sceptical and hypocritical to say today that you, in very short time, managed to export agricultural products, for example to one of the world's largest markets, China? You are talking about the kiwi and the crocodile, but something that was fully ready, with the protocol even translated into Chinese, English and Greek and, of course, you signed it well. In the same case, however, you left and did not deal with the other products we have promoted in China, such as sea bass, eggplant, smoked salmon from the Chinese authorities in October, but we do not see that you have the same interest in them. Eventually you were ready to sign your signatures on ready. But when you have to move what you're doing? You signed, the day before yesterday, the resolution of the livestock by EUR 1.1 million and, respectively, did so in September with more than EUR 4 million. But how do you do that? It is not straightforward to the beneficiaries from the state budget, but you are going through another way through the Public Investment Programme of the regions, which creates too much delays. From the 5 million to be taken by our farmers since September, the region of Thessaly and Epirus began to cowardly, because you changed the process without any planning. I conclude by saying that there are a hundred and eighty-six specialities in the Ministry of Rural Development, which will provide various services and supervisory mechanisms from the Ministry of Administrative Reform, and you should go ahead with it. As you also need to proceed with the recruitment of a hundred and seventy permanent veterinarians, which had also been approved by the previous government and had been contacted with the European Union, because otherwise we are hitting you the alarm. In the control carried out in May by the European Union as to whether the country can respond to the possibilities of the state control throughout the food process, we will have great sanctions and major fines that touch the 50,000 euros a day. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u51	Mrs Theodora Jacquez has the floor for five minutes, with three minutes. Will you get your dentistry now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u52	No, I'll take a second. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately continuing in the same spirit, Minister, with my fellow Members, I would like to convey to you - and because this debate on the topical question is taking place just in time after Christmas holidays - that winter was for the world of the Greek region, for the world of the Greek countryside the worst decade, not for unexplained reasons, but for very specific practical reasons. The heating allowance was paid well. The social dividend was not paid and was missing from both households and businesses. And the income of farmers in the rural world, Mr Minister, is historically low for certain reasons, it has already been shown by our colleagues. The price of oil has collapsed to 2.10 euros a kilo in a year that is supposed to be good both in terms of quality and quantity. Our national product, cotton, has been given for reasons unexplained, or rather I will explain why, in any case, the ginning industry, when it is with you, does not feel any pressure to give better prices to keep the agricultural income. It is EUR 37 pound, when the market value of the product, Minister, exceeds 67 cents a peach, for reasons unjustified. In any case, the same is true of peaches, which are cultivated almost exclusively in the regions of northern Greece, and which is also one of the most powerful branches of our rural economy, which employs 12 000 families mainly in northern Greece, is being activated around the twenty-six processing industries, which employ a thousand five hundred permanent workers and ten thousand seasonal workers. So, peach producers' income was 30% reduced this year and why? This has been done for certain reasons. And because of the adverse weather conditions that prevailed because of the climate change that had an impact on both quality and quantity, and because of the Russian embargo, a political decision by the European Union because of the revival of the cold war between Russia and America paid by the Greek producers, and especially because of the unfair commercial practices, especially table peach, followed by all those involved in the marketing sector, and of course due to the friendly habit of the industry and especially the canned ones, who also did not feel any pressure on your part when they met with you in the summer, to give for the product final prices that do not cover all the costs of production. Of course, the de minimis aid policy, which has been given over the past two years, has significantly strengthened the income of producers as an exceptional and temporary measure. But, Minister, I also told you in the recent debate you had with us, the exclusion of the producers of peaches from the payment of the de minimis aid was a flagrant injustice to these producers, and most of all having the same problems, the adverse weather conditions, the shrinking of their income, the addition of additional duties to the already existing ones. Because the final product, the canvas, gets into the American market, mostly. In any case, you know very well that the producers will find this problem. Why, do not you have any error in this regard, the additional costs will be passed on by the canning producers themselves. They won't suffer it themselves, limiting their profits. For all these reasons you should pay it. Of course, I agree that this is an exceptional measure, Minister, in any case. The real policy here is to take measures corrosive, such as the restructuring of table peach, which calls for it, demonstrates it as a long-term policy, and the previous Commissioner Hogan himself, in letters that Mr Apostle has exchanged with him. And of course, we should also see the strengthening of producer professional organisations to gain a serious negotiating position in negotiating their product prices with producers. We must also see the creation of the professional organisation, which is in its first steps and has not yet found its pace, as a real platform for dialogue between all the parties involved throughout the supply chain of table peach and a free distribution and fresh and canned food programme to strengthen the price of the product, if there are problems. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall also finally take my dentistry, Mr President. All I'm telling you is tools known, we don't find America. The CAP is already in existence. In any case, your Ministry should have carried out such policies all the time before, because they are well known and always give us the opportunity to make progress. From there on, Minister, I would like to say that the value of the CAP is undoubtedly great for the Greek countryside, because it is aid of EUR 2.5 billion per year, which, if it is not paid in due time, you know that very well, will be lost from the Greek countryside and from the rural world. In 2020, the negotiations on the CFP for the period 2021-2027 were supposed to be completed. It is a more demanding CAP than in the past. It concerns a new model of implementation, with a strategic plan to be submitted, with environmental objectives to be monitored and with measurable results. We therefore need careful planning to finally see what resources will be and whether they will ultimately be reduced, but they must be directed productively and developmentally by supporting the agricultural sector. Because the next CAP, with the strategic plan and the detailed justification that it needs for our choices, poses the risk of loss of valuable resources if the strategic plan that I told you before was presented in due course, or if we have failed to implement it, is not submitted in due course. At the moment, several questions arise, Minister, in this respect, concerning the course of completion of the very strategic plan. Why, then, is the signing of the contract delaying the start of its retirement? Why have the ex-ante evaluation and risk management studies not yet been selected, which are a prerequisite for the completion of the strategic plan? In fact, according to your design, when is this strategic plan finally planned to be completed? We all understand how important this is for the country, because in any case the timely and stable payment of aid to our farmers, which is about 2.5 billion a year, must not be jeopardised. In addition, given the seriousness of the matter, it would be crucial, Minister, in the coming period, to have a regular briefing, both on the development of the CAP discussions and on the progress of the completion of the national strategic plan. In conclusion, I should like to come back to an issue which we had the opportunity to discuss in the last timely question that I submitted to you concerning the ELGA, namely the position you have formally put forward here that no action has been taken by the previous administration with regard to the preparation of proportionate studies and the reform of the regulation. Minister, you know that the process has begun and that the board of directors has begun. the ELGA on 16-12-2018 took the decision to initiate exactly the change in the ELGA regulation and to draw up the proportionate study. In this respect, the procedure for selecting a contractor to undertake precisely the advisory support and the preparation of proportionate studies on the viability of the ELGA has been initiated. Is your problem, after all, that this notice does not involve private sector participation, which does not match your policy, as you have said, to privatise the organisation? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Dimitrios Haritou has the floor for five minutes and his denology is three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a good year for all and a good growing and productive year for farmers, whom we are addressing today. Minister, you have cultivated great expectations and today you do not have to present your own work. Move without a plan, set the autopilot, that all the market regulates and exhaust your role in a mediator role for the big private interests. And whoever bears, they have endured! Small and medium-sized farmers, if they are not viable, will be thrown into Kavala. No matter how far you are using, you can't cover the default of all that you promised in the rural world. With tax relief, you are breaking open doors, since they do not concern a large majority of farmers. Do the farmers hear you that with such measures you will reduce production costs, that you will compete with agriculture and you know what they are doing? They're laughing, gentlemen! Because they know what it means to produce and reduce it. We handed you over to the PAA table full of dishes. I am referring to the improvement plans, the micro-credit programme, the decision on improvement projects and others. And you, by magic, appear to be your work. Congratulations! But there, where you're really giving it all up, showing who you are, it's on the matter of ELGA. For more than thirty years you have turned him into a tool for the exercise of a customer policy of benefits. You didn't modernize him, you deceived him. And you come here today and ask us if we like this ELGA, which does not pay on time, which does not cover all the damage. Are you asking us if we like your works in ELGA? We, Mr President, have tried to change him, rationalise him, modernise him to cover the new problems of climate change, to become sustainable, to maintain his public, social, and mutually rewarding character. How do you do, gentlemen? You didn't find any decisions on proportional studies or anything. You're lying. I am tabling the decision on the procurer of proportionate studies of the administration of the ELGA. When will you sign it, Minister? We're waiting. There's no money - you say - the ELGA. Another lie, gentlemen. It has almost EUR 150 million at the moment. You probably don't know how to read his budgets well. Our hands are the truth that they are tied up because of the budgetary adjustment for the 20% increase in its revenues from the state budget. Why do you restrict yourself and did not anticipate it in this year's budget? To spare money to make gifts to your friends who give you simple support? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Charitou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Gentlemen, but you have in mind. What proportionate studies? What contractor? You private insurance companies are looking for. That's the ones you have in mind. Except that the mixture of insurance you are looking for between ELGA and companies is nothing but the amputation of ELGA and the transfer of funds to private insurance companies. You are preparing a nightbomb on the foundations of ELGA, which, unfortunately, the "marble" will be paid by the small and medium-sized farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, a very favourable year of high yield on dynamic crops such as cotton, tobacco and others has been marked by the collapse of prices, the cost of which has been unilaterally borne by farmers and not by the processing sector, and you have done absolutely nothing. Unfortunately, the Rodopi producers were hit twice. A hundred and fifty - five thousand acres - half of which were completely destroyed by an extreme quartzing - are registered from August 15th to ELGA services. Did you think, gentlemen, that there are producers who did not deliver a pound of cotton, who did not get a half-euro from their production, while they did most of their costs? Although we have told you in good time, you refused to give a deposit to those who had a total disaster, even 30%, in order to stand up to dignity. Take care, gentlemen, don't triple evil and don't take time and tied reinforcement. You'll have a full responsibility. Only words are you, Minister, for tobacco producers. Their production was destroyed in 2018, they took 100 euros per acre last year. We have opened them up the way for compensation through the former ASEANs who deserve it. They filed, went and come, Minister. You see them, you hit them in the back, but they don't see light. Tell us what you're gonna do. You met with the regional farmers' representatives. They expected how and how the de minimis. Last year with 85 minutes of milk selling they took money from de minimis. This year at a reduced price at 75 minutes they didn't get anything. Don't tell us that you don't do politics with de minimis. Coastal fishermen at the most difficult spot, in the northeast Aegean, are unable to survive. They see their catches fruited by the eastern fishermen. I am referring to tuna, and they are watching. If you can't support them, at least don't load them with a new raisin. Finally, and I close, Mr President, I expect answers, Minister. I understand you're in a difficult ministry. I don't hide you from the fact that you look like a Maradona who put him on a basketball court to play. However, producers, farmers, the rural world is waiting for answers. If you do not, be sure that you will quickly find them in front of you and even know that they do not forget and can actually return what you do to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 10th Municipal School of Nea Ionia Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor with three minutes of protology and two minutes of denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u57	All right, put them together in one pack.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, what farmers enjoy today, and I am referring in particular to the small and medium-sized farmers who are the vast majority of the agricultural sector, the tax sector and the insurance sector, I repeat what they enjoy, owe the SYRIZA Government. I am saying this on account of knowledge and I am explaining that it was the SYRIZA government that brought tax-free income back to farmers when you and L4172/2013 were prepared to tax agricultural income together with Community aid, together with compensation from the first euro, and at a rate of 13%. We prevented it, SYRIZA government. And not only that, but the SYRIZA government has helped to make farmers and farmers enjoy three types of tax free today. In particular, it was taxed up to EUR 9,550, and even on the basis of the employees' scale. This is unjustified for compensation and for all the aid from agricultural programmes under the CAP in Pillar II. That is not to say, up to EUR 12 000 for green aid and the associated ones. Protection from the seizures of the aid under Pillar I up to the amount of EUR 7,500. Eliminate the trade fee for cooperative farmers and cooperatives. Setting up to a hundred and twenty instalments for debts to taxi and insurance funds, and with a debt haircut of 85%. Reduction of VAT on electricity from 13% to 6%. Reduction of HPAI by 12% on average and 30% on low and medium-sized assets. Removal of excise duty on wine, Mr Voridis. By law of 2018, this was done. It's not your work. What are you doing on the contrary? You give the lion's share once again to the owners and owners, indifferently or flying crustaceans to the farmers with the six and seven and ten acres, which - I repeat - are the vast majority of the farmers, or to farmers who are unable to have the huge flocks of five hundred animals. Why crumbs are 173 euros tax reliefs per year from the reduction of the import rate, a reduction that will only see 6% of farmers, since all others are covered by the tax duty introduced by the SYRIZA Government. You reduced the tax advance, but only 5%, when SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras had announced the reduction to 50%. You have reduced the tax on cooperative schemes, but for the cooperative farmers themselves you are doing nothing. You do not enter the discount again announced by Alexis Tsipras, a discount that the cooperative world is asking for. Our fishermen have seen a carpet tax which is not linked to their production, to their fishing or to their turf, simply by the length of their boat, which makes or makes no money. The big issue, however, is what you will do with insurance. We downloaded insurance contributions and got them out of age. We have made them lower and fairer, again for the vast majority of farmers, since 85% of the rural world already pays the minimum contribution of EUR 114 per month by law of SYRIZA. You experimented with the worst scenarios. You spoke about doubling this minimum contribution and then, following reactions from the rural world, the SYRIZA and some of New Democracy Members, you started and changed the game. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] But we want to ask you what you are going to do with agricultural pensions. Will you cut them down? Will you increase them? Will you finally keep the law of Katrugalu? What are you going to do with the farmer and the farmer who one and two years wait without a pension and wait and retire? Finally, we want to ask you: why did you not reduce the excise duty on agricultural oil in the budget? Why did you budget EUR 600 million for the reduction of the oil tax, but only for the shipowners, the industrialists, the clinics and nothing has been done to reduce farmers' production costs? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. We want to ask you why you are not following Alexis Tsipras' announcement for a reduced rate of VAT from 13% to 11% for farmland, medicines, fertilisers and animal feed. You are not saying anything to all of this, because all you were concerned about was lying to the government, so that you can continuously serve the interests of those who mainly support you, the permanent and possessed. The rural world, however, is now aware and will prove it outrageous in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Scouffa. Ladies and gentlemen, many years from me too. Have a good year. Mr. Avramakis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for three minutes and with Mr. Avramakis, the list of honourable Members is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many years of good year to everyone. Greek farmers and livestock farmers have begun to realize that the current government is in a completely opposite direction to the one that overshadows the interests of the forces of primary production and the Greek public interest. One could say and strongly support that you do not have a plan to solve the problems of farmers, you do not have any proposals on how to make a better agri-food sector and generally a better course for the rural world. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development could be said to be characterised by ignorance, incompetence, inadequacy, class division and the service of specific interests in the rural world. The scripts to date of the government on agricultural policy are frustrating. The Government is attempting to reduce the number of people employed in agriculture and livestock. Unfortunately, with the legislative initiatives we have seen so far by the small and medium-sized farmers, the small and medium-sized farmers are already seeing that production costs are rising. The increase in the price of agricultural power and agricultural oil is a very characteristic example, which significantly increases the cost of production. The same is true of the cost of transporting the products, because, for example, in the poor Serres Prefecture, which is basically agricultural, producers are now forced to pay tolls, while the new system of agricultural insurance, which you have already announced, will further increase costs for the rural world. We do not forget your retreat in terms of increasing the social security contributions of farmers, resulting from pressure from counter-population and the rural world. However, the increase in this activity of the farmer and the farmer is not accompanied by an increase in prices at which their products are sold. In contrast, we see while producers sell their produce cheaply, as consumers buy expensive from the shelf. Unfortunately, Greek products on the shelf are constantly increasing their prices, while the production and sales prices of the products are falling and falling. This year’s production in oil is just one example. Equivalent and even greater is the reality in potato, rice, cotton, of course, where Serres Prefecture is one of the major prefectures in cotton production after Thessaly, as well as in citrus fruits. That is the reality, and that is what we all have to say. Unfortunately, you are slowly driving small and medium-sized farmers gradually to leave their fields and you are seeking to get more and less land into less and less, applying a class policy in the agricultural sector as well. In tecturoculture, which is a key issue which concerns Serres Law, there I can say that you have also been denounced as Ministry of Rural Development and granted in white to the Ministry of Development and to your fellow Minister, Mr Georgiadis, the possibility of negotiating for the Greek Sugar Industry, within this and the Serres plant. The Ministry of Development granted and proceeded with a concession agreement for the factories and infrastructures of the Greek Sugar Industry, with a view to restoring its function, but without practically guaranteeing the beet producers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please for your tolerance, Mr President. As far as the sugar part is concerned, I would like to say that in all the negotiations with any investor, Minister, there was, as an inalienable condition, the fact of the absorption of production and the compensation of producers. They were talking about a budget line of EUR 2 million, which I do not know in the negotiation and conclusion of a concession agreement for factories because it was not respected. It is a serious matter that we need to discuss. It is made by producers and farmers urgently and needs your answers. Now, the issues arising from the solution that has been given are clear. Beetles are currently rotting in the fields, since the Greek Sugar Industry is not receiving them. The non-receipt of the Greek Sugar Industry, Mr. Minister, entails a great risk for the loss of the related aid, since you know very well that the basic condition for receiving the related aid is to grant production and compensate beet factories in the Greek Sugar Industry. So you understand the anguish of these people not only about the absorption of production itself, but even about whether they can get their connection. The only way out for producers is to limit losses or sell biogas feed. These prices in practice do not cover workers, beet or transport costs. So you understand that this is a very big issue and you need to see it with due care and seriousness. Finally, there was no proposal from the tenant of the Greek industry for the new year to have contracts for new beet production, while the businessman, as far as we know, is not bound to date to conclude contracts with producers. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u61	Your dentistry will only be a minute, because you've exhausted your time of dentistry by a lot. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Vorides, has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I wish all my fellow Members a good year, health, successes, strength and patience, especially in Parliament, because you have a very strong task. The government's legislative initiative from what I see is extremely strong and dense, which will require, on the part of Parliament, unrelenting work. I am sure that as you will always meet with the best possible degree. To finish or rather to begin by ending with the subjects of order for which I am extremely sensitive. First, whoever says gifts will tell me very quickly and clearly what gifts and what gifts! Secondly, anyone who tells me that I am being punished will ask Arachovite first and ask him if I called him to be present when the contract with the European Investment Fund is signed. Also, to ask how he replied with his letter noblely, but politically and to ask if Kasimis was present, the former Secretary General of the Ministry at the time of signature. What wrestling? What are you talking about? To wonder if that's what you've ever done. So, from that point on, did you hand over this procedure? Didn't I say you didn't start it, obviously you started it and worked for it, but did you finish it? Because this process has phases, it has steps, which we are activated, we are monitoring and we are doing so that the funding can finally be provided to our producers. This is what we hope will be done at the end of January, in February, at any rate, in the first quarter of 2020. But this has a bank procedure, it has contracts, it has capital transfers. Did you finish this to give it to you? Who refused it and when? Mrs. Tyloridou, you said about the contract with China on kiwi. Of course, you've worked for it. But I'm going to ask you a question: are you done with it? You went to China to sign and you didn't sign. You've been on a trip and you've come. This has been signed for our time with a work on which we have also contributed. Or do you mean, because there's been a government change, we're gonna erase it all? So, obviously, there are projects that are under way. Obviously, there are works we work for. Obviously, there are works that we are moving forward. Obviously, there are projects that you have contributed to. Obviously, there are projects that we are completing and which we are presenting. When did we have a whistle? That's all we can do with order issues. But we're done. It's the most inappropriate and don't mess it up, because you have no say, especially to me. Especially to me, never do that. Now let's go further. To ask: The Rural Development Programme, obviously, has started for your days, has it? Isn't that clear? You have spent years in the Rural Development Programme. And obviously, this was shaped in a certain way. Whether we disagreed or agreed, that's a word. Is there any way I can erase the Rural Development Programme and get it at all? Do you have any such idea? So obviously the Rural Development Programme is developing. But I hear things challenging. I wonder why you're talking about it. Are you talking to me now about the improvement plans? What do you say to me, Mr Arachovite, about the improvement plans? That you handed me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u63	Seven months government, that's what we're telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u64	You do well to say it! I have no objections. If you want to talk about the improvement plans, let's talk, but you're self-destructive. Let me tell you why you're self-destructive. You're telling me about the improvement plans. The central and major work of the ESDP, at a total value of EUR 600 million. Critical size for estimating agriculture, critical size, and for the absorption of the ESDP and its evolution, and you are not telling your colleagues, who may not know, that you have made it an unsolved legal knot, trying to determine the reasonable cost? And to go now to what you had done in this history - where it took me endless time to sit down and unfold what you had done, a legal divestment unbelievable - there is a requirement, which is a requirement on the regulation, on all these projects and on all these offers that you have made, to have a reasonable cost mechanism. We are therefore taking off a notice and say the three lower. To make three offers and to take the lowest as a reasonable cost mechanism. Since this is contained in the contract notice and the interested parties are presenting these three offers, they are making a circular with which they are saying that we will now make lists of comparable other prices. In other words, you change the terms of the contract, you change the terms of the contract, you create the full cancellation ground for the entire project, because you legally don't know what's going on, and since you see the legal involvement, because all your entities say that this is not a determination process and you can't do it, you freeze it for 15 months and sit and look at it confused by what you've done and I'm coming out in two months! And you're telling me about the improvement plans? And after I unblocked it in the two-month period - and it was not simple, I say law, because you had done this huge salad - the Attica Region has completed the assessments of the improvement plans, the Thessaly Region has completed the assessment of the improvement plans and we are ready to go ahead with this measure, which will normally run, I hope we have the first contracts within AGROTICA, in order to have contracts there with the stakeholders and those involved in the measure and their plans have been approved. But talk to me about the improvement plans? It's an incompetent flag. It is emblematic what you have done with the improvement plans. But let's go further. Listen. There was a possibility that we should have an organised debate on the issues of primary production, and that we should end something. Thank you very much for the title of "Marantona", although it is excessive, but to deny that primary production is a basketball court. Primary production is a really big field, with huge challenges, and that is how we have to deal with it. So, Maradona, it's not on a big field. So we would have the opportunity today to have a wider debate on what the government is doing and I would like to tell you something else. I understand that an Opposition, which has just been defeated seven months ago, is obvious - not only for you, it applies to every opposition - that it is in a political difficulty, objective political difficulty. For all these amazing things, which you say had to be done, there's always an easy question: why didn't you do it? It's an easy question. Why didn't you do it for four and a half years? It was magical, it was, like, four and a half years ago, you've been in the government, you have all these amazing ideas, why haven't you applied them for four and a half years? There is, indeed, an Opposition after recent elections in an objective difficulty. I understand that. I mean, now you're coming and yelling at us about agricultural oil. So now I have an idea. The agricultural oil who banned it exactly? I'm sorry about the question, I don't want to trouble you with it, but because it was abolished in 2016 by your law, now, instead of putting the matter up a little more self-criticism? Look out, I made a presentation yesterday. Mr. Red, you saw it went well, you recognized it. I like the fact that you recognized it. Create a sense. I spoke three and a half hours yesterday at the press conference. Three and a half hours I've developed what we've done in this semester, but what we're going to do next year. For whoever is interested there is at the moment and a full account - be careful - with which we are tempting what we have done. We presented a programme on 18-6-2019, a detailed programme a few days before the elections. With this program we are interfering. We are not involved in what you say, we are involved in our election commitments, which we have said we will do and for which we have voted we are going to do. The others were yours. You told the Greek people and the Greek people rejected them. I will not now come to implement your programme that was rejected by the Greek people. I will implement our programme, approved by the Greek people. Watch something. I have said this before in this Chamber because it is one of the key elements of the great ideological change in the hegemony model of what is happening today in Greek society. We have talked in detail about these issues and the issues of primary production.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u65	But even for the thirteenth pension, you said yesterday that you would abolish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u66	Please don't interrupt the Minister. It takes time, of course, but please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u67	As you know, I accept holidays and dialogue within the Chamber and colleagues, provided these are not taken away from my time. This goes to the President. Mr President, it is in your judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u68	I've caught you, Minister. Please do not take a vacation from SYRIZA's seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u69	So what did we say in relation to the programme that we presented on 18-6-2019? We said we would reduce taxation to 10% for agricultural schemes. Did we? We did it. What else did we say? What I'm telling you is on our schedule. We said we'd see the cooperative law again. Did we? We did it. The cooperative law is currently in consultation. I would like to say a half word about what I have heard about privatization. I, as you know, have no problem having clear, honest, ideological debates, programming discussions and finding disagreements. No problem in that. Don't hide evidence from me. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Question. You have read, studied the draft cooperative law, which we will propose. So you say that we are opening the door to individuals and privatising them. Don't you think? Isn't that it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u70	With the right to vote, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u71	Yes, for the right to vote, of course. Isn't that what you're saying? Isn't that the argument? Yes, sir. You want to say something else? How is this decision made by whom?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u72	With the shareholders.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u73	With an increased majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u74	Say it a little. This decision shall be taken by the cooperatives at the general meeting by a majority of 2/3. Question: What now? So, what do you say to me? That the increased majority...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u75	You open the door and say if they want to get in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u76	Two minutes, Mr. Arachovite. I heard. You are now saying something else: 'Never, by any decision.' Yes, sir. Why does Mr Arachovite say that? In order not to sell the cooperatives and the related. Yeah, good. Here, we could have an ideological disagreement. We have no ideological disagreement, because in fact the regulation I make is a protection regulation for cooperatives. Are you aware of what is happening at the level of the production and marketing of agricultural products in the world? Do you realize we're actually talking about the most globalised market? Have you realised that agricultural enterprises are entering, that is, manufacturing, but that they play a central role in the organisation of production? Do you realize that they are entering and actually claim an increasing share of this market? Question: Cooperatives to these capital companies how to defend themselves and how to protect themselves, if they are unable to attract capital, invest, actually be able to stand up to this international competition? I will open up this opportunity by a decision of the General Assembly of 2/3 and you will tell me 'no', to leave them abandoned and unarmed in this international competition. In other words, you are telling me that companies should collect whatever funds they want and make as many investments as they want, but the cooperative is in the corner without being able to make a decision to attract capital and raise investors. It's, uh, sadly hypocritical. And I ask: do you anticipate the existence of a private investor in your law?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u78	You're looking forward to it. Question: If you anticipate this, why do you see the need, did you make the assessment of whether a private investor has entered in your regulation since 2016? Zero! Why didn't he come in while you see the need? Because obviously if you say "send the money, you're not going to be part of it, you have no chance of interfering with the decisions, you can't commit by decision, so you don't have any role" is like saying to him "send the money, loos and leave." That's how they don't get any money. And so we are creating such a framework for which you are abandoning us. I'm on it. We had said that we would establish a regular and structured dialogue with inter-branch organisations. You had a regulation - we discussed this - on inter-branch organisations. When did you bring her? You've been in the government for four and a half years. When did you bring in the interprofessional arrangement? You brought her 15 days before the elections, and you were four and a half years in government. I have legislated in this House, here it has been legislated - not by a ministerial decision - the new framework for interbranch organisations. There has been open dialogue and discussion. In accepting what the interbranch organisations have asked me to do as a whole, I have adopted the ministerial decision. And you come now - in the New Democracy programme - is that we will do the interprofessional organization of the feta - and you say to me: "You have done a coup." You're telling me I've done a coup! It's me! Why are you telling me I've couped in the feta case?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u79	We'll see if you'll do it next week. That was a warning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Arachovite, why have I couped?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u81	I'm sorry, the Minister said he liked dialogue. You understand he's causing you, and he's going to get a lot of time. Please, Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u83	You blame Voridis for making a coup, but he never completes it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u84	Listen, it's a coup. This is a coup d'état for SYRIZA colleagues that some processors along with some producers have filed a file and are asking for recognition as an inter-professional organisation of feta. This is a coup I did, because they legally exercise their right. What do I have to do with this? I have an obligation to examine the file, to see whether the dossier meets the legal requirements, and then to make the relevant decision. They say to me: 'Yes, but, you know, we haven't been able to solve this for three years now because they're fighting with each other'. And I answer: "I do not fly a kite." I have decided to come back to you syntheticly - I hope - that we all unite - and I support it politically - and I will gather them together in order to exhaust any possibility of political mediation in this regard. But, excuse me, everyone will do their job. The interbranch organisation is a private institution. It either has a collective form or character of an urban corporation. It is therefore the responsibility of the parties to function in such a way as to promote their public interest in relation to the product. Our responsibility is to do everything we can to strengthen greater representativeness. And we'll do it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] But, from there on - be careful! - I do not begin to fulfil my legal obligations as Minister, which come from the legislation that I have voted for, to say that "you know, because I don't like Nikos because he has red eyes and I don't like George because he has blue or I like Maria's green, I'm with Maria". Not like that to me. What the provisions provide for, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, and we will continue to do what ultimately requires the interest of the economy to do. What else did we say? I have heard that you do not like the policy of reducing their taxes. However, we have had a policy of increasing taxes with you. Between the political increase in taxes and the political reduction in taxes, I should like to put myself on the table. I'm with the tax cuts. I hear you'd like more reductions. I'm with you. I am pleased to hear that from the Left, that the Left supports a policy of reducing taxation. I really want it. I'm glad we're all going to be together and know that we're really upset at this. We are stirred up in the sense that once a financial space is created, this space will be exploited. We were, however, committed to these tax reductions, both from 28% to 20%, both for the import tax rate and for the reduction of HISPIA. I heard this amazing. They say to me: "You know, the reduction of the ETUC we said we would do it."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u85	We had budgeted the money, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u86	And you might have budgeted it. But you were awkward. You have regretted us by election and said not to do so, budget it and leave it for us. Because these things, as you can see, are not pressing, the reality is that we had announced the reduction of HISA and made it earlier than we had announced. We had said we were going to do it in two years, not in our first year of government. We are now talking about duty-free in wine, about abolishing the excise duty. Look out! Question One: Who imposed him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u87	The memos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u88	The memorials you didn't apply, I suppose. Is that right? You have nothing to do with the memos. It's something foreign to you. You have implemented the policy, you have imposed the tax. Tax was reduced, tax abolished. And what did we say? That the question of tax reimbursement, which was raised, was settled by the bill we brought in. And we did. You're telling me about the cost of energy. What arrangement did we bring, Mr. Arachovite? You're going to consult with Mr. Famello a little, because we've had a regulation that increases from 25% to 75% the benefit to the producer from the agricultural photovoltaics. And Mr. Femellos came here and told us that we are confusing the energy market. Do not hurt Mytileneus and benefit from any farmer in any village. Is that right? That's the situation. That's what you told us about the energy issue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're talking about the PAA. What exactly are you telling us? I have obviously talked about the improvement plans. But are they just improvement plans? I'm so sorry! Let us get to know a little, when did the measure of small farms take place? The measures for cooperation and for promoting innovation, for the completion of the evaluation of small enhancers, for those measures that have been triggered, forestry measures when have been implemented? Just remind me what you've done for forest measures four and a half years. Just remind me what you had done, 'cause I don't remember you doing something. That's what they've moved on now. So, listen. - to say a little about the training of young farmers. How many have you done? Number! How many have you done? You had the measure to run for four and a half years. How many young farmers did you draw up? Zero! Activate, will we have done sixteen thousand training by June and come and tell me "What is it that we did for the PAA?" Others about anti-hailing protection and all that. So what do I want to say to them? That's what we did in the semester. In six months these things have been done. And now I ask further: as far as our programming is concerned, what exactly do you say to us? Are you telling us in a few words that oil prices are low? We waited for you, didn't know him! We've been waiting for you! I just want to ask this: what exactly did you do about the low oil prices? Tell me the tools. I have heard the following words: 'You see processors and you do not push them'. Do you mean slap their hand, slap them in a slap when you say "press them"? To be serious and political in this Chamber, are you telling me your institutional tools? I hear the institutional tools. Mrs. Tyloridou, what did you do to force them? How did you push them? Did you hit their legs under the table? What did you do? What are the institutional tools? Why don't you tell people the truth that the issue of prices in a free market is being shaped by supply and demand mechanisms? That's the truth! Why don't you tell him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u89	It's pure Pontius Pilate!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u90	Oh, no! To you, who do not have my own logic that is Pontius Pilate and where are you Herod or another biblical person, I ask the question: What exactly did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u91	I gave it to you in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u92	I said it because it was the time, so it coincides with the season. So what exactly did you do? What kind of tools did you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u93	It's also in the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u94	Listen: in fact, here you simply do not want to recognise that the intervention which is necessary - but not in the form you say - has to do with other sizes, with strategic targets, has to do with strengthening competitiveness, reducing production costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u95	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u96	I shall conclude, Mr President. It has to do with 'branding', with increased standardization, with added value. These are the things that will give value to the products. These are part of our strategy. The question I have to ask you is this: these big and critical issues four and a half years, the problems of producers, in terms of their income and prices, I do not imagine they have arisen in six months. To agree that these are years and great problems, with which you have come to a race, you have met them. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u97	You used to yell!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u98	So I ask: in this strategic objective, in terms of these components, what have you done? Farmers' insurance: I heard that. First, allow me, did you prevent the insurance? You announced an insurance in order to spec and then the Minister came out and told you that it was only in the fantasy of "AGEY" and "SYRIZA". That's the reality. And of course, there has been an insurance policy that is viable and fully beneficial and welcome for farmers when it comes to presenting it. I live here to return to our programming. That's the semester balance sheet. Don't ever hear that there's no design! Don't let me hear that things aren't happening again! Let me not hear again that we are not working methodically and in a concrete way in order to deal with the major and acute problems of primary production! And to end with a mythology, I consider it my personal honour that I am in the Ministry of Rural Development, a great challenge, a great responsibility and I will commit and commit all my personal powers not only to me, but also to the State Secretary, the State Secretary, the Secretary-General, we have fully activated the mechanism of the Ministry, we have exploited detained executives, we have activated the Strategic Planning Council with all the directors. A coordinated policy is to be established every month. An entire mechanism has been activated with the ability of public administration officials, who have had it derelict and obsolete and are currently at the center of policy making. For our programme, I will come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor. Typically, Mr Velopoulos, you have the floor for eight minutes - typically, I say - because you have known that you have tabled and re-subscribed seven times a question to the Prime Minister for a debate on the rural economy. Of course, your speech today does not raise the question to the Prime Minister. Of course you'll take more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say - Mr Minister, I have listened very carefully to you - many years to all of us, a good year to have. I would also like to say to the Minister, because he is inaccurate - he is literally passing through - and transportly because he is serving a sentence to the Ministry of Agriculture and he seems to be. Despite what he said earlier, I believe he is serving a punishment and it is my personal view. On the other hand, I want to say that I have a complaint from the New Democracy Government and the Prime Minister, I will put it this afternoon. We, as a parliamentary group, have asked about five - six questions to the Prime Minister for the primary sector. He never came to talk. Mr. Vorides came today. I would say that the point is to listen to us, Mr Voridis, and do not say to us 'Don't hear anything again'. I understand that. The point is to hear what we are saying to you, but unfortunately, the government is not listening and does not copy at least successful recipes. I'll give you a few minutes. Of course, you said you would be interfering with your program. Did I hear all right? So you said to SYRIZA. I, Mr. Voridis, have seen a 20-page election programme of the New Democracy. He doesn't even have a So, a government with twenty-nine-page programme will be confronted with its programme? It's too easy, you know. I imagine winners will come out, because you're playing alone unless you put a lot of self-government. So you didn't have a schedule. In the program, were you saying something about scouting? I ask why you are also from sensitive ministers in relation to national issues. Were you saying such a thing about collapsing or for the collapsing of friends, since excellence went to the bells? In this 20 - page programme, then, you did not say that. I wanted to say something to SYRIZA, because I honestly have a few moments that hypocrisy bothers me. A motto of Democritus says: "Other doctor, he attracts moss". To make a performance, it is not a translation: "It is a doctor for others, but he is full of wounds." You came here today and asked a question about the primary sector. You did well. I've heard many colleagues in here talking about peaches, because they're elected in Pella, the other for sugar, because it's from Serres County. In other words, you have come here to vote, not because you are anxious about the primary sector. You're here to vote. Four and a half years you have ruled and come today and you are questioning the gentlemen of the New Democracy because they are not doing any work. You remind me of De Gaulle, who said: "To be masters again, pretend the servant." Pretend the servant of the Greek people, that you serve the Greek people and the farmer. You know that, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you could do this before. Four and a half years you haven't done anything. So, in order to be a little serious and finally to be more serious, I would like to say to the New Democracy that the words are good, but, my Minister, the success story is not destroyed, it is not destroyed, but it is over, believe me. Export brake's off. In November 2019, our exports decreased by 347 million. It's yesterday's and today's publications. Let's go down. Imports have benefited marginally. Mr Minister, there is the big problem in import and export. As you do not have a programme, I should like to inform you, Minister, that, when exports fall and imports rise, the deficit rises. These are basic things in the economy. Commercial deficit: EUR 105 million increased in November. So all this shows that growth is coming, Mr Voridis. He's coming for the casino in Greek, he's coming for the casino in Maroussi, who's preparing a new casino. Rejoice! Make Greece a great one - within introductory - “Disneyland” gamblers! To have slots in every corner, to get into gambling. I say this because, in fact, because I am a businessman and you probably don't know, Minister, that the turnover of the shops on Christmas has fallen too much. And I am not saying it, but the Institute for Trade and Services of the European Union for the Movement of the Market. Because some people were immediately thrown out of New Democracy. As soon as you say something about the New Democracy, they're flying. They have the electroshocks. People say it's a reduced rate of Christmas that hates more than business. That means something very simple. Lack of VAT, lack of tax capacity, lack of growth and move the economy and trade. So let me tell you that this is a success story and we should stop it. Now we're actually going to it. Minister, would you really like to make an incision to agriculture? Resurrect. You know, to cultivate five and ten acres in our village, because this is unfortunately the agricultural holding in Greece and it is the New Democracy - because since 1974 you have ruled with PASOK and then SYRIZA has come to put the cherry on the cake for four and a half years - you have not done the same thing. Resurrection! The Netherlands cannot have two hundred acres of large cultivating land or berths of fifty and two hundred acres, and Greece has ten acres of greenhouses and wants to produce. Do this: Bank of seeds. I've been saying it all along. Make a seed bank. We don't have one. I will not tell you in general what you say about legislation. In Greece, Minister, we are constantly legislating. The problem in Greece is that the laws we legislate do not apply. We are the only state in Europe that has such a pluralism. Every Minister makes ten laws. And we have a system - I honestly say that - detested because there is no law. And don't be fooled if the law was applied, it'd be different. Schools of food science and technology in five cities, parts with some five hundred invaders. You cannot, Minister, give me a thousand lawyers every year, but only five hundred food technicians who know that tomorrow in the economy is the food technician. The future in the world economy is food. I have been saying this for a long time, my Minister. Depending on and planning with the Ministry of Education, make university schools worthwhile to go to food technology, hybrids and all that have great added value. Don't worry about tomato and peach just. I mean, the lady from Pella came here because I come from there too - and she said about peach, because she cares about peaches of ten thousand producers. I'm interested too! My father used to grow peaches, anyway. However, if we want the farmer to receive income, he must enter the fourth generation, the fifth generation of agricultural production. We can't deal with tomato and peach yet. So here's the plan you have to make. Establishment of a Committee on primary production of livestock and agriculture. Do it. Denmark has it, the Netherlands has it, Israel has it, other countries have it. In the end, Minister, it is not difficult. Take copy of a successful program. Denmark has a very nice but also the Netherlands and Israel. You don't have to be the lighter. Take the experts and make a copy paste, as the gentleman who used to yell out here said before, and make it normal for you too. Why don't you do it? We don't have to wait to legislate. Get successful recipes. And most importantly, at last do what Donald Trump does. Prohibition of similar products grown in Greece from third countries. And there are legal ways, because you're legal. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the President of the Greek Solution bell hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, please give me some more time. I mean, when I get the tomato from Turkey, my dear Minister, if you do quality control and see what pesticide it has, you send it back. There are ways of delaying the introduction of these. The potato from Egypt is full of pesticides. So I want to tell you that this is a logic to protect our own economy in the interior. Listen to this. You have a Minister of Tourism, you have a Prime Minister. Make a decision that all the Greek hotels that will support Greek products - jam, butter and others - will have reduced taxation at the hotel, but only get Greek products. We can't go to hotels and see Lurpak. But that's how you give him an incentive to reduce his taxes. But you win, Minister, from what? From the sale of products, production, VAT and all that comes. It's such a big deal, Minister, that I honestly, if I were you, I'd copy the Swedish model. I would therefore like to say to you, Mr Minister, and I would like you to listen to me a little bit - the tax equality of farmers. Sweden: Tax on agricultural income with 28% on profits. Profits! Tax rate for young farmers 15%, tax rate for elderly farmers 10%. I'm talking about taxation and I'm doing it for just one reason. We really need to see the problem of the Greek rural economy, Minister. This is - I will be courteous to do - our programme, which is about two hundred ninety pages. I put it in the 'cd' form in the Minutes, so that we do not spend paper. Take it, read it. It concerns agriculture and it has many important proposals, mainly for superfoods. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the cd - digital storage media, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That's where the future is. billions of euros are won in Europe by superfoods, because herbs are pharmaceutical. We can create a production line of great added value. I'm doing it personally in my business, and Greece can do it too. Greece cannot introduce - I will say it directly, children, because it is shameful - hoods of apricots, as well as if it sounds strange or import raw materials produced here, from Germany, from Spain or France, to create products in Greece, while we have so many herbs! My German colleague in Germany takes a herb that exists only in Xanthi Prefecture. Takes it and creates superfoods in goodwill 7,100 on price. Do a programme in particular, because the farmer with five or ten acres can gain huge amounts, and it doesn't have to be the tomato and water our production does not have to be. I won't say about milk. I, if I were a government, would have already closed the borders in Bulgaria and Romania. I would have shut it down easily, again with quality checks, not illegally. Because some do not understand what I say and are easy to learn, I will tell them this: Bulgarian milk cannot be sliced Greek! The law forbids it! That is what I mean when I say 'I close the border with Bulgaria'. He can't bring me milk and fetish me in Greece! The law says the feta has Greek milk! Half-mortem has limits at last in here, because I see some people smile! They have the glasses, too! Hey, let them open a book! In 2009, we introduced thirty-two thousand tonnes of dairy. We're talking about three hundred and thirty-two thousand tons! Of these, the two hundred and ninety-three thousand tonnes, my Minister - and passing through - were from France. We imported milk from France, from the Netherlands and Germany. We imported milk from Germany! I'm telling you specific things. Of course, I will not say about feta, because feta covers 30% of European demand and 10% of world demand. So while it is our brand name or feta, we cannot cover either European demand or global demand. I'm telling you what I would do if I was a minister. I would be motivated to produce more milk to make more slices, since it is my brand name and has a designation of origin, in order to export it and come to me for foreign exchange. And it's not that hard, and I'll tell you why. There have been criminal mistakes. I was saying, my dear Minister, that we can have spice plants from superfoods. In the program I have tabled, Minister, I have their names. They are fourteen products that can pay EUR 2,500 per acre - Minister, listen to the number - when today the farmer wins per acre 110 euros. With this very tactic, it can also have EUR 2,500 per acre price of producer. Some things may sound strange, but I don't tell you legal and legal, as you know. I say to you that I do this myself and I apply it from production to standardization and export. Velopoulos does it himself in his companies. So to do it, Greece can do it too. It's not that hard. You want to talk about it? Would you like me to send our own experts to discuss with your own, and to put the plan into practice? Otherwise, it can't be done. Also, listen a little, to understand why it's very important. Previously, I said we were importing. We import thyme and chamomile from Egypt, oregano and lavender from Albania, nuts and almonds from Bulgaria, peanuts and chestnuts from Turkey, to sesame from Sudan. Well, the last one I understand. Also, Lithuania and China honey are in Greece, when Greek beekeepers have the best honey worldwide. And instead of strengthening them, we're moving from China honey, you guys from Lithuania too! I'm only telling you one example you don't know for sure. Albanians, Minister, steal from Grammos the primula veris plant. Do you know what that plant means, Minister? I'll give you a number. The dried primula veris costs 50,000 euros a kilo. Ask the experts. It's a medicinal product.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u101	What do we do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u102	The Albanians are standardizing it, they are sending it to France and the French are making it a product's added value. There's 50,000 euros a kilo! The Albanians enter our Pindo with mules and make the harvest - herb - they take it to their country and that is where they export it. Because we have at least seven thousand herbs in Greece, two thousand seven hundred geniuses, we can do business. I am really sad to say to you, because the primary sector is very important. I shall close, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - with something else. Minister, I'm really embarrassed. I'll see the Prime Minister soon. We will talk about Turkey's provocativeness. I will say this: is it possible for Turkey to challenge and not to have done something as politicians - I am not saying as government - to boycott Turkish products? They have done so in northern Iraq - I have the documents in front of me - and they lost about 500,000, 000 in three months the Turks - here are, to give it, and the tables - of the northern Iraqi who have banned Turkish products. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greece gives EUR 2,000,000 each year to Turkey. Listen: Rice, wheat, flour, lentils, tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, cauliflowers, cotton, shellfish, pigs, pineapples, tea, spoon sweets, cocoa powder take from Turkey and is a lot of products, i.e.: electrical appliances, furskins, natural gas, textiles, toys. And I ask you: My enemy, who wants to claim Aegean, Crete, Kastelorizo, I feed him with money to buy and create weapons. What reasonable country would it not find any deterrent measures? I am not saying that they will close the borders, but as a third country I can go to the European Union and say: 'Lords, up here'. I must do something not to feed Turkey." Do an embargo - for me it is called 'anti-measures' - on provocative Turkey. We can do this, we can create it, as long as there is will. And - here is the point - I would like to tell you something that displeased me, I will not say anything about olive oil. The Prime Minister himself in a statement said he would close the mills. The country's Prime Minister in Crete in a statement before the elections said he would shut down the olive mills because they are many. Because McKinsey, you know, the well-known company that has made the known formula, said that they have to shut down the oil mills in Greece and stay two - three multinationals. I didn't understand that. Do we have to close all the olive mills in Greece so that the multinationals can work? Another private initiative and another job in the multinationals. It's completely different things. Because I, too, am on the private initiative, but when the olive oil, the gold of Greece, gives me 500,000,000 exchange, on exports of 500,000, 000, and the Italian takes it with the tank, with the cane and it does it in goodwill in Harrods in London and sells the Greek oil 30 and 40 Euros 200 ml, something you haven't done well, my Minister, since 1974, and not you, were not in New Democracy, but I see many who were forty - forty years in New Democracy, and they are co-responsible with the PASOK and the rest of the parties. And also, apart from the oil, I'm going to tell you something that honestly...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u103	But very quickly, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u104	Yes, Mr President, I apologise, but I asked the Prime Minister five times and he didn't come. What am I supposed to do? I have to say it all together now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u105	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u106	Israel, you know Israel. Thousands of tomato hybrids produced by Israel, Mr. Larisa, weighing five grams - are hybrids - are sold at 250 euros! I'll send it to your office if you want. Listen to the number: A thousand tomato hybrids weighing five grams are sold 250 euros! A kilo costs over 50,000 euros. The rich buy it, of course, some miserable, poor, I don't know what else, Russian rich, tycoons, but it's very important to understand that we have to get into the hybrids to do goodwill on various products. I'm telling you, why? Because we don't have a seed bank. We don't have seed banks! It's unbelievable! What? Israel, which is a waste of land! Thirty-forty years ago Israel did not produce anything, and now it has exports 75,000,000 euros, when Greece, which is my Minister for Agriculture, my Minister, has 15,000,000,000,000 worth and 6,000,000 million exports. For what agriculture, what primary sector do you tell me, when the farmer has the highest taxation, the most expensive fuels, he makes seeds, the import of machinery, all imported? In order to become a farmer, Minister, it must spend huge sums of money in order to make a small agricultural enterprise, if the agricultural sector and the whole of this story are called a business. But, Minister, because I am bored - I understand it - I want to tell you something. See what you're going to do with the veins.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u107	With who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u108	Vidzotrats. You don't know them. You don't have to, even though Larissa has the greatest coastline. Vinchotras are a method of getting nets down from the bottom and getting under what's there and there's no. They have devastated the Aegean Sea, my Minister, the offspring, they have devastated everything, I know what I'm saying to you! And especially the Turks. That's what I'm telling you, the Turks. So pressure the European Union to ban the Turks from destroying our environment, our Aegean Sea, our blue sea. And there's a way. Because the vivotra murders the sea, the fish and all the wealth the bottom has in it. It's my inducement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u109	That's forbidden anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u110	I'm telling you one more thing. In order to agree that it is forbidden, I told you beforehand that there are laws, but they are not implemented. Because it cannot, my dear friend, - let me tell you otherwise - the issue of fishermen belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u111	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u112	It must belong to the Ministry of Shipping.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u113	But that's another matter. On one hand, you go to the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u114	Are you kidding me now? The Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister for Fisheries? To understand what we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u115	We've spent a lot of time. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u116	I'm hanging up here. Now can I tell you something last time you smile? I know you have a sense of humor. You made the Greek Army bankers, you know, you made them dressers. Did you hear? "In supplying five thousand beds and beds, the General Staff proceeds. Value: 1.4 million.' I'm going to ask Minister Voridis if the sheets and pillows were sub-allergic for illegal immigrants, Ibrahim and Hassan. Because you have a weakness, as I see it, as a New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. Mr Apostle, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, many years, a good year. Minister, we read you yesterday. I'd like you to keep an eye on me, if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u119	I'm watching you. We have remained at 'we read you yesterday'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u120	You shouldn't have interviewed him. We heard you on repetition today. It seems that with our timely question you have had to place yourself on the real problems of the rural area, because we are used to you constantly going around your perceptions that, in order to enforce the law and order - you have done so today, starting with your speech - wood is an element of forcedness and if there is a possibility you can find a few words about the problems of farmers, of course always in the context of the well-known extreme - neoliberal views of your Government. Most of what you have said to my colleagues who sign the question has been placed in a thorough and documented manner and has restored your positions. You asked us: 'What did you do?' We've done a lot, but today we're asking you what you're doing. This is the subject of the question. And because we are at a time when farmers are preparing to mobilise because the assessment of their incomes has nothing to do with the expectations you have created them, I would like to warn you about these views on forcedness to forget them. If your government attempts to use them for protests and claims, starting with farmers, it will find us in front of it. Why, Minister, should the olive growers not react once the Minister has assured them that it is controlling the markets - to take care of your phrases - they see the price of oil that surpassed last year's 3 euros to make it difficult to spend 2 euros? Why should ovine and caprine animals, for example, not react when seeing the minister who would control milk prices, undermine their own presence in the interprofessional feta organisation by reducing their representation to 15%? Minister, you have managed an institution that could offer much to turn it into a tool to claim chairs on the boards of directors. You have broken up every effort of consensual operation, which we have done for two years so that we can implement it and implement it. You have also been in the ministry since the first day you have been in a position to salvage the cooperative space, and this is reflected in the bill you brought. In particular, with the regulation you are proposing for private individuals to enter the capital of agricultural cooperatives and even with the right to participate in the administrative boards, you are scandalously favouring all those who want to pass on the assets of cooperatives with very little money to natural persons. Do you know which cooperatives will make use of the provisions you vote for? Those behind them who are malicious competitors, themselves or with adolescents, to obtain firsthand useful information such as prices, quantities, customers, stocks, etc. As far as 35% is concerned, it will not be difficult for these individuals to find out from the schemes involving volunteers to reach 50% plus 1, i.e. actually to salt the space through this process. Minister, there will be no serious cooperatives that will implement this law. They'll feed the bones even of your partner Baltaji. Your intentions are obvious. On the one hand, you want to serve specific interests, such as those relating to your amendment to Kiato, and on the other hand to hand over the cooperative space to those who have been diluting him for years. Your amendment, Minister, was unconstitutional. Whatever you say, this amendment has unequivocally called into question judicial power, and it has also been unacceptable, because it is not possible when cases in the CSCE are concerned. They are cancelled before the ink of decisions is dried, that the government should come and overthrow these decisions. We have made institutional intervention in the cooperative sector to deal with the incomprehensibility and mismanagement that has existed for years in the area and on your own governments, by voting for a law - the framework of cooperation which establishes incentives for collective forms of organisation, cooperatives, producer groups and organisations. L.4384/2016 worked effectively, because he helped clear the scenery from the existing shells. Of six and a half thousand cooperatives we found today, eight hundred of whom are young, and with these cooperatives, we went to deal with the big problem that we inherited from your own governments, the recovery of EUR 470 million. It will be reduced thanks to the efforts we have made to the sum of 90 million, and of course you will soon come out and announce it as your success. I come, Minister, to the CFP issues, which you have forgotten to mention today, because we consider this to be the major issue in rural areas today. In a timely question we had met some time ago, you agreed with our position that we are negative both to any reduction in the resources of the common agricultural policy and, of course, to the total external convergence of aid, contrary to both. Since then, Minister, a great deal has been done without you to take advantage of the positive climate that we have delivered to you and the alliances that we have secured you. With the joint memorandum that we signed in Madrid in 2017 with the Ministers for Agriculture of Spain, France, Portugal, Ireland and Finland, we asked for the current resources for the common agricultural policy to be managed. And this memorandum, when it came to the Agriculture Council, was supported by nine other ministers and I would say that it has found too much response, and at least our sense was that the majority of the Council of Ministers adopts this memorandum. As far as the other issue is concerned, convergence, as you know, after long and hard negotiations of our own, with our own insistence and active involvement, of course, we have also achieved a significant change in the proposal that the European Commission had initially put forward, the removal of the final text of the Presidency conclusions of the full text, which means that we have saved the situation of losses close to 50% of direct payments. And this proposal was voted in favour of twenty-three countries, then supported by Commissioner Hogan and adopted in substance by the European Commission's final proposals. For the same thing, following our own initiative, countries such as Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark, Cyprus, Slovenia sent a joint document to the European Commission, which now exists, in order to avoid the question of full convergence. From your point of view, Mr Minister, we have not seen any mobility. From the report by the recent Agriculture Council, it appears that Germany has concluded an agreement with Spain and France on the new CAP with the same content as the memorandum. I would like to ask you this. Why didn't we - you - participate in this agreement, when we had taken the lead in the previous similar agreement? Do you not want to support the alliance that we have created and which seemed to threaten the majority of the Agriculture Council? What concerns us in particular is the importance of the Finnish Presidency to introduce, before delivery to Croatia, a proposal for a minimum level of aid, per hectare, for direct payments by 2017, when the three proposals of the European Commission, to which there is no such reference, had already been tabled. Why did you leave without support your Italian colleague's attempt to support what we have earned, not to enter the convergence process with a unique element of the extent? We have invoked and I would tell you that a number of other elements relating to the relationship between convergence and the countries concerned have already been accepted. Of course, there is also one question, Mr Minister, concerning the attitude of the new Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Vojcehovski, on which you must inform us. This is a very serious matter. However, since we are talking about the new CAP, there are some issues that need to be speeded up, such as the preparation of its strategic plan. Why are you delaying the assignment of the ex - ante study and the risk management study, which are prerequisites for the submission of the strategic plan? Why, too, are you delaying the decisions and consultation on strategic choices concerning, for example, the way in which payment entitlements are allocated, the related payments, the definition of the real farmer, the ecological patterns, etc.Huh? And let me say a few words - Mr President, a tolerance - for the current Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020. You have finally recognised that you have received a programme of satisfactory commitment and absorption. I would like to remind you by the end of 2018 of the activation of the majority of the Rural Development Programme, which exceeds 91% and those which exceed 84% and indeed, by means of calls for significant financial measures. As I also remind you of absorption at the end of 2019 at 50.5% and payments at the same time at 600 million. But there too, Mr Minister, you have problems where you need to run: firstly, the preparation and notice of the agricultural advisory measure and the training of young farmers. Both measures are an obligation in the new programming period and we should invest in their successful activation from the current period. Secondly, you said, it is an issue that concerns a great many people, and it is the implementation of the major public works that have been integrated into the OAS. Thirty-three large projects of public spending of 450 million must go ahead, because a long period of maturation and auction is needed, but any delay in awarding, you can see that it will cause us a huge problem in the next programming period. In my denture I may say more about the Rural Development Programme. In conclusion, however, I should like to stress two moves which will enable successful completion of the programme which no one had before. Firstly, we have successfully fulfilled the objectives of the performance framework at the end of 2018, ensuring the possibility of using funds of 253 million from the performance reserve provided for by the European Union. And, secondly, we created the Guarantee Fund, with the European Investment Fund running, which will provide funds of more than 400 million to finance private participation in the improvement plans. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] And since you mentioned the improvement plans, I would like to say that the delay in the evaluation of the improvement plans was the result of the outstandingness of the Association of Representatives and, in general, of the SCAs. They were stalling. They wanted - and they insisted - more than their own funding. And you realise that the Ministry had to protect this money, but at the same time not to get involved in procedures that showed that we have overpriced here, that we have issues which are very serious here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u121	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u122	So it seems to you that you have certainly dismantled this measure, but at the same time you have met the demands of those who have actually caused the delay. I'm saying this to have a clear relationship between us. We, Minister, have kept the rural area up, so today we will be with him, because in the battle that is coming - and you know that it is coming because the rural world is already experiencing difficult situations - we will be with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much. Since I've been up here, wish you many years, good year, whatever you wish, health, happiness, and your families. Moving on to you too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories they attend the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th New Smyrna High School. The House welcomes you. Happy birthday, health, happiness in your families. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Spelion Lebanese, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u124	Thank you for the Autumn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u125	Let's say where you're from.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u126	That's right. I'm sick. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good year from me to everyone. And, by the way, I wanted to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for the first parliamentary gift you gave us this year, in 2020, to have a good bike. In practical terms, with your choice today to talk about agricultural policy, you were going to show that we do not have a rural policy. That's what you said at the beginning. But what happened? You're here for hair, and you're out of your hair! You have practically been exposed, you have lost politically, and you have helped the Minister recall once again what he has done for six months at the Ministry. As an exception, we welcome you as a New Democracy in the form of parliamentary control. We want and I invite you to do so often, to do so constantly and to do so in all the areas of our policy. The result of what we have seen today, this parliamentary defeat by the answers you have received from the Minister for Rural Development, will be constantly seen in the coming months if you speed up your party gymnastics. What's going to happen? You will also be subject to other parliamentary and political defeats. You will effectively highlight the well-established and realistic work of the government and will of course always remember, when you come up to this step, the Greeks and the Greeks, your government service, the lack of your policy and any disastrous presence in any Ministries, with the policy you had and condemned by the Greek people. I would like to say something, however, and I am sorry to say that. The leadership of your party, because you do not like to be called a 'order' - a bit has been played by you who are dealing with agricultural issues. He put you first in this process and threw you in the arena, so that you would suffer the coldness first. You have actually been exposed for five reasons today. The first is that when Mr Vorides rose up to answer the questions you asked him - and there were too many - not even a third of the Members who signed this proposal were not in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u127	What do you think? We were in the Chamber all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u128	It wasn't even 1/3. Look at the video and count. Arithmetic until 51, you know, I imagine. The worst thing you know is, my colleague? That it was not even 1/4 of your Members when your Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Apostle, who served for many years as Minister for Rural Development and with passion himself and for the good of the farmers, tried, when he was the same Minister. This demonstrates your sensitivity and practically shows that you are not interested in the rural population - I mean the whole group, not you who are still here - as a party and as an ideology. The second is that, in fact with today's debate, you have made yourself known. You have completely ruled yourself because you accused the Ministry of Rural Development of lack of politics. But all the speeches, which I have heard very much, were actually referred to and made a criticism - good or bad, I will not go into this at this stage in my speech - of the policy of the Ministry. So he or she doesn't have a policy, so he doesn't exercise it or have a policy, and you're criticizing him. Thirdly, you have attempted to give an ideological tone to confront two - three points with a generalist, vague, anachronistic, general-left political approach and some of you spokesmen, accusing Mr Vorides, who, every time he enters the Chamber, bites your presence and electricity you, for the reason of the government and the law and order himself. I therefore reply on behalf of the New Democracy that either the 'law and order', which Vorides says, or the rule of law and security, which I prefer to say, we as a party and our government will be here to put an end to the mess you left behind. He'll be here to put limits on society and protect democracy. Your fourth mistake. In high tones, Mr Apostlelos, whom I am watching because I come from a rural region - and I really think you have worked hard for the years that you have been there, you have been quite a long time - I think he has made a mistake today. You've fallen, Mr. Apostleu, and you're on the face of populism. What did you tell us practically? For oil, let's say, prices fall on the market, but also for other problems, which Mr. Vorides answered before, and for some reason you will be responding to his denology, you will go down to the streets with farmers. I would just like to remind you that two of your former ministers have attempted this. Mr Tsakalotos attempted it and all trade unionists laughed, especially those from the Left of the JRC. Mr friend, whom I personally appreciate, even though ideologically we are right across the street when he went to ASEAN and you remember what happened in front of television cameras. It would be a good thing if you now become a government party to change your logic. Come with arguments that are welcome, especially when they are thoroughly and technocratically supported. The fifth and worst of your concerns, which led you to today's political defeat in Parliament, is something that I will simply read to you, because it was submitted to this Chamber on 11-1-2019 on a question that was then accepted by the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arachovitis. I read the question to you, and I shall present it immediately to you in the Minutes: 'We have just heard two speeches', the then Minister, Mr Arachovitis, and the Deputy Secretary of State, Mr Tyloridou, 'without any vision of agricultural production', said the honourable Members at that time. "I hope the farmers," they said, "to follow the debate on the topical question and see that there is no rural development plan for today and the next day." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis (Spilios) Lebanese, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Who says that? What kind of words are these? Unfortunately for you, it's Mr. Theoharopoulou. Mr Theocharopoulos reminds you that he is the director of your parliamentary group today. So either Mr. Theocharopoulos was right or you as ministers and then you were right in government or, in any case, you are also mocking us and him. What did the man say? He said his opinion. I honor Mr. Theocharopoulos, but you see that you're coming for wool and you're leaving lazy. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why are you laughing? Is he the director of your parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u129	It's your own subjective judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u130	No, I filed it. It's Mr. Theocharopoulos' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u131	Mr Lebanese did not say that he likes dialogue. Don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u132	Anyway, read it and come and tell us. We expect you to answer for Mr. Theocharopoulos. Don't forget that. I would suggest with all due respect and decency that you make self-criticism at the beginning and especially those who have chosen ministers, because only then will the Greek people, the Greeks and the Greeks listen carefully. Because when you don't make any self-criticism and think you've done everything fantasticly, obviously no one listens to you. Because I don't want to abuse the nobility of the President, I can't get into the rest of what I wanted to say. I want to say one thing about the Prime Minister's choice to appoint Mr. Voridis to the Ministry. You say that often, they call it journalists to whom you obviously do. I've known Mr. Voridis for too many years, I think thirty-five. I understand why you're saying it. Because you see his leading skills and think it's a tight costume of the Minister of Rural Development. I would remind you, on the other hand, of the political spectrum that the Minister in this ministry was responsible for Mr Simitis. You know he later became Prime Minister. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Secondly, the current Prime Minister, who also knows Mr Vorides from a long time ago and is aware of his potential, seems to me to have made a right move. He has put a man who has a greater political displacement in a position, in a party of our policy precisely because he considers it extremely important. And since he considers it extremely important, he took a predicted, first classic, as they say, a member of the party with special abilities to place a leader of this effort. Obviously, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly said, Mr Vorides and the government and the Prime Minister themselves will be judged on the results of their policy. Thank you very much and I wish, instead of being on the streets and ridicule trains - we remember who was up there - that you were with us technically and with thorough proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. Mr. Panos has the floor from the Change Movement for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I turn to the issue of the timely question by the Members of the Officerate on the primary sector of the country, I should like to remind you that, at the beginning of this year, the Group of the Parliamentary Party of the Change Movement also asks a timely question about this neural, admittedly a sector of the country's economy. This question will be discussed within the next few days and we will be given the opportunity to develop our full criticism of the policies pursued by the government in the agricultural sector, but also to formulate our positions in detail, which we are presenting every opportunity, because we in the Change Movement believe that the primary sector is a lever for the development of the economy and of the country's society. After all, it is a multiplicity of the activities of our parliamentary group and the initiatives it has taken on these issues in the rural development sector, which I have the honour of taking part in Parliament. To be specific, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on a few key points. Since last year, when the current question of the Change Movement was discussed at the same chairs, addressing the relevant Minister of Government SYRIZA, what has changed for the Greek producer, farmer, beekeeper, fishermen, small and medium-sized farmers? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen. The problems remain large and unsolved. The Change Movement has not stopped showing parliamentary, but before all the relevant institutions, all the serious issues of the agricultural world, some of which are the following. Firstly, the non-adaptation of the ELGA insurance regulation and the lack of elementary preparation for the increasing damages to climate change, and the time to pay compensation has increased very much. Secondly, the indifference, the inability to apply minimum rules on the market in products, so that the production of milk, olive oil, cotton and other products is the result of harmonised practices and illegal Greekisations, accompanied by a great deal of time for the repayment of their sales invoices. Thirdly, the high delay in the implementation and failure of the tacosty in recent years, which devaluates olive cultivation and reduces the income of producers. The delay in the use of the resources of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. Since the improvement plans for the modernisation of farms have not yet been adopted, the programmes for protecting against the dangers of climate change are being delayed and the organic farming and livestock programmes have failed. Problems continue. I add: the inability to support the interests of the country's products in the European Union and in international agreements, as well as the protection of PDO products, such as feta, and the protection against unfair conditions on imports of olive oils. Failure to draw up the necessary national strategic plan for the primary sector, not only for their development, but also for the recovery of Community aid in the period 2021-2027. Minister, with the means of parliamentary control available to us as a parliamentary group, we have in the six months before you all the questions that concern the rural world are summarised in the following: Is there a national climate crisis planning that the country is experiencing? How are the consequences of extreme weather events prevented? Why is damage recovery so delayed? How are the crops shielded and how is farmers' incomes being protected, which collapses with continuing tax burdens and great insurance contributions? Does the government really have a plan to use the country's natural resources in the food and energy sectors? Has the Ministry responsible realised the integrity of agricultural production with the climate and that ways of reviving the environmental crisis through the primary sector should be sought? Many issues need to be resolved, therefore, before the situation becomes irreversible. Farmers, Minister, expect to see from you acts, plans and initiatives. You bring a proposal for a law, which is in consultation, on agricultural cooperatives. After all, we are the first to support the simplification of the institutional framework, the flexibility at organisational level and the immediate adaptation to market rules so that agricultural interests do not become the prerogative of the current government policies. But it is not only your activation in this direction. Strong intervention is needed, with intensification of controls, the publicity of infringements, the imposition of fines and the elimination of phenomena that kneel the agricultural sector and want the farmer to give up production. For the young farmer, the lack of financial aid and, at the same time, the burden-sharing creates a disincentive to the industry. We therefore regret to note, Minister, that there is a stagnation and there is no rapid implementation of a plan. For now, we have only promises. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a little comment on your own policy in the agricultural sector, because you were the ones who took measures, which they also wrote a negative sign in this area. If I do not go into detail, I will mention only the characteristic example of olive oil, which this year is experiencing a great price crisis, which concerns almost all rural areas. One cannot forget the day of signature in the year 2015 of the introduction into Greece of thirty-five thousand tonnes of duty-free oil from Tunisia, which has thrown the price and competitiveness of the Greek, higher quality, olive oil on the tartar and has since introduced such practices. This situation, and I conclude, Mr President, cannot continue. The Greek producer and the original Greek product must finally be shielded and if the government is responsible for this purpose, then tell us who it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Pana. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u136	Have a good year, colleagues, health. Are farmers' problems today? I'm talking about small and medium-sized farmers. Not, of course, since the policies of the European Union and the Greek governments with their measures aim to speed up the concentration of the land, production and marketing of agricultural products in the hands of the big businessmen and the monopoly groups. This means further removal of small and medium-sized farmers and farmers. That's what we're experiencing. The tools are known. At European Union level 80% of subsidies to 20% of farmers. 20% of subsidies to 80% of small and medium-sized farms, i.e. crumbs and nothing. That's not all. And at government level you're helping. You are helping the governments of the Member States and Greece: taxfree, carpeting in EVA's insurance contributions. And yet, 50% of farmers have no pay, it's insecure. Characterising the ELGA who pays extremely expensively, but not all disasters are covered in 100% - and all this with a delay - in ENPIA, in the green end to irrigation and a number of others. You are still putting back on the snatching of big-time dealers and monopolies for degrading prices, unpaid productions, because there are no minimum guaranteed prices. Yes, you all deny it for the guaranteed prices: Governments of the New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK. Why? Because industrialists are supporting both the big traders and their profits. You are talking about free market for supply and demand. Why, though, is the price of the kilowatt from wind parks and their compulsory sale to PPC fixed? Why do shipowners whenever they want to upload ticket prices? So you see? Two yards and two weights. You are talking about rural development, of course capitalist, which means greater profitability for monopolies and indebted small and medium-sized farmers and farmers. Your difference is management. Your strategy is the same, identical, and the examples are many. Can I have some? Exports of record feta over the years, and the crisis, but the price of sheep's milk below production costs, below 90 minutes and below 1995 levels. EUROSTAT gives that 50% of the feta is produced in eleven only companies in Greece. You see who improves profitability and competitiveness, while thousands of farmers are torn apart. That's the role of Interprofessional, which you were fighting for. Olive oil prices? In Lesvos, 1,95 euros. In Messinia and Laconia 2,10 euros. Extreme prices and yet oil is sold very expensively in supermarkets and markets abroad. The same for cotton, peaches and other products. Since 2000, the use of fertilisers, pesticides, veterinary medicines and, of course, not for environmental reasons or for the protection of public health has been reduced by some 50%. It is simply that a majority has no money, it is indebted and cannot provide adequate care for herbal and animal capital, it is crushed by monopolies, what sells extremely expensively all agricultural supplies and buys poorly, literally, agricultural production. At the same time, they remain untapped or destroyed productive potential is being destroyed. Greek Sugar Industry: All of you contributed to her death. Or Operational Fisheries Programme, which finances withdrawals and burning of fishing vessels. That's a very productive process! But also in tax, you have promoted exemption from excise duty on shipowners and industrialists, but not on the farms, and you had promised it in the Larisa Square by electoral means, provided there is a surplus. There was a surplus, arable oil didn't exist. SYRIZA rejected the JRC's amendments on cheap agricultural current and oil. So your confrontation, your strategy, because it is the European Union. That is why the agreement on the European Investment Fund to secure a new financial instrument, through the Rural Development Programme. Yes, the SYRIZA government designed it and implemented it. Needless for big farmers, industrialists, big traders to ensure cheap access to cheap lending. That's why Mr. Vorides started from that, highlight your understanding. Where you're stopping, today's people are continuing. In this direction you also use cooperatives to concentrate production on behalf of processors and trade monopolies and increase labour productivity, through common cultivation methods, verticalisation of production, better access to the construction of business groups of processing and marketing. In addition, Mr Voridis clearly analysed it. But what didn't he tell us? That is the way to control and displace small production from large, without the immediate expropriation of small and medium-sized farmers. And how do you respond to today's demands and the mobilisation of the farm? With authoritarianism and terrorism, farm court in Full. A new prosecution against thirty-three farmers in Messinia, who took part in the 2016 mobilisations. The case-file was formed on the SYRIZA. They shall be tried in the New Republic. The state works well, it keeps doing when it's going to become popular mobilisations. The same was done - undermining - the right to strike. The SYRIZA government started it, the current New Democracy. You are annoyed by the struggles of the farm, so in today's topical question neither the agricultural courts nor the authoritarian categorical charge of the New Democracy government, who used chemical, tear gas and grooves toward farmers in Crete a month ago, nor put the MATs to the farmers of Carditsa who set up a fighter and mass block, so did Larissa. You are trying, in other words, to prevent them from participating in the new cycle of racing mobilizations. That is why the answer should be the solidarity and strengthening of the agricultural mobilisations which they have announced for the last 10 days of the Genoese federations and agri-food associations, as well as the support for their requests. However, the way out and the final solution lies in the socialisation of the concentrated means of production of state infrastructure, trade and the development of production with central scientific design, which will make full use of the country's productive potential, will improve productivity and, of course, outside the commitments of the EU-NATO imperialist alliances. This means reversal of the rotten capitalist movement, which is consistently serving, and imposing a quality, superior, socialist way of production, which will focus on man and satisfy their needs, hence small and medium-sized farmers, who are not only the income, but health, education, social welfare and a number of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The Houseary Representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u138	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to wish everyone a good and calm year. Before entering the essence of the topical question tabled by SYRIZA, it is worth standing at the time of the statement, which has taken place some time before the annual rural movement begins, while it has already been announced that a pan-agricultural rally in Thessaloniki is scheduled on February 1st. The truth is - and we all know it - that the development and implementation of a good agricultural policy has not so far been achieved in our country. If we look at statements from the stakeholders, we will understand the problem a little better in the current period. As the President of the United Union of Agricultural Associations of Larissa, Mr. Rizzos Maroudas, the 'open' and 'unacceptable low prices' of producer in the majority of agricultural products, such as cotton, peaches and oil, as well as the high cost of production, due to the refusal of this government to implement the request of farmers for duty-free oil, as is the case in the shipyard and industrial sector, is stepping up the problems faced by Greek farmers, which are already, because of the economic crisis, inexpensive. At the same time, the situation of the ELGA, which does not recognise and compensate for all the disasters, while the government is promoting the entry of private insurance into agricultural insurance, but also the fear of a possible increase in farmers' insurance contributions, are even worsening the situation. What do we say as Mera25 on agricultural policy? Some very brief and basic points: Firstly, food self-sufficiency, with quality products produced by protecting soil, biodiversity, natural resources and cultural heritage. Secondly, mild fishing, with a limit on the number of farms. Thirdly, systematic restriction of pesticides and soil improvers used and full exclusion of mutated organisms and chemical pesticides. Fourthly, the emphasis on organic production. Fifth, continuous cleansing of forest land. Sixth, water saving and reuse of it. Seventh, use of residues for bioenergy, fertilizer, compost. Eighth, the restructuring of crops in a manner consistent with local conditions. With regard to the agricultural cooperatives, the fixed position of Mera25 is the need for cooperatives in agricultural production, with a view to developing economies of scale, which reduces the cost of production, cooperatives, however, following the course of the agricultural product from sowing to distribution in retail. This is how the middle-sellers - wholesalers, who are essentially renegotiating the goodwill of our farmers, are overridingly overriding the issue of the very low producer prices. At the same time, any aid and support policy should work proliferationally for large farms, while for the CFP, which has proved to be abstract, has turned the multitude of small, medium-sized and medium-sized farmers into stewards who are chasing the subsidy rather than the qualitative and competitive ones on the world production markets, we consider it necessary that it should also be restructured in order to support farmers positively and by promoting quality production. A crucial issue that would be of value to be raised for discussion today, but does not choose to include it in its current question of Certification, is the question of financing agricultural production, as we all know very well that the exercise of rural activity requires continuous liquidity and access to cheap working capital. Previously, the first period after its creation was the Agricultural Bank, which we all remember started this way, so it was created, as a state pillar producing cheap liquidity to our farmers, in order to move into another credit institution for loans, especially in the first period of the euro, until it was sold to Piraeus Bank. So today, when there is no such support institution, it would really be worth discussing how it can be provided to farmers. Furthermore, let us not forget that both major parties support contractual agriculture, a type of agriculture which brings the compactness of the producer to the affiliations of a large company that processs the raw material and has the final product on the market, on the one hand, and the bank, on the other, which lends, on the basis of the contract with the company, the producer. Therefore, we have the total downgrading of the farmer to a quasi-corporate employee of the processing and disposal of the final product, while agricultural production is becoming a game for the large, large companies and banks. In closing, I will return to the all-communication utility of this question in terms of Officership. I would mention that it has only a communication character and a reason for it, because similarly - and my colleague, the Parliamentary representative from the Change Movement - the question had also been tabled by PASOK, when SYRIZA and ANEL were governed. Its theme was "the failed policy of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL has led farmers to despair". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. As the then PASOK question to the co-operation government claimed, "it is clear now to Greek farmers that you have neither objectives nor specific National Production Reconstruction Plans that take advantage of the comparative advantages of the agricultural sector to play a leading role in raising the national economy. In fact, you don't have a Rural Development Programme. Indeed, this inexistence became apparent, as well as during the SYRIZA period, we had agricultural mobilisations. In fact, if we look back on photographs of 2015 and 2016, we will see farmers in 2015 who were next to officials of today's Anti-Population Officer and celebrated before SYRIZA took over the government to accept chemicals in the 2016 Athens blocks. If that is not hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen, I really cannot imagine what it is. Therefore, it would be harmless if, instead of stunning moves, SYRIZA chose to make a kind of self-criticism and to consider his own things in rural policy. For example, SYRIZA's colleagues spoke before, implying to the Minister that he has done nothing about the Greek Sugar Industry. What did SYRIZA do? It led the Greek Sugar Industry to the complete depreciation and the definitive closure of the active factories. At the same time, we had a great increase in the excise oil tax, the abolition of its refund to farmers, but also the delay in paying 2015 for two years. We had an increase in the price of the agricultural stream, excise duty on wine. There is no doubt that agricultural policy requires a central national plan with a dual objective. On the one hand, funding must take place without the private, profitable criteria of contract agriculture, with very low interest rates and great facilities. On the other hand, agricultural production in Greece must finally be interconnected with tourism, thus increasing the added value of the "heavy industry" of our country, which bleeds due to imports in order to satisfy our domestic needs, but also tourists, even in products that we should have adequacy, such as milk, citrus fruit, olive oil, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. The first cycle of the topical question will be closed with a five-minute intervention by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish, in my turn, that we have a good year, fertile and, above all, productive. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in listening to you, just seven months from the time you left, in fact, the government headquarters to speak with such a plausible veto on agricultural policy, I think - at least I would say - provocative to come here and, in essence, forget your achievements at the Ministry of Rural Development, your mistakes, your omissions, your tax and tax policy, and, of course, the policy that you have pursued on the substantial unequalisation of the valuable Community funds of the Rural Development Programme, Mrs Skoufa, and the operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u141	I shall ask for the floor on personal grounds. He referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u142	Ask the floor for another reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u143	I have listened very carefully to you express your pain to the tax policy being pursued, namely, the reduction of taxes that our Government has achieved, fully following its election commitments. I have heard you talk about tax reductions, when you are the government, Mrs Skoufa - I do not suppose you will forget it, unless you confess that we are chosen here with loaf-eaters - which you have taxed from 13% to 22% to 45%, you who have obviously prevented the tax on farmers from increasing, when it is your government which has for the first time taxed agricultural subsidies. It's really challenging to come here and move our finger! You also spoke with pains about agricultural oil and the increase in production costs, which, of course, meant, when you were the government that slashed in October 2016 and October 2017, respectively, of EUR 80 million and of EUR 80 million from the reimbursement of excise duty on agricultural oil, to which we paid as government, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, a sum of EUR 130 to 160 million every year. You spoke about the Rural Development Programme. You are obviously forgetting that the previous government of your own - with a trunk of New Democracy - has given you a programme for rural development of EUR 6 billion, which - listen, listen! - it was the last one adopted at Member State level of the European Union, the European family of twenty-eight, in December 2015, because you did not have the diligence and adequacy to meet the requirements of the European Commission for any corrections made in all rural development programmes, and this is a consistent European Commission tactic before a Rural Development Programme is adopted. You left it last of them. And you dare talk about a table with ready dishes, when the only absorption you have actually achieved and achieved over the four and a half years of your governance was the forward distribution of compensation of EUR 816 million? We have said many times in this Step and in the public debate that you were really the people who have left to glean the productive, development, investment funds of the Rural Development Programme. Trained examples are the improvement plans - Mr Voridis told you very well - and he really stacked you - that you did not tell us that, Mr Arachovitis - seven extensions over your days. Not one, not two, but seven extensions! And Mr Vorides came and with the regulation of reasonable costs, he finally unlocked the improvement plans. Can we talk about the forest program now? Was EUR 284 million in drawers and should our government come and just in a few, in a few months' time, to activate '8.3' and '8.4', i.e. EUR 128 million immediately? You dared to talk about the financial instruments, when the Minister for Rural Development had the political magnification to invite you to sign this contract with the European Investment Fund, when, on your day, we were really the European Union's pigs in the use of financial instruments, namely, when all European farmers used these tools, Greece, the Greek farmer and farmers could not get a single euro from these specific financial instruments and when the ex ante assessment, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, was signed in September 2018, which was a prerequisite, as you know, to run the specific financial instruments. I'll close, say two words about the Fisheries and Maritime Programme. It is a EUR 521 million programme. We received absorption, ladies and gentlemen, of the order - listen - of 12.75% of which most of the money was for the total counterproductive measure of ship dismantling, and we have given a real race to absorb as much money as possible in order to achieve 'n+3'. Mr President, with your tolerance, I would like to end by mentioning Mr Arahovitis, who said that we have renewed the licences of fishermen of the Vinzotrata gear. Obviously - I do not know if you are ignoring it - you failed to say that we did nothing but actually grant the authorisations of the management plan of derogating fishing with the Vinzotrata gear, which you, Mr Arachovitis, with the Management Plan 929 of 2017, which you submitted to the European Commission, gave permission for three years, namely by the end of March 2020, to fish for these fishermen by way of derogation from the Vinzotratta gear. So basically we have done nothing but to keep the legality in relation to the management of the European Commission, which you have also asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u144	Mrs. Arabaji, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u145	I'm done, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. If you have a short memory, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, we certainly do not have a short memory, and most of all, the Greek people who, as far as the primary sector is concerned, are overwhelmed by your choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, too. The procedure that we shall follow from now on is as follows. All SYRIZA Members, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, will now speak for 10 minutes, the Minister will answer and to the extent that the parliamentary representative wants three minutes of tritology and will be closed by the Minister. Mrs Skoufa, I will give you the floor in the order of questions for one minute more, but I would like to say that the reference of a name is not personal. It is personal to say that if someone is personally concerned or has a distortion of what is said, but, anyway, because this has been done, I imagine in the same style and with Mrs Arabatzi - I mean no personal retaliation - you have to speak. So Mr. Arachovitis has the floor for five minutes. If you want, because everyone else has three minutes' time, you can talk from the seat to save time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, despite all the valuable efforts made by the parliamentary representative, it is rather disappointment that has been passed on to farmers. Others expected to hear today and others heard or rather did not listen, to be fairer. But by listening to you, I was asked a question. How long have you been a Member of the Greek Parliament? You've been here for years. You have passed the memorials and you know what your own governments were, in cooperation with PASOK, KINAL etc., which brought about a loss of 1/4 of GDP, they brought in despite the two memoranda a country was bankrupt, brought to the limits of impoverishment in the Greek society to eat from garbage. All this seems to me to have forgotten and the problem is that the agricultural oil that I was cut off to remind you in the summer of 2015 that he spent in the third memorandum with two hundred and twenty-two votes. And in August 2018 with the government of SYRIZA, the country was outside memorials and it now began to give Greek society what was deprived of an entire decade. That question was created to me. You were here, you said it. So don't try to make a big impression to the Greek people. One key reason why you were disappointed is that you didn't get a hamburger of what you are now ruling. The criticism of SYRIZA about what he did, about what he didn't do is gone. That's what he was judging. Do you now have a responsibility for what you are doing and what you are not doing and when? At a time when the country has stepped on its feet, having a strong reserve, which is out of comitology, except for memoranda, there are no excuses. Let's go see one - one thing. At first, you accused us - and I personally - that, when we talk about gifts, we should be clear. How clear should we be? We have said about both the inter-professional and the way you work, when you are going through amendments, and about the fact that it seems clear who they are who are benefiting from your parliamentary and government work. That's clear. As far as the improvement plans are concerned, you have not understood one thing - rather, you have understood it - and you are turning it into legal. To answer Mrs Arabatzis, all the extensions made were, firstly, at the request of either farmers' organisations or scholars' organisations and, secondly, after June 2018, no new application was made that would change the outcome. That's the first. Secondly, the debate on the delay in the improvement plans says the Minister is about cost reasonable. What does that mean, 'cost reasonable', for people to hear it, which they probably know, but to remind you of it? Characteristic of costs means how to protect public money from being smuggled and with this protection how to get more farmers to become beneficiaries. Because if we accept a priori what the operators of agricultural tractors said, what did it mean? That a great cost would go to the adjusted price of tractors and would be deprived of it by more tractor beneficiaries. That's what it meant. That's exactly what it meant. Well, let's see the essence and let's leave the legalities. That's the point. The third, for cooperatives, is to explain to you why you might not understand that. When we say 'with the provision you bring', what do you do? A good, healthy cooperative obviously has no reason to accept a violation of individuals. So that's where it won't work. A bad cooperative, on the other hand, will not attract private investors, so it will still not work. When will it work? When the private person is interconnected with the management of the cooperative, there is a conflict, there is at the second general assembly, which can go by a majority of others - because what you said applies only to the first, not to the second general assembly - so there we have a sale now clearly and exploit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Third, tax reductions. We said that since August when the country stepped on its feet, the trade charge on cooperative farmers has been abolished, excise duty on wine has been abolished, a number of tax reductions have been abolished and introduced. And that's why we blame you. Running things, proclaimed things, i.e. financially measured, you put them on ice together with the thirteenth pension. That's undeniable. Furthermore, to reduce the EMSDDA - so that we do not forget that - you are bringing about an increase of objective. Take it from the other pocket. Everything you've given is taken from the other pocket. Finally, do not expect anything from the Greek people. I'll just say something about the agricultural photovoltaics, and close up with the oil. For the agricultural photovoltaics, what Mr Famelos said to you and you probably did not understand it is that in the land of high productivity, which you have come to give 1MW, this concerns farmers. It is not a provision for farmers. That's where only investors can go. So farmers are excluded and they will go with the common investors and only enter investors who are not farmers. So what did you do for the farmers? Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u148	Close with a word and let Mr. Apostleu say about the oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u149	I'll close up with a word about olive oil, because we have enough to talk about it. As far as the financial instruments are concerned, are you talking about the ones you sold out, which closed down the basic instrument of financing primary production, the Agricultural Bank? Hey, that's too much! As far as the civil courtesy of the invitation is concerned, that's why we answered you kindly, as you invited us. I think it's not a matter. I'd like to hang up with the olive oil. Let me remind you - and I tabled it in the Minutes because I expected you to say something better about this - that I sincerely had already pre-empted you and told you not to say that the Minister was raising prices. Don't say that. The Minister does not raise prices. But when he has a crisis in price, he can intervene with various tools. We have also faced a crisis in the price of sheep and goat milk. But we supported the livestock sector. We increased the controls, improved the mechanisms, and in any case reacted. In relation to olive oil - in the Minutes, you can find them - since September 2018 a series of notifications of requests has been made to the committee. The culmination was - and is in the Minutes, ask now, please - a meeting with Commissioner Hogan, of course a few days before the European elections, where we called for the support and solidarity of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u150	Mr. Arachovite, you're taking advantage of me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u151	I shall end with that, Mr President. From there you had to get caught and take a step down. Already the ground was prepared. I'm closing with my veins and thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u152	Uh, no. My tolerance is overtaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u153	For the Vinzotrat I told you that you easily found the way to do it. It's not that there wasn't. I didn't blame you for that. But I asked you if the European Commission is aware. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. I have left Mr Arachovitis and said - to avoid misunderstanding - for Mr Apostolos, because they are the two of them from the regions that produce oil. All the rest are from other regions that have other productions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u155	The whole of Greece is making oil, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u156	The whole of Greece takes off, but different quantity is made by Kalamata, differently by Aitoloakarnania, northern Evia, Laconia and different from the Serres who are also Mrs Arabatzi from there and Mr Avramakis. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u157	And quality different, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u158	And quality. We've got the krone, etc.. We're talking now. Let's not talk about this. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and four educational sessions from St. Konstantinos Agrinios High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Red has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. To be honest, I did not expect the Minister to expect substantiated answers because he threw the ball on the platform. I said in the theory, Minister, that here, for anyone listening to you, you say 'yes' to lower taxes. And who won't agree? How nice of Vorides to say it! It says 'We say 'yes' to tax reduction!'. You say 'yes' to political work, to political fraud. I specifically asked you what are rural enterprises, which companies are farmers who will benefit from the tax reduction in the next two years from 2020. I didn't get a reply. I asked you how the professional farmer would benefit from lowering the rate to 9%. I didn't get a reply. Of course, the fact that you like to talk to someone who interrupts you shows a skill, but it's highly intelligent to take the ball where you want. That's a fact. That's why you went through the candy "And why didn't you do it?" I mean, you're just trying to get through this candy, and you're doing well because that's not working. You rule now. But we don't have to work right now. We're asking specific questions. Farmers, you know, as much as we want to raise them or throw the ball elsewhere, have specific answers and specific issues. You have admitted and said here the Step forward that there is no institutional framework and you have asked what the institutional price framework is. Is it possible for the Minister to say that? Is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u160	I didn't say that. Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u161	You should have said: "Work is there. Will you consent to prices?’ And are you addressing the rural world by saying 'I don't know, I can't do anything, there is no institutional framework'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u162	Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u163	Now let's go, Mr. Voridis. Is there a matter of open prices, yes or no? Answer me. And I accept the interruption. Is there? Yes or no? Answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u164	What are you talking about? Can I answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u165	Is there an open price phenomenon, yes or no? Is the phenomenon of open prices, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u166	There's free...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u167	Can I answer for you? Yes, there is. Is there a solution? If you want, answer me. Yes, the mandatory contract on the spot. Below. I also said in the theology, but you ignored it: in a contract the state can make one place stronger. We know that supply and demand shape the price, we know the letters very much. But the state can make one part stronger. How? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Let's go. The producer groups. Do you agree or disagree? Do I have to answer for you? You'll agree. Do you want to make them stronger to have a negotiating power? Obviously you will. Can you give tax incentives for those who trade, the members of the cooperative? Where are the motives? Here's the box, here's the possibility. That's how he'll get a bargaining power. I told you before - but you obviously do not know it - that the lack of storage facilities for a cooperative is a very important thing to negotiate the price. Give the assets of cooperatives that have been bankrupt to exploit from healthy cooperatives. And what are you doing? You're bringing the investors members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u168	Finish, Mr. Red.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u169	Let's just say we're all wrong. Partners who are also attending your party are in agreement with this bill? Do they agree with the order? You'll find it in front of you. Reality will be difficult for you, it will be very difficult and no one will save you, not Maradona, not Pelé, or the supposed ideological controversy. So much will the problems be. Provision: ‘The statute may prohibit members of the agricultural cooperative from carrying out competitive activities for the purposes of the cooperative, with the exception of members of investors’. Minister, are you giving incentives today to join a cooperative?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Red, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u171	You are barely reducing production from eighty to seventy-five, the obligation to produce its production in the cooperative. Please tell me, please, what your incentive policy is, in order to join a cooperative farmer who produces oil and has no honour, a farmer who produces peaches or cotton. That is the question: The incentives you will give the members of the cooperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u172	Thank you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u173	We had started in a difficult time, but we ruled. The question you are asked to answer is what is your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. Mrs. Tyloridou has the floor for three minutes. But please don't try to answer what the Minister said. Select one or two topics for each speaker and answer specifically. You're up to three minutes. That is why we have both the parliamentary representatives and the experts. Here you go, Mrs. Tyloridou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with all due respect, you said in your speech that you would never listen to this Chamber to say that you have no plan. And obviously you'll hear it again until we see him. Let's see him and see his implementation. Here, you know, it's the Greek Parliament. And here you cannot advise us not to criticise you, not to point out the negative elements. There's no TV station where you're going, you're savage, and you're praised. You will be critical here and, of course, we will also accept your answers which, when they are on arguments, will of course say that you were right. You said, therefore, that because you are a man of a strict order, you do not accept the criticism we have made of the whistling of specific issues. It is a good thing, however, that from this Step you have recognized even now that many of these issues are a continuation of our own policies. And because, Minister, I too am strict on ethical issues and you blamed what I told you about the yolk and the rays - you said: 'What did you do? You went to China, you came, you returned, you didn't sign - I would like to tell you to see some documents. However, because they are documents of limited use, I do not submit them to the Minutes of the House. But you can look for them at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, see what the energy was and what it was, 24 May 2019. If you don't find them and you're interested, I can give them to you. There you will see that everything was ready and there was - and you can be informed by our embassy in Beijing - and a scheduled visit by China's Agriculture Minister for 18 June, which was postponed because of the elections. So, because you asked us what we were doing with the prices of products by saying 'Mrs. Taligoridou, you hit them down?', I would like to tell you that the common Ministerial Decision already has results for milk. These results have stabilised the price of milk in the Greek region and in some areas we have a small increase. You should take this into account, but recognise that these are the results of the CFD on controls on milk, which have tightened the control, which has strengthened the control mechanism, which has increased the fines, and we have reached the point that the businesses that have illegal and fraudulent behaviour should be closed down. And for the oil, too. When the problem was solved, we sent the documentation to the European Commission and called exceptionally for us to be able to help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You were at risk before about the balancing and that she's gone forward. When it proved that this was done for technical reasons - because the beneficiaries were increased on the basis of the agreement between the European Commission and the World Trade Organisation and in order to respond to this agreement, we had increased the amount, because of the enlargement of the beneficiaries, from national funding, and the balancing has normally been paid - you have again presented it as yours - and you and your State Secretary. As far as the improvement plans are concerned, Mr Arachovitis answered. There was the question of prices and the unfinishedness between machine dealers, which our government could not do that does not see. There are many other issues, such as duty-free oil. You blamed us when we said we would give it when there was a financial area, saying that you would give it right away. You come to our words and say that you will give it when we have the financial space and all that. In conclusion, I would like to say - because things are being heard about the Ministry of Rural Development and its leadership - that I do not know whether you are happy or not with this ministry. You know that. But what I want to say is this. The Ministry of Rural Development - you are a first-line political - is not the Ministry of Kolonaki but is the Ministry of the countryside and the Greek region. And because you are a man who has a perception and crisis of things, as long as you are in the Ministry of Rural Development, we ask you to help farmers, because we may not be "false", as you accused us before, the interests, but I hope that when you leave you do not step on the Greek farmers, farmers and fishermen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u176	Thank you. Mrs. Jackie has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u177	Minister, you have asked what you could do with the organisations, whether they are called canning processors in general or called ginners, when it comes to maintaining a price framework for these products which are declared national products and for oil. Look, the truth is that the Ministry, in addition to the activation of the Competition Committee, which is in any case an independent authority and has to operate on its own initiative, but also following the fact that the relevant information has been sent to the relevant Minister in all cases, should always - because you said that we should have a dialogue on the current agricultural situation, which is also a very dynamic sector of the national economy - be a leader in initiatives if it wants to maintain a level of prices in the Greek market and in the Greek countryside. Doesn't it bother you that this year's price of cotton went down to 37 minutes? Why did it not happen last year when farmers took the price on cotton 47 minutes per kilo in similar conditions of production, quality, climate conditions? Does it not concern you that this year's producers will take for the compact peaches from processors and canningers 20 minutes a kilo - and if they take them - then why do they come unfavourable commercial practices? In any case, apart from any institutional tools that exist, either through the activation of the Competition Committee or with the Ministerial Decision on unfair commercial practices or with the Community directives at Union level on unfair commercial practices, I think that the solution in this direction is to promote the foundation of contractual agriculture, because that is what Mr Kokkalis has already said to you in relation to cotton with the closed prices that are known in advance and agreed in a framework of dialogue. And that is why it is important that interbranch organisations operate between producers on the one hand, which is the weak link in the supply chain, and any traders on the other. If the Ministry does not first and does not take such initiatives to protect the weaker part, we will have these prices that shrink the agricultural income every year. As you quite rightly said, this is a matter of private initiative and of creating a climate of consensus between them. The Ministry must do this, and most of all the appropriate bodies must be activated in this direction in the right direction. These are the interprofessionals of all kinds and the corresponding body for cotton. Of course, I would like to tell you that the same will have to happen with the interprofessional peach that is now starting to function and, of course, I can tell you that it has been a little lost. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From there on, you have mentioned - and I shall end with this - as far as the insurance system and the tax system for farmers are concerned. As far as insurance is concerned, the truth is that under the Katrugalo Law 5% of farmers, as opposed to 95%, paid increased insurance contributions. But 5%. However, it should not escape our attention that 95% of farmers paid low insurance contributions with the Katrugalou Act. And as far as its taxation is concerned, compared with the previous tax regime that applied to farmers before the SYRIZA government, where they were taxed with 13% of the first euro, farmers, 95% to not tell you 97%, were taken from tax. You know well that according to the data available by ELSTAT, 97% of farmers are covered by the tax-free limit of EUR 9,500 for a Greek family having two children. Now let's come to what we're hearing about the insurance contributions that will come with the new law that you're going to vote for Genaris and replace the Katorugalos law, which was so disastrous, you're supposed to be, as you've focused on the entire Greek population, for these categories of citizens. We hear that in 5% of insurance contributions will be reduced significantly even further than the regime in place before the Katorugalos Act and for the remaining 95% barely - and we will see that - this year you have saved the double of insurance contributions, because another has just raised up in public debate and in public debate....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u178	Ms. Jackie, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u179	...we have escaped the double of insurance contributions to 220 euros. And, of course, we did not explain to Greek citizens that with the EUR 110 insurance contributions that farmers and free traders will now pay - insofar as they are paid for them - they will not receive the pension guaranteed by the Katrugalo Law, Minister. We'll have to tell them, because we're confused with a gold powder that's fallen and a veil here. But I think that sooner or later this veil and reality will be revealed throughout their greatness. They won't get the same pension. A freelance professional, because this also concerns the Greek countryside, to get the pension he would receive with the Katorugalou law, with the law you bring you will have to pay 560 euros insurance contributions a month. In any case, Minister, you are only six months in government. I do not know what weaknesses you find in the Civic Opposition to criticise and make opposition, since you have already fought with us and said not to say one thing and not to say the other. However, in any case what is manifest from your policy over these six months is that you are legislating for the rich and to the detriment of the poor, who are many. If that is what you think it is a legitimate policy at the time we are experiencing, which we are barely fighting to get out of the crisis, in a seated Greece, I think you should review the framework of your policy and the directions of your policy and the objectives of your policy, if, as you said before, we want to leave something behind, with the management that we are doing when we are at ministerial level. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Haritou has the floor. Of course, we do not keep up with the times at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u181	I will respect him, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Haritou will change it because I've known him for too many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u183	Minister, to praise you, I said you were. I think so.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u184	That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u185	Besides, if anyone knows football, it shows it on a 4X4 field, Minister. I did not, however, expect the parliamentary representative to show your leadership. I didn't want to create a problem. I'm telling you, honestly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u186	What problem? What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u187	That's how I understood, ma'am. Mr Minister, I hope that the rural world will monitor this debate we are having. Because the message you have given is that everything is going well, wonderfully, that there is no cause for concern, while at the same time a large part of the agricultural world, the farmers, are experiencing a completely different reality, especially in a year when prices have collapsed, Minister, of all products, obviously because many are linked to the stock exchange. But at least in the face of those who are watching us, we must sincerely say that they live very difficult and tighten the teeth about how to start the new growing season. And, of course, if you find them in front of you tomorrow, don't say it's their fault. The second thing I wanted to note is that, speaking of the Rural Development Programme, you said 'even if we did not agree, we found it and we promoted it' and you described how. What do you agree with? Do you agree with how you operated the previous European funds? Two billion, Minister, was European funds. Instead of steering to deal with the major structural problems of the rural economy, much of them directed to consumption and easy enrichment. Let me remind you that all the research centres have been despised, that public services have been decimated by geotechnics - I must say that, at the moment, the workers of the former VFL are in the area - and that, just before the elections, you gave your friends the biggest fertilizer industry, in 2009. And today an entire society of Kavala and workers are hostages of this reality. And since you have created all these big - and gigantic problems - structural problems, you tell us why in four and a half years it has not been possible to solve everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're probably looking for magicians, Minister, not for policies that can deal with the problems. You did not, of course, answer specific questions raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u188	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u189	I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u190	Go ahead, Mr. Haritou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u191	I say you're done. You've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u192	I'll be done. I didn't know that, apart from being a parliamentary representative, you were President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u193	The president's on top of you and he's your friend, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u194	Let's move on. There are a lot of friendships, time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u195	And we haven't heard, we haven't heard anything about what is going to happen with the compensation that producers are asking for in the Thrace region. We pointed out the problems. We have put the risks in place. It's your responsibility to do what will happen from now on. Finally, I submit to the Minutes of the House the memorandum - a request from the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace on investment projects in view of the reallocation of additional appropriations to Measure 4.1 for investment projects. And don't forget that this region is one of the poorest in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u196	Mrs. Scouffa has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable for people who own ministerial seats, either not to be fully informed or properly informed or, if they are informed, not to transfer the full truth to the Chamber. So the State Secretary, Mrs Arabatzi, said that it was the government of SYRIZA that taxed EU aid and subsidies from the first euro. It's a huge lie and an untrue. I would refer you to an article that came out on rural sites as early as 2017, in which I mention very specifically the following: On the coexistence of the New Democracy and PASOK, Mr.4172/2013 was voted on. I mentioned him in my speech. Under this law, all, but all subsidies, payments and allowances accounted for the income received by the farmer. As a result, they would have been taxed from the first euro with your Government and under the law of your Government! Mrs Arabatzis, you were probably not a member of the Greek Parliament. However, as you understand a ministerial seat, you should refer to two amendments tabled by your party MPs, one on 18 November 2014 and the other on 20 December 2014. The Members who have supported this amendment have even stressed that it is unacceptable for the first time in the 40 years that our country, as a member of the European Union, has until then been a member of the European Union to tax Community aid, subsidies and compensation. What did the SYRIZA government do just a few months after the country's government took over? With an amendment tabled by SYRIZA on 13 May 2015 - please very much see the corresponding POL number 1116/10-6-2015 - we exempted EU aid and subsidies up to the amount of EUR 12,000 from taxable income and the compensation received by farmers as a whole. Since then, since 2015, aid has not been taxed - I say again - by EUR 12 000 and compensation as a whole. But the question is - and that is why we are tabling this topical question today - that you have taken away the tax concessions that SYRIZA has brought - and very well has done - for all the small and medium-sized farmers. However, the question is whether you will go further or whether you will continue to bear on small and medium-sized farmers by serving large agricultural capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u199	Mrs. Arabatzis, wait a minute to announce a school, which is here. It is known to the House that from the top Western theory it is attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", a group of eighteen American students from the McDaniel College of Maryland, USA. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Arabatzis, you know that by my own decision and out-of-procedure I gave you five minutes, but I do not think we should facilitate parliamentary dialogue. You have used this five-minute very well, specifically, but also to a specific Member, who replied to you on politics, and did not say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u200	I ask for the floor on staff, he called me uninformed. He made an evaluatory judgment. Give me the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u201	Mrs. Arabaji, please. I run the conversation. So the answer to Mrs SYRIZA's MEP can, in accordance with the procedure, be given by the Minister. He still hasn't spoken for a minimum of 15 minutes. We're at the end. There is no personal matter, there is nothing to break up with with Mrs Skoufa, nor Mrs Skoufa with you. So we're moving on. Mr. Avramakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u202	Mr. President, excuse me. Can you hear the staff for half a minute and judge?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u203	Here, you have a minute to listen to the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u204	Well, I'll do much less. Firstly, the staff consisted, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that Mrs Skoufa, Mrs Skoufa, said that I was uninformed. This is therefore a personal evaluative comment, in which I must respond not with assessment crises, but with objective events. Firstly, my colleague, I imagine you will agree that the article you referred to us in order to prove that you did not tax, but that we subsidies are not undisclosed truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u205	It's not possible! What level of dialogue is that? I mentioned it exemplarily. And I referred to SYRIZA's proposed amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u207	I said nothing more than what you falsely mentioned from the Step of the House, namely that we have taxed subsidies. And I will answer you with an invitation, which I have addressed many since 2015 to all those in power then colleagues from SYRIZA, please give me a tax statement - one! - to show that agricultural subsidies have been taxed by the Government of New Democracy. A tax statement! She proves everything. Everything else is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u208	Well, Mrs. Arabatzis, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u209	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u210	Please! Sit down. This is not the way to discuss it. Mrs. Scouffa, nothing is written in the Minutes anyway. There's no staff. We're continuing the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u211	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u212	The recent history of the Hellenic Republic and the Greek Parliament is well known, the Minutes are well known, you can all look back. Of course it's done in a selective way every time. Mr. Avramakis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u213	I will start by giving a reply to my friend and colleague, Mr Lebanese, telling him that I do not know who wins.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u214	I'm sorry, Mr. Avramakis, how's this thing coming? Excuse me, but the first thing you say is a MP. Is that possible? Mr Lebanese will raise his hand and say 'personnel'. So what's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u215	I'll do a punk. I won't cause it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u216	But it's not a question of provoking or not provoking. You've been in this House for some time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u217	All right, Mr. Vicha, but I think you're unleashing the wrong man. Others are your fault, and elsewhere you break out. In any case, by addressing the government and its representative, I will say that I do not know who wins the impressions at Parliament's and in communications level, but what is needed for the Greek farmer is what is going on in his pocket and there to know very well that comparisons are catalytic compared to last year. I will return to the part concerning the processing and the Greek sugar industry, and I will say that the Ministry of Development has proceeded with a concession agreement for the factories and infrastructure of the Greek sugar industry in order to reopen it without practically guaranteeing the beet producers. In fact, the disgraceful response of the Minister of Development to my short-sighted producer who is struggling for the absorption of his production, which makes his round of the internet, also shows the real concern you have for the farmers as a whole. I would, however, expect you, Mr Voridis, as the political leader of the Ministry of Rural Development - and you had to do so - to participate more actively in the level of the discussions and negotiations that have taken place and, firstly, to ensure that all production is absorbed, secondly, that they are compensated as they deserve and thirdly, that the related aid is not jeopardised. These questions are on the table. I told you that there was an irreversible commitment from both this government and the Minister that any agreement reached with any investor would also guarantee production for a budget of 2 million. We'll see. You are the only government that can be found with the beetles in the field and that will have the corresponding political cost to you and you need to think about it. As far as cotton is concerned, because we are, I told you, an area which has a large cotton production, you come to explain to the Greek farmer, beyond what you say is all about demand and supply in the price formation, that last year on average, he gave 12 minutes of the euro a higher delivery price for cotton. All of this has consequences for income and everywhere. Moving on to say that all of this results in beet producers either abandoning customs farming at some point and cultivating something else, at all costs it can mean to them or abandoning their fields. The country will obviously lose European resources from this process and Greek sugar will either be produced from imported raw materials or imported. In relation to the Greek Sugar Industry, however, the transfer of workers is still pending, a provision that the SYRIZA Government had put in place in December 2018 and has not yet resolved this problem. From there on, as far as cooperatives are concerned, I have to say that cooperatives and producer groups must be the main tool of small and medium-sized producers to survive and develop. Your policy, however, as reflected in the bill in the consultation, will, it seems, allow their control by an oligarchy of agricultural production or by private supposed investors. As far as photovoltaics and energy are concerned, I have to say that the Ministry of the Environment made a much-advertised change, allowing them to be installed in high productivity photovoltaic land, which, until now, was not exactly allowed because the Greek state over time claims that we cannot turn our fields into power plants to promote the photovoltaics of Germany. However, the intended concentration of agricultural land and agricultural production will result in even the good fields gaining photovoltaics. Is that the future of agricultural production you want? Is that what you're talking about? Is it in the interest of the country to reduce agricultural production and increase food imports? And what about all those who live from the earth and the animals? In conclusion, I would like to say that we need to tighten controls at the borders - Mrs Arabatzi knows - regarding the status of illegal Greek greek herbal and livestock products. That is what we need to give and give a basis more. Finally, I will say that all efforts must be made by you and you will be judged by the result regardless of our intentions. That is what everyone says in this Chamber. Thank you, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr. Avramakis. I don't take it out on you. I respect everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u219	No, I did charming. I have no intention of controversy with Mr Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u220	I would like to say that, for example, I very much respect the fact that Mrs Sukoulis - and other Members of this House of course - has been following the debate that has been taking place since this morning, despite the fact that she will not speak, precisely by showing interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u221	And Mrs. Bisew.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u222	And Mrs. Biziu and other MPs. I don't want to blame anyone. Mr Apostle, Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, has the floor for nine minutes by using his tritology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u223	On condition that the Minister closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u224	Excuse me, but that makes sense. What's he gonna do? He's gonna talk ten minutes, stop and then talk another five?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u225	Whatever you want, I'm flexible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u226	You can't do that! Let's move on. Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u227	I begin with the issue of taxation that we discussed a moment ago. The issue, in particular, of Community aid, until 2013, has not been touched by the Greek state and in all the countries of the European Union, in each of them there is a special treatment. But in 2013, in fact in the spring, the Members - two, three, I do not remember now - of the New Democracy which was governing the country, have been informed that a regulation is being prepared in the Ministry of Finance, which will in fact tax aid, compensation, all of it - there is this POL - and they have tabled a timely question asking that this regulation should not apply. Of course, we were approaching the summer, and because a process was being completed and concerned with the income of last year, we brought it - it was then the Deputy Minister of Finance - a specific arrangement which said that up to EUR 12 000 will not be taxed. That is the reality and let us not get into tensions. The second thing I want to say about what has been discussed is that - Mr Panas is missing - it was said that we agreed in 2015 on the introduction of fifteen thousand tonnes of oil. Of course, the fifteen thousand tonnes did not concern Greece, it was the European Union and it was a decision taken by the European Union - particularly at a time when Tunisia was threatened by jichanist waves and there was a difficult situation - and, as you can see, since there has been no introduction of a single litre of Tunisia oil in this year, we agreed in this decision on the simple reason that, when all of them have said that it is particularly important for a country to come forward and put veto on such a subject, you understand that it is not something that fits our way of operation and, in particular, for issues that are quite sensitive. I am going to focus on a few issues that I have not been able to raise in my first speech and I think they are very important and you must approach them, Minister. The first problem is the control, the Greekizations and it is a very big problem and you, from what you have seen, have done nothing, you have not made much use of the enormous potential that we have given you. Because Hellenism is indeed a problem that comes from far away and has as a reference globalisation, which you mentioned before, and in general the free movement of foodstuffs. However, we have legislated after strong and painful consultation with the European Commission and the European Union and have given you at a very good stage in implementing the compulsory labelling of milk and milk products in the milk and milk products sector and in the country of origin of meat and products in the cash machines of the sales shops, with a view to improving the transparency of the market and avoiding consumer misleading. We have also put a stop to the movement of agricultural products and to unacceptable late payments by legislating the payment of sixty days for vulnerable products. With these arrangements, we knew that we would conflict and conflict with interests which today create obstacles to their implementation. But beyond the conflict, Minister, there is also a need for cooperation and support from the other ministries, especially on the subject of controls. It is an issue that you must certainly go ahead with and in particular convince other ministries that must have a substantial part to play in food control. And I come to another point concerning the agreements concluded by the European Commission with third countries. You have recently referred to the inclusion of feta and other agricultural products in the protected geographical indications, in the bilateral agreement between the European Union and China. Positive. You know, however, that he started this debate in 2015 and ended early 2019, a time with many battles in many fora and, I would say, councils of ministers. Of course, we are still waiting for the text of the relevant agreement and do not forget that there are other issues that are particularly relevant to the trade names and agreements that China concludes with other countries. But we will say more when we get the text. Let me focus in particular on agreements with South Africa and Canada, although they have been closed since 2014, not only because they are still at the forefront of European news, because of their ratification of the national parliaments of the parties that are currently developing, but also because they have a huge interest in our products and even feta. With these agreements signed by the then government of Samara - I am talking about 2014 - when our country particularly exercised the presidency in the European Commission, the use of the term "feta" was given to the inter-month term. We, from the first Council of Agriculture Ministers, which took part in March 2015, made it clear that both Greek society and the Greek Parliament cannot accept the specific decisions - commitments. There have been parallel meetings with Commissioner Hogan, whose position was clear. The results of this agreement are extremely good for our country. This insistence and negotiating determination has led the European Commission to expressly take into account Greece's concerns about geographical indications and to commit itself with a specific annex to the agreements within five years of their entry into force not to use the term "feta" to any product in South Africa and Canada. What is the crucial issue now, and that's why I'm making the report? Because it is necessary, Minister, to be vigilant and to take initiatives to ensure that the transitional time, the rest of the time left to implement the agreement, turn these agreements into full protection agreements for our agricultural products. So you must not lose what we have won and which paves the way for definitive restoration not only for these agreements but also for the future. Go to the point that you do not proceed to their ratification before complying. Here's the target. I come to another third issue concerning red loans and, in particular, red loans to farmers, which come from very far away and need to find a solution. We all know what happened especially after the dissolution in 2012 of the former ATE with its famous scandalous separation in good and bad, where in good good he went what was aware, in bad he went on what was due more than ninety days, and of course good sold in the private sector. Do you know how many of these debts they've been dragging so long that they've captured the rural area? It is about 3.5 billion, which, finally, can today, with the devastations, reach up to 4 billion. It concerns thirty - five thousand natural persons with eighty thousand accounts and six hundred fifty cooperatives. By entering now these debts in the clearing process has been a major problem. Indeed, the previous government of 2014 had a arrangement to deal with these issues. He didn't even have one application. And we, from our side, when we were government, brought the extrajudicial compromise and called on the world to respond. No more than 50 income on the platform. But what happens now when there's a huge problem? Why, what do we have today? We have the Hercules project, which does not include these loans, because they are loans that have a special relationship with liquidation. So what's left? What are we going to do now with the clearing company, PQH, which has essentially succeeded the so-called 'bad bank', which has also been put into liquidation? So, Minister, we must now block the sales procedures in which PQH has entered without looking at anything, namely what they are, where and what they need, how much they need, if all these mortgages are important for the rural area, all these properties, because we need to support the rural area. We, for our part, have set up an Agency, the DIAGE. You know him. Somewhere I saw you say you want to make use of public rural property. There is a specific organisation, which has already taken too many steps, especially in recording. However, I would like to highlight an issue which is very serious. Do you know, Minister, that there are many additional mortgages that the Agricultural Bank has made in retrospectively, why did it have the privilege under the founding law to register mortgages, even without informing the borrower? Here, then, is a very serious problem, because we must, of course, - and we will be helping as far as we can - get rid of this great hard-boiled Greek farmer and above all protect the agricultural property.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 31 October 2019, Friday 1 November 2019, Monday 4 November 2019, Thursday 7 November 2019, Friday 8 November 2019, Monday 11 November 2019, have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u229	The minutes of Thursday 31 October 2019, Friday 1 November 2019, Monday 4 November 2019, Thursday 7 November 2019, Friday 8 November 2019, Monday 11 November 2019 were hereby validated. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank you for the debate. I think that interesting things have been heard and I think I will propose a methodology for counter-population for the future, for the agendas to be a little more specific. You've opened all the issues. And when one opens up all the issues, unfortunately, even in the process of questioning, time is limited to matters so that we can deepen up. In this debate we have to put more emphasis on other issues and other issues are wrong, because we cannot discuss them. But it's your choice. I say it about the methodology of the debate. I wish you would ask more timely questions and have the opportunity to talk more about this sector and to be just a little more targeted. In other words, we should have a debate on the CAP. The CAP alone is a huge capital. To have a debate on the development strategy. In itself, it is a huge fund that includes many things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u231	And production and trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u232	And production and trade, of course. We can have conversations about the food. It's a big deal on its own. When we mix them all, fateful something will be wrong or something we'll say more or something less. Another methodological issue to end with the principles of our debate. First of all, in the position I hear from you, that we are now government and you are not and that, in fact, we must explain our policies and you are not, to agree. Yeah, that's right. It is true, and I think it is also reasonable on your part, when you do not have any great achievements, that someone should want to move the debate to today. That's perfectly understandable. I would agree on a condition that, when we are continuous, for example, actions and the classic example here are the improvement plans, this also opens up a debate on what I did in six months, what you did in four and a half years, because it is continuous action. I cannot therefore avoid it. In other words, I am not doing this for the sake of good, but it is something I cannot avoid. For example, now, Mr Apostolos descending, raised a question of exploiting the property of cooperatives. He said he has created - by the 2016 law, this was formed, if I remember correctly - an organization. You've got a board of directors to work on? You are making sense to me 'the money'. You made him the organization, you tell me what a good-looking organization is, and then you haven't put a board from 2016 to 2019 in the first half of 2019. What are you saying now? It's what we say 'Let it go, boy, I never put it to you'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u233	There are other conditions today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u234	I'm raising another issue. Mr Arachovitis says: 'You know, this is legalism'. Listen, there's something legal you always want. Ask the bone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u235	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u236	Let me tell you why. Because, for example, the complexity and involvement you have created in the issue of reasonable costs was not an issue, as you have presented it, of operators or anything. Participation, the obligation first of all to provide for a provision to address the reasonable cost issue arises directly, is a legal obligation under the Regulation. So you must have a mechanism. Well, first of all, you did salad the mechanism. Then, the removal obviously requires legal treatment. The bodies were right on the legal problem, but you had created it. So, here, what should you do? You should start applauding me now. Now, straight ahead of applause. That's what has to be done now. Because from a problem situation I have given a solution. So, here, he wants bravery sometimes, and not to open matters to which you know that you are objectively exposed. I'm not saying a bad thing. I never say it. But I'm saying there was a failure. I'm coming to something else. You spoke about the price issue. You come back, I'm afraid - and it's too bad - if you ever left to your evil populist self. What do populists do? People are not that they will not pose any problems. Everywhere the populists, around the world, raise real issues. You raise the issue of prices. The question of prices is a real one. I am not the one who will say that our producers are wrong to complain about this. They are right in the sense that they are in the face of a real productive problem. When populists come in and say "we, here is a price problem" they say something that obviously exists as a matter within society. But what do populists do? Then they give the wrong answer. In fact, they say and pretend they have an answer they don't actually have. There are two nice texts in the Ministry. One is a text drawn up in 2016. It is a text that has been made in consultation with the troika. I say it is a good text, because it raises interesting issues and speaks of the competitiveness of agriculture, of competitive agriculture. A first question is whether you have renounced this text. You renounce it now? Oh, no. Okay. The second text, which exists, is also an interesting 2018 text, which is a draft rural development strategy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Do you renounce this text?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u237	We gave that away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u238	I'm asking you if you renounce it. Because I have not intervened in these texts. I'm studying them, I'm thinking about them, I might be interfering, but at the moment I think they are. In fact, if you look at what I do - now I tell you my secrets - I apply and personalise, I specialise policies in these texts. Page 39 of this text on rural development refers to the problem of prices. Do you know what solutions it proposes, Mr. Red? What did he say? Are we going to do 'bras de fee' here, with the processors, with the dealers? Is that what he says? Can I tell you what he's saying? How do we resolve the issue of prices? Increase added value. So what does he say here to decode it for our producers and for the people who listen to us? 'Branding', 'PDO', 'PGI', 'the realization of the commercial dimension of the primary sector'. Is that correct? This says withholding value added in the rural area, increasing value added mainly by removing the consumption of fixed capital, which means dealing with the multiple sources of pressure on agricultural income, farmers' incomes, mitigating the degree of dependence of agricultural income on subsidies. These suggest the text that you have adopted and which is the text of the Ministry, a review of the tax system, a treatment of regional and sectoral disparities. I like this text. Look out! And it is the text that I am implementing. I don't like everything, I'm going to make revisions, but it's a text I'm implementing. Can you tell me in this text exactly what you're saying? Which colleague told me about Daddy, left? It was Serres' colleague who said: 'What are you going to say to the producers, to the cotton producers?' I will say that we have created this nice text, which, apart from the text, also says policies that we need to implement. In these policies nowhere it says that the Minister determines or intervenes in price formation. So you have now begun to return to your old well-being populist self, who is putting real problems, but then has pseudo-solutions. So the answer here is that, indeed, for a complex and complex situation that is formed within an open market regime, we obviously need complex and complex tools so that we can cope with them. And what are these tools? What, then, is our strategy to strengthen producers' incomes in the end? These are products of added value, they are intervention as far as possible and to the extent that we can with whatever tools we have to reduce production costs. Part of the strategy to reduce production costs is to reduce tax rates. Part of the strategy to reduce production costs is intervention in the cost of electricity, and this possibility we have legislated for PVs, which are used for agricultural production. Part of our strategy, indeed, must be to change the irrigation model. This is something that I would like to agree with in a broad debate, because these projects, irrigation projects, are not projects, which are carried out within a year, are policies which must last years and not change if - at any time - the government changes. There must be a broad cross-party agreement in order to implement and implement these projects so that we can move from a model of using groundwater - essentially water from the watercourse - to the exploitation of surface water - but also has a significant environmental impact - on cultivation policies, which must also be financed from this programme and from the next programme, which must be designed to reduce the use of plant protection products, reduce the use of fertilisers and the targeted use of fertilisers, the targeted use of water and the rational use of water, and the use of modern technologies. That is why our producers must be financed. So the strategy is that. However, anyone who thinks that tomorrow morning has an easy answer to go to the producer, who really has a lot of compression, who accepts from opening the markets, whoever has an easy solution, go to say to him: You know, yes, I have a magical way. What'd you get now? I have a trick to give you plus 20%." If you have the trick, tell me, let's go do it. You don't say that. You don't say that in your strategy. And I'm coming to the CAP. I would like to have a wider debate on the CAP, because it is a big and interesting issue. It is with great pleasure, whenever you ask me either to ask questions or to the committee, to inform you of what is happening. There is nothing that has changed, Mr Apostle. I just want to clarify the following. At the budgetary level, the picture described in the Council of Ministers is still there, in fact, the Agriculture Council, which says - almost unanimously - is that two objectives cannot be met at the same time: high environmental ambitions and green deal for the European Union - it is the one that is building the European People's Party and, therefore, the European Right, to end who is today defending the environment and climate change, so we are doing so - and in this context, what the Ministers for Rural Development are saying is that two simultaneous objectives cannot be served. What are the objectives? The Union's high environmental ambitions, on the other hand, are linked to a reduction in the budget. But I have to tell you the difficulties. This will not be solved in the Council of Ministers, as you know. The budgetary issue will be resolved at the Council of Heads of State or Government level. So it's a different decision. And why am I saying that? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr. President, what is my tolerance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u239	You have as much as you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u240	Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u241	I say as much as you need. Five to six more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u242	And whenever I get tired, colleagues tell me to leave. So I'm saying this. The great difficulty, which currently exists at European level for the debate that is taking place, is as follows. What about the CAP? At least and I say to you, there must be some voices which speak of an increase in the CAP budget, in minority terms, so that we do not get confused. But it starts to sound while it didn't sound until before. So this is a positive development. It's not negative. Our position has not changed. Fixed budget for the CAP. The position that existed in the previous government is still Greece's position today. Second matter. What is the money for cohesion policy? To increase or decrease? There are some who say to stay firm and the cohesion money. Money for new policies, which are of interest to us? Because within so-called new policies it is immigration policy, for example. Money for new policies, yes to get in. Brexit? Money is being taken off. Great Britain was a contributor country. This is stable, perhaps the other one may increase, and new funds are being put in, and funds are being deducted. How will the budget gap be covered? Increase the contribution of the Member States.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u243	Not just...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u244	But there, Mr Arachovitis, obviously the countries which contribute, you realise that they have a very important concern and objection. So the shape of the budget is that. As far as external convergence is concerned, there are still no great differences, because our position remains the same. The association of powers, which supports our position, also remains the same. Actually, that's the configured connection. But to be honest with the fact that this connection does not have the so-called blocking rights, that is, it cannot stop a contrary decision. At the moment, the direction in which we are going is that of the Finnish Presidency - it is this. No external convergence has been removed and the Committee's interim position has been maintained, but it remains to be clarified in the committee's interim position and the position of 'direct external convergence' has also been removed. So these are the configured positions with the configuration, if you want, of the alliances to remain stable. Now, the question of taking into account criteria that you have set, namely that there is not only a criterion for area aid, but that other criteria should be added, obviously we are defending it, obviously we are tabling documents, obviously we are discussing it. All this is still happening. When will it be over and when will they evolve, as will the other issues connected - I do not want to tire you - with heresy, with small farmers? That is why I am telling you that the CAP alone requires a great debate. However, I do not want you to worry about the diligence we show. We're watching it closely. You should know that I make bilateral meetings, mainly, even with people, with countries that are absolutely hostile to our position. Poland plays a leading role in this, which has a completely different place from ours. It is in favour of the implementation of immediate convergence now all. I meet with them - especially them - because I am trying to explain exactly what I believe. Because we see them write that Greek producers get too much money and poor producers get little money! This is inaccurate when you then come to streamline it and put it per farm. If we leave the acres and go to the farm, then the picture is quite different, and I think that has a certain content. You raised a number of specific issues to me. CONGA: Do me a favor. I heard that, I don't remember who of you developed this issue. So, now you're telling me what? The situation in the ELGA that you hand over to us, you know it. You give us an ELGA with a budget of 170 million, with 12 million from the legal budget of revenues from farmers' contributions, with 12 million from the law creating a reserve, thus remaining 158 million per year, in which expenditure is included. Payroll costs have to be covered, which you know in recent years have been paying for over 200 million in compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u245	Law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u246	You did very well. Know what that means? That means you ate the reserve. How much will you eat from the reserve? So the intervention I am talking about and which you have avoided in four and a half years is the following. And how did you avoid her? With the continuous and permanent invoicing of the imminent proportionate study, which was to give the element to be taken. You come to me today and you talk to me about an administrative board decision taken in 2018 in order to carry out a proportionate study to address the issue and where, as of October 2018, this decision was taken, until July 2019, that you delivered, had not fallen even half a signature for anything. And now you're telling me about this? That is why I am telling you that there are some who are involved and I can't but count them on you. You forsake me, why? Because I'm trying to give a solution and I'm asking a straight question: Do you think our producers are happy with the operation of the ELGA?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u247	But that's why we started the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u248	Here I will tell you that we have an amazing call centre at the Ministry of Rural Development and we can see how many phone calls we accept on what issue. Well, 60% of the phones they hit at the Ministry of Rural Development are on the issue of ELGA, compensation delays, not paid, not fully paid, one thing else. That's the situation you handed us over. So I come and say that I want to deal with this, I want to solve it. I do not want to solve it on an equal footing, because the levelling-up is easy. Isn't it? Could I not say how much the ELGA deficit is every year? It's 50 million. Is that correct? Yes, sir. How much is in the total of 170 million 50 million? It's 25%. Yes, sir. Increasing the contribution by 25%, I found the money. That was easy to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u249	Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u250	Apparently, because I don't want to do it. Because I do not want to make the farmers' insurance contributions increased. I would, however, like to give them a solution that they will soon receive and have better and more effective risk cover and I will not charge them with insurance contributions. I therefore want to explore the possibility of using private insurance and private insurance and see what synergies I can make to deal with this issue. You, a Priori, say that's not possible. It can't be done, yes. But I did not see you giving any other solution. I didn't see you giving a solution. I saw you kick the can and keep that bad situation. So let us see and explore what possibilities the private insurance market gives us and see what partnerships we can make for the benefit of producers. I have committed that by June 2020 I will present you with such a plan to discuss. We have set up this committee to enter into a debate with the private insurance market and we will see what other possibilities we have. Mr Apostolos raised an important point and let me close with that. It has a nice article on 'POLITICO', which refers mainly to my statements and an intervention to the Council of Ministers. Its title is: "The rise of gastro-nationalism", i.e. "The rise of gastrigarian nationalism" and, in fact, refers to an effort jointly undertaken by France, Spain, Italy and Greece, in order to make it compulsory for foods originating in the product from which the food was made. So yogurt? Yeah. With what milk? Greek milk, but this should become compulsory. As you can see, this has internal reactions within the Union, because those countries which have such production do not want this to be recorded. However, it is something that we insist on and which we claim. I beg your pardon, but I too think it is very important and I will tell you the main reason. The reason is that today there is a food consumer who requires maximum traceability of the product. He wants to know where he comes from, what he eats. This does not violate either the internal market or internal competition. It is additional information for the consumer. I want to know if I have you around me in this. It is important that opposition is also close to this position, which I say clearly and clearly. It is compulsory to indicate the product - the food and the processed product - where it came from. I'm closing with the Greeks, Mr. President. I've talked about the Greekizations on several occasions. I want to know where the deal is and where the disagreement is. I have a point of view. The view is that the Community framework is mild. I am talking about the Community framework for PDOs. I saw it. Excuse me, but the fines are not serious. I am talking about the Community framework, which has not exploited a threefold infringement, which is carried out and which is not persecuted in the threefold way, which, in my view, is correct. So when someone is acting like they're selling a product, which comes from Greece, and it doesn't come from Greece, it does three things. If the product is PDO, the PDO is broken. That's a crime. A second thing that does is that it makes unfair competition, because when you say you sell feta, but in fact you do not sell feta or sell a cheese which you badly call 'feta' while you have done it with cheaper products, you actually do unfair competition - to the one who sells normal feta - and to the consumer misled. You may also make the offence under Article 314 of the Market Code, i.e. fraud. You might make four offenses. This has some other conditions. I would therefore like to create the institutional framework - which you will see - which is the first quarter of 2006, so that, at administrative level and criminal level, penalties are more effective and more stringent. That's what's gonna happen. The second, which is, of course, a great debate, which has not been touched on by a great deal of work, very demanding, is that we should look at the effectiveness of controls. It opens up a debate on the effectiveness of the audits and the coordination of the Ministry's mechanisms, but it also opens up a second debate - Mr Apostleu has a number of views on this, I want to discuss them publicly, it is not the good place - on the question of scientific methods for finding a breach. So this is a debate, which should also be done. I understand your reservation, but we will discuss it. This is also something, which will be completed, in the first quarter of the year, while the scientific capacity from the one, but also the question of coordination, will be finished by the third quarter of 2020. I told you about the CAP. I told you about the Greeks. We talked about Brexit. I will end with a few more things that we are doing and which, in my opinion, are important. Managing grazing plans, grazing land, adopted in 2015. You granted an extension in 2017, you extended in 2019 and you did absolutely nothing. Zero. On a crucial issue, for too many reasons, including the CAP, it is not just a CFP, but it is also a CFP. Institutional framework for pharmaceutical and industrial matters. We're ready. I think that by the first half of 2020 we will end the cloning option. Exploiting the real estate of the DEPAAT. This is quite a more complex issue, we will make a great deal of action in 2012, because it also wants to change in many respects. Last comment, for what you say about the property of cooperatives, indirectly continuing, not directly continuing with this debate. The position you adopted with 2016, I would like to inform you that it is not a constitutional step. Why? Because even bankrupt is a cooperative. Poverty now is a concept, usually what we have is a solution, rather clearing, which often never comes to a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u251	Finish, Minister, because you've reached half an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u252	I'll be done in a minute. Not reaching a solution, we have not eliminated the identity of the legal person. The legal person is kept and remains in liquidation, so he still has his property. How are you gonna get it from him? Infringement directly of the property, Article 17. So he wants another technique. What am I thinking now? He wants another technique to be able to do that. Although we agree in the strategic direction, that is yes, it will eventually have to come to use other active cooperatives, the technical legal way - which you do not like, Mr Arachovitis - which is to be done, so that it can be done, because otherwise it will fall. About the irrigation works, we talked about it. The National Plant Protection Plan has raised it today, a huge issue and an obligation of the country. Of course, we will also have a programme - someone said it - about the need to restructure crops. Now, I'm not telling you what to say and what not to say. If you want to say that we don't have a plan after this, you can say it, I just think it won't be very convincing. I would say that it is best to criticise this plan. I hope, however, that this criticism will be able to show ideological and political differences, with great pleasure of discussing this, but it is important at the end of the day to see that all this policy, which we are creating at the Ministry of Rural Development, is a simple one: to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture, to increase the income of farmers, to keep and to attract more and young people to production, to primary production. Thank you very much for the debate and for the tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Apostle, wait a minute. You've asked for the floor. I can give it to you for three minutes, but you need to know that I have to give another five minutes to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u254	Yes, sir. I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u255	It's about being like this. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u256	Just because the Minister read extracts from the strategic plan, which we had tabled for agriculture, Minister, we went through Hilton's basement too. You know, this project came after a constant debate with the institutions. On the other hand, we also had the common agricultural policy. Don't forget we had the memos in our head.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u257	But now you didn't like it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u258	Nevertheless, to mention in this particular plan that the competitiveness of Greek agriculture is needed, we do not disagree and of course we support it. We're not doing back to anything. So we must bear in mind, and in what circumstances, in particular, we have often had to make specific decisions. You said, on the other hand, an issue related to yogurt. You know, Minister, the problem with Greek yoghurt is that they are trying to specialize a product using its way of manufacture. They say that it is Greek yoghurt and we mean how it is manufactured, while the consumer is practically what he perceives is a product that comes from Greece. But there we were able to do it both with the courts and with the Czech Republic and with England and I read about Japan very well. But you did not say that for some time now the Ministry of Rural Development has started the process of geographical indication when it comes to yoghurt, which means that since we're going on this path, the raw material will be Greek milk. It's clearly these things. You can't claim a geographical indication, which means total protection, without having these parameters. The third point I want to stand on is the great grazing patterns. Minister, you cannot imagine what battles we have fought since we went to the Ministry, with a fine of 300-350 million each year, due to the management plans and, in particular, the eligibility for livestock farming. There was a great effort. We arrived at the first meeting in front of us an envelope which tells us "1.5 billion from here recoveries, 1.5 billion from there fines" and, at the same time, there is a proposal that your previous government had approved, says, 4.5 million to be given to farmers to build management plans. You realize that, when I saw this thing, I said 'Come here, you guys, what's going on?' Do you know how much we gave these management plans? From 4.5 million, which you approved, 450 thousand. So, you realize it's a space that needs a great deal of effort. We in the Rural Development Programme have amended to the specific measure, so that this money can be used effectively beyond afforestation, which was the permanent measure. In all the programs the permanent measure was afforestation, you know this questionable, I would say, efficiency. But there was a sub-measure fragmentation. It is not only that we need management plans for grazing, but it is also the huge problem of protection, the uptake of the country's forest ecosystem. But all of this must be discussed and you must definitely have it as a peak point. Because the relationship currently exists between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Investment and Development is that the Ministry of Rural Development is the'strained' - this is the case - on too many responsibilities, which this ministry must above all exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much. Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u260	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u261	The debate is adjourned at number 5/4/10-12-2019 on the subject of "The lack of government policy causes rural world and increases its discontent". Thank you very much to the Minister, who was evident that he had a small health problem and I think he was helped by the process of getting well! Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-10-S1-commons.u262	With the consent of the House at 15.40 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 13 January 2020 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
