ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy 'Promotion of electromobility'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting in principle, on articles and on amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured today to speak as the first speaker in the Greek Parliament, on a day of historic decisions for Europe and Greece. After many days of negotiations, Kyriakos Mitsotakis is now returning to the country with a package of 72 billion euros in luggage. Congratulations to our Prime Minister, congratulations to Europe, which at last shows that she is again united decisive. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's world transport is the main source of air pollution. We saw in the past few months because of the pandemic, when the movements were limited, how the atmosphere was cleaned and how air quality improved, especially in big cities. I believe that, following this experience, we are all aware of the importance of reducing the polluting 'print' of transport. Our aim is to protect the environment and improve the quality of life of citizens. The bill we are discussing today is an initiative with a view to the future. The national transition plan for electricity is a central pillar of our policy on the gradual abandonment of polluting fuels and the transition to clean energy. This cannot be done either by fragmentation or by magic. It requires a coherent plan involving the State, the support of local government, the market and society itself. There is a need for an overall organisation of electricity mobility, essentially an incentive for the import of electric vehicles on the Greek roads. That is exactly what we are doing with this bill, a bill that brings our country closer to the European states, which have successfully achieved what we have set our target to a great extent. Ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector in Greece accounts for about 40% of the final energy consumption, while about 96% of it is covered by oil products. The energy efficiency of internal combustion engines is estimated at 20%, which is reduced by taking into account the energy required for the mining, production and transport of fuels. With more than five million registered cars, our country has the oldest fleet of vehicles IX in the European Union. Most of these have already exceeded the sixteen years of circulation and over 70% of them are circulating for more than ten years in Greece, a time point of replacement in most European countries. At the same time in Greece electric vehicles and single hybrids do not exceed 0.33% of the total vehicle market. As far as charging stations are concerned, almost all are privately-owned and limited to seventy to eighty throughout the country. These elements constitute a set that overly burdens the environment, especially in large cities. Not only at the level of air pollution, but also in the area of road safety, is the traffic of older vehicles, since they provide reduced protection for passengers, but also for pedestrians, in relation to new technologies. The higher prices of electric vehicles compared to conventional vehicles remain the most important obstacle to the further development of the Greek electricity market. Consumer confidence and purchasing power of Greek households have not yet recovered from the economic crisis of the previous decade to an extent that would allow the purchase of more expensive electric models. Over the past two years, the average economic potential of Greek households for the purchase of passenger cars has been between EUR 15,000 and EUR 25,000, while the majority of electric car models currently cost more than EUR 25,000. At the same time, direct subsidies to buy a new technology vehicle do not exist in Greece, at least as they have been adopted by most European Union countries in recent years. In addition, the development of charging stations is mainly hampered by the absence of an integrated legislative framework, especially as regards the organisation of the national electricity market. There is also a lack of planning from the previous government. The fragmented legislation, combined with the lack of incentives, is responsible for the lack of penetration of electric vehicles into the Greek market. Today we are dealing with this situation with an integrated coherent management framework, with clear orientation, with specific objectives and measurable results. The proposals of the New Democracy for electromobility have been known since 2018 and were presented back then. At that time we committed that within 2020 the country will have a national plan for electricity. Like all our election commitments, and we come to do so. The draft law on the promotion of electromobility takes into account all developments at international level, with emphasis on tax incentives in the countries of the European Union, where electricity is constantly gaining ground. In addition, we have taken into account the proposals put forward in the public consultation and many of them were adopted before the draft law even came to the Commission. The opinions of the bodies, which have been expressed very positively, both in principle and in the substance of the proposed arrangements, have also been recorded. I consider this particularly important, not only because it confirms the value of the effort made by the government and the Minister himself, but also because it shows that society and the market are ready to embrace electricity. All together, state and society, we are working together on the transition to the new era. The Promoting Electricity Act consists of five parts, divided into individual chapters and a total of forty-seven articles, with incentives for the development of electricity, through market organisation, by arrangements for the development and installation of charging infrastructures, with the incorporation of European legislation to promote clean and energy efficient vehicles, by regulating all organisational and technical issues needed to implement in practice. In particular, in the draft legislation we are debating today, we define relations between market operators, operating issues and obligations towards users of electricity. We're setting up a register of electricity market infrastructures. We are introducing economic, development, tax incentives relating to the market, the rental and the use of electric vehicles and their chargers, as well as the production of electric vehicles and related items. We introduce arrangements for spatial planning and town planning with more specific forecasts for the placement of parking spaces and chargers in public and private areas and buildings. We are dealing with technical issues, such as simplifying the licensing procedures for electricity charging facilities with the electricity distribution network, the operation of workshops that undertake repairs and maintenance of electric vehicles, the training of technicians and the extension of their license. We motivate the regions of Western Macedonia and Arcadia to install and operate power plants for the production of electric vehicles and articles related to them. This is how we create a new economy that will promote modern technology, innovation, research and industrial production. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law on electricity, we look forward to our country gradually stopping the use of fossil fuels and decommissioning the international oil markets. It is time for Greece to move to low-emission mobility and to increase the classification of new vehicles. This will also contribute to the mandatory quota for vehicles which will also be supplied by the public. It is time to develop a network of publicly accessible rechargeable points, as well as private smart recharge points, to encourage the private initiative to develop investments in electricity infrastructures, regulate the market rules by adopting terms of transparency and a competitive development model, introduce urban provisions to speed up the authorisation of reloading infrastructure and integrate relevant European regulations and directives. The objective of the interconnection of electric vehicles is to reach 30% in 2030, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to 30% and the share of renewable energy in the transport sector to 19%. Clearly, the passage from gasoline and oil to electricity cannot take place from one moment to the next. That's why the government legislates and plans for a decade. This passage, however, reserves benefits for the whole territory, which will gradually begin to appear on the first day of application of the new framework. For the citizen through the direct and indirect incentives established, the acquisition and use of electric vehicles is made more accessible. This applies to all electric vehicles. Apart from cars there are both bicycles and bicycles. During the discussions in the committee, we were accused by the Qualified Opposition that the bill is supposed to be of some sort of class, that the incentives are directed at the privileged. Ladies and gentlemen, the exact opposite is true. With incentives, we aim to make electric cars, scooters and bicycles accessible to everyone with a premium from the first euro. Our aim is for all citizens to be able to buy all kinds of electric vehicles while they are currently using conventionals. In this way, we will achieve the objectives I have outlined for the penetration of electric vehicles and the reduction of pollutants. Encouraging private initiative for the creation of productive units and charging infrastructure networks creates new jobs and contributes to economic growth. Tax incentives, reduced use costs and total parking, reduce the cost of an electric vehicle by at least 30%. For starters, we cover the distance that separates a conventional car from the electric car. At the same time, we define the rules for developing an integrated charging infrastructure network and for achieving maximum geographical and population coverage so that electric vehicles can go everywhere, serve the mobility needs throughout the country, do not fall short of old conventional cars. It is therefore clear that electricity is all about Greeks and not the few, but the many. The protection of public health and the prevention of atmospheric pollution affects all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, as our Prime Minister pointed out, Greece is preparing to enter the forefront of the future. By studying this draft article to an article, I believe that there is no reason for anyone to disagree. Despite any different approaches, which will always exist, this is a bill - a section worthy of support from all political forces, as it helps to build a better future. I understand the political deadlock in which the Civic Opposition has come, because today we are doing green development. Ladies and gentlemen of the minority, there is no point in the opposition to the opposition, let alone in a green bill that promotes in all respects an ecological way of moving. I would therefore urge you all to vote in favour, above all, of the generations that are coming. We can all give our children the opportunity to live in a healthier, cleaner and more human environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, until the Stepma has been prepared to call SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Kafantaris, I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and with Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, on 20-7-2020, firstly, criminal case law relating to the Minister of Migration and Asylum Panagiotis Mitsarakis and the Minister of Civil Protection Michael Chrysochoidis, and secondly, criminal case law relating to the former Minister of National Defence Panagiotis Kammenos. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone! It is good that the Prime Minister will come from Brussels and the summit! We expect to see what results were, what funds were secured for home and for the main, how many of them will be loans, how much of them will be a direct grant and whether there will be conditions. However, Minister, it is certain that half the grant to the Fair Transfer Fund has been reduced, and this is a very serious issue. I now come to the draft law we are discussing. A government that thinks it is green, a Prime Minister who is advertised as a green Prime Minister, a Minister who destroys the environment in the name of green development today introduce a bill in plenary that we consider to be communal, fragmentary and, of course, incomplete. Perhaps it is trying to maintain the profile of the Green Prime Minister, the Green Government, a profile that has been affected, has been damaged by the anti-environmental measures, the policies that have been passed and are starting to be implemented by the government. I am referring to the well-known anti-environmental law, which concerns the abolition of NATURA 2000 bodies, nature management policies, the abolition of forest maps, a reference to the Greek bells, changes to waste planning - very important - and all these make up a straight shot at the environment in our country. Of course we say 'yes' to the electromobility introduced by this bill, in the sense of electromobility, but there is a need for a comprehensive planning and strategy that creates resources for home, changes in transport and transport, public procurement, and the network and charging prices. We need a holistic approach to these problems and the challenges. There needs to be specific design. The latest report by the European Union on the progress towards sustainable development objectives of the Member States of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, shows results for 2018, compared with previous years. In the 7 ‘Clean Energy’ and 13 ‘Climate Action’, the figures show a serious and obvious way of trying and success of the SYRIZA government in almost all sectors and compared to the years 2013-2014. I say this because the previous majority rapporteur mentioned what SYRIZA did about the environment. There are indicators, therefore, showing the decline in the percentage of households that cannot keep their house warm - so the report refers to - the increase in productivity in the energy sector, the achievement of the EIA share target in final energy consumption, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. We do not, therefore, need to prove whether we have exercised - and indeed, in very tight conditions, a memorial that you inherited us, a New Democracy and a Change Movement - an environmental policy. The figures themselves in the report of the European Union state this. Today, the Mitsotakis and the RIS have to show, as I said before, an anti-environmental bill that was passed, unlike society, with institutions. We know this, there has also been broad consultation in plenary. So the government celebrates for the electric cars we buy, for the defoliation programme that the government will bring a year and a half after its decision. And in a steadfast way - I cannot say that, Minister, I will bring back what you have said to the committee - you are ironic about the classicity of this draft law. You said, Mr Hatzidakis, 'yes, it's a class bill because it concerns taxis'. Allow me, unlucky - by the way - to place a minister. The strategic long-term vision of the European Union for prosperous, modern, competitive and neutral economy in 2050 has already been set out from 2019. The proposal submitted by the European Commission shows the direction of transition to a neutral and resilient economy by the mid-century in 2050. Significant movement within the pandemic and current conditions of the collapse of oil prices and the non-reduction of the limits on emissions from motor vehicles by the European Commission, positive support for clean vehicles to protect the environment. The easiest and most efficient measure to achieve emission reductions is the production and placing on the market of electric cars. That's how all companies drive electricity at a growing rate. Measures by the European Commission: Encouraging participation by citizens, local authorities and industry in the promotion of cooperation, the creation of full industrial value chains, strengthening innovation, investing in the urban environment, ensuring the necessary funding. The financial sector in the European Union has the potential to meet the annual investment needs of almost EUR 180 billion in order to achieve the European Union's climate and energy targets in 2050. Greece has adopted the European EIA development objectives, but electricity is still at zero, contrary to other European countries where important steps have already been taken. Reasons for preventing the broad dissemination of cars are their high cost of purchasing them, the lack of a system, a network - to say it more correctly - public and private charging infrastructures. I mention attributes that Berlin, with three million inhabitants, has two hundred and six thousand places - the charging points. Electricity, therefore, has always been within our strategy, in the strategy of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, as innovative and ecological policy. There have already been procedures under the notice of purchase of electric buses - which you, the New Democracy Government, have annulled and I am referring to the OSH - discussions with operators and RAE on the planning of a smooth transition to create infrastructure for charging stations, for specifications, criteria and incentives. The NSRF also provided the available financial instruments. In SYRIZA the energy communities, which one of their aims was also the supply to members of electric vehicles, as well as participation in charging networks. Indeed, a decisive reason in our plan was the role of the TEDO as design and coordination, leaving space on the market, but also on the market with rules and supervision, which is contrary to the draft law that you tabled, 'all in the market'. Under this draft law, RIS grants are granted. You say that you have guaranteed EUR 100 million for ten thousand vehicles and incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles. The amount, however, is not sufficient if these funds are available. The figure is lower than what would have been necessary to affect the overall image of the fleet in Greece, which is basically the fourth oldest fleet in Europe. According to the EESC, the National Plan for Energy and Climate, the number of purely electrical and plug - in hybrid vehicles in the year 2030 is expected to correspond to 5% of the passenger fleet, and today around five hundred and fifty thousand passenger vehicles, according to ELSTAT data. I'm moving on to the bill now. What's the national plan for electricity? Where is the relevant NSA, as you were committed to, on the basis of which you would write and deposit the bill? We have clearly talked about classics in the bill with Article 5 and the environmental charge imposed on imported used goods. What are you doing here? You are introducing unfair competition, you are violently modifying the market against used medium and low-street, you are violating European legislation - Article 110, Treaty on the Functioning of the EU - and all this with an environmental cover. You lead to an increase in the price of used IX, while on the inside there will also be an old polluting vehicle. Many who cannot buy electric cars, supplementing RIS subsidies, will pay for the few who have money to buy them. You're talking about dealing with air pollution, Minister. The imposition of the environmental charge on imported products can make the withdrawal less attractive and thus cause an old-tech vehicle with increased pollutants. What does that mean for air pollution? What cars, Minister, will the majority be released in 2030? Finally, how many MCAs do - I think - need sixteen, if I am not mistaken - for the implementation of what we are going to legislate today? Of course, we cannot say, there is also some positive one, such as the targeting of tax incentives and a financial instrument in corporate fleets, taxis and islands, incentives which will be established for the installation of productive units related to electricity, batteries, chargers, etc., so that the country can obtain a production base in this sector in the lignite regions, since we are going to the post-lining era. Insert the framework for placing publicly accessible charging points, incorporation of instructions to place charging points in new and public buildings, simplification of procedures for existing buildings, the framework for workshops, electrical vehicle craftsmen, battery management, CTEO controls, etc. Negatives, however, are many, such as the extraordinary environmental charge for grading used cars. We note that the bill of the Ministry of Finance, which is being discussed now, changes the registration fees. You've got to get to know each other somehow. They will ultimately pay those who have no money to buy a electric vehicle or vehicle better and less polluting technology than those they actually have. Yes, well, in integration into electricity, as I said initially, but with integrated planning, a fair strategy that creates resources, jobs in Greece, changes in the transport and transport sector, because it is not just passenger cars and road transport, it is also maritime and air transport, public procurement, network and charging prices. However, the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is the change in the energy mix. Today, with the available data, energy production depends around 72% to 73% on fossil fuels, Minister, mainly from natural gas, from coal and I do not know what else is included in the energy mix in imports. It can indirectly be natural and nuclear energy. However, the elements of the IPTO show 15-06-2020. We therefore need a substantial shift in renewable energy sources and alternative fuels. In order to make it understandable, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak of fossils, we are talking about gas, which may have a better ecological footprint, but it is still a fossil fuel. Well, it takes a turn in the RES, in the alternative fuel, so the emission reduction is real. This will encourage the conversion of vehicles into another less polluting fuel so that non-residents can buy a motor vehicle. In short, proposals are put forward to make electricity more smooth, more attractive to achieve, to grant a subsidy on the basis of income and a greater withdrawal bonus depending on technology, to combine the financial instrument with loan programmes so that the financially weak can benefit, to create additional incentives for parking and tax incentives for our fellow citizens of AMEAN - they have also sent us a memorandum - to take account of the positions of cyclists 'Cities for cycling', where they raise issues. I would like to say here that you must take serious note of the issue of taxi, which concerns an oldest fleet of cars and more brave incentives, which are some within the bill, so that they can replace their vehicles that are obliged to replace in the spring of 2021. You must take serious account of the positions of the federation of operators who - because there is infrastructure - have to be installed in the power stations at all, it must be compulsory to place them. To conclude, of course, I should like to say that in order to deal with air pollution in addition to electric vehicles and the changes in the transport sector, which are to a maximum extent burden, we must review the green ring, where applicable, to ban the entry of diesel vehicles into the centres of large cities. This is a key issue in dealing with air pollution. In conclusion, Mr President, I will say that an amendment to free reconnection and free supply of electricity to population groups affected by the pandemic was tabled by the SYRIZA. Minister, in some committee you said there were no electricity cuts. Last week, the Undersecretary mentioned the opposite. We have asked for evidence from the DEDDIE, because the evidence we have may not be accurate, for how many power cuts have been made. We specifically referred to it. The Minister said that three times he would sign the HR for the reunion, sign it, but he did not proceed, etc. We would like a clear answer on your part. With our amendment, which we are tabling, we are talking about people who are affected, especially in the case of COVID -19, who are all aware that many have gone through very difficult times. We set a limit for free supply of electricity, suspension of any holidays, reconnections directly, from 2021 and after the dues have been paid. On the basis of some evidence to give a large piece of free megawatt (MW) that corresponds to the minimum needs of a household, and from there on to join the social invoice B. We believe that the government should show this sensitivity to our weak fellow citizens. We're waiting for specific answers. And finally, I come back to the fact that, whatever money was secured by the Cohesion Fund and all that we have lived in these days, we would like precise answers about how they will be exploited and how they will really relieve our Greek people, fellow humans and fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. I will invite the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Georgios Arvanitides. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finally seen 'white smoke' in Europe, in the Recovery Fund. Europe has demonstrated maturity, has agreed, with great, of course, compromises between the north and the south. Our country can get about the same total sums, but, unfortunately, the relationship between loans and direct financing is worse. Of course, something that concerns us - it concerns your ministry, Minister - is that the funds for a fair transition are limited to one third. Unfortunately, he was the great loser of the Fair Transfer Fund, to come to an agreement. EUR 30 billion has fallen to EUR 10 billion. This, unfortunately, as we will see then, by calculation, forms resources for a fair transition of EUR 1 billion less for the country. The government must, of course, move directly and bring a programme to Parliament to make use of resources in consultation with the parties. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it may be the last national opportunity to change our productive model. Returning to the bill, the government with this bill wants to convince us that it adopts the green agenda. At the same time, it has announced a spatial bill, changes to the Hymatus protection regime and a climate change clause in all bills. However, because we believe that all of this is not in DNA ideological and political - and I mean green policies, economists, democratisation of energy - it often resorts to and borrows and copys expressions and positions from us. As I have explained to the committee, it is good to adopt proposals and words that we have said for a long time, Minister. It is enough, however, that you also adopt their right content when you invest in them your green account, a green account that the previous government has had, but it has collapsed on many fronts in practice. Sadly, we all watch voices two years later, revelations about Matty. All I want to mention today, by making a small parentheses in my position, is that with the manoeuvres, as they have been, and as they are revealed, the good external witness for the Fire Corps is, unfortunately, tampering with new "fires" in Mani and Kythira. Furthermore, no one is entitled to intervene in the work of experts and in the work of justice, neither the government nor the opposition. I return to the bill, for which the government has launched its communication campaign for months, by invoking even the first Greek electric vehicle, the Enfield 8000, built in 1973, by the Goulandris company. He did not, however, tell us that at the time the Government of Karamanlis in New Democracy never licensed this vehicle, as the state could not find a way to tax it. I do not know, of course, whether such a matter arises or arises on the reverse in the near future, Minister. On the one hand, you and the Secretary-General are bringing tax incentives for electric vehicles and, on the other hand, tomorrow the Ministry of Finance finally finds ways to tax them. Unfortunately, it will not be foreclosed as a prospect. We have already witnessed the confusion caused on the market by the contradictory provisions of this bill and those that were consulted at the same time in the tax bill. I am referring to the ban on imports of old Euro 1 vehicles Euro 2, Euro 3, or simply on over-taxation, as the Ministry of Finance has proposed, which primarily concerns the weakest economic buyers. This draft law is therefore presented by the Government as the most radical environmental policy for sustainable mobility, but at the same time, which, at the same time, is more substantial actions and Sustainable Mobility Infrastructures, such as the development of rail, tram, the metro, the most environmentally friendly means, remains stagnant or delayed and is not in the government's priorities or is being piloted as rough walking plans in Athens, without any cohesion, which is only "a great walk". At the Change Movement we are in favour of electric movement, but it must be understood that we do not make our movements for the sake of taste or fashion. There is a whole rationale, with a view to sustainable mobility, based on principles and priorities, to halt climate change. It must be supported by a brave but escalating subsidy, based on income and other criteria, and by ensuring green energy from RES at the charging points. For these reasons, the Change Movement has said "yes" in the first place, but we will not vote in favour of the specific articles which reflect this fragmentary institution and the non-income criteria horizontally subsidisation of the electricity movement in Greece. I shall, of course, acknowledge, Minister, that you have made improvements after consulting and hearing the bodies. Nevertheless, despite the right direction regarding the regulatory framework of your legislative initiative, this is an intervention of a fragmented, small range, accompanied by a lot of visibility and communication, which concerns a few, as the acquisition of an electrical vehicle in today's Greek society and a reality concerns those who already have a car and are interested in getting a second or a third. Our general position and philosophy in energy matters is that they must be channelled as large as possible into the weakest economics. Subsidies are good, of course, on electric scooters and bicycles and an attempt to develop the domestic construction industry of these products. But, ultimately, the main benefits of the bill will be companies and especially foreigners and not natural persons seeking economic and sustainable ways of moving. That is why we have proposed - and we are proposing - ways of strengthening the most vulnerable groups. We propose, Minister, that you rethink the redistribution of resources and actions, with more specific and targeted criteria and brave motives. For example, for the remote islands and their permanent inhabitants or for the many families. Of course, as I have said before, the news from Brussels today is not pleasant on the issues we have about the fair transition of the decommissioning fund. We are once again proposing concrete measures for the regions of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis, regions that can take the lead in the new era of electromobility. I am pleased to note that several of our proposals already find a positive response and are adopted by various aspects, such as the energy communities of the region or the incentives for business installation. We will continue our creative opposition with proposals, as we are now entering a critical phase in order to ensure the proper use of the funds in the recovery package and actions to be financed by the European green agreement. The Change Movement will contribute positively, analyzing the proposals of the Pissaridis Commission, as well as those of the fair transition. We will propose measures and policies for the recovery and achievement of our country's targets for reducing emissions and saving energy for 2030, but also for moving towards zero emissions in 2050. I close my references to the electricity arrangements, saying that the ambitious objective of the ESRB for 2030, so that one of the three cars that will be put into circulation in Greece will be electric, can only become a reality if the almost non-existent charging infrastructure network in Greece is rapidly developed. In this part, it is certain, Minister, that we will soon need new legislation, both from your Ministry and from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping, Interior, Digital Policy and Finance. With regard to the amendments which bring about extensions, regulations of arbitrary nature, but also a number of energy and environmental issues, we are once again taking note of the bad way and planning and the upset that you are bringing you many times on the market, reactions caused by the Ministry's delays and the lack of consultation to regulate these issues. Especially, the delays in your arbitrary arrangements have brought together all operators and you have blocked for almost a month almost all the purchase of real estate, engineers, lawyers and notaries. It shall be extended in time after the deadline has expired on 30-6-2020 for the settlement of arbitrary structures for a period of three months until the end of September due to a pandemic. Unfortunately, this is not a serious piece of legislation, as is the regulations on the Green Fund. You must, Minister, make a greater effort to convince us of the need for the management of the Green Fund's environmental programmes to be entrusted to intermediaries. Of course, what to say about the "LARCO" that since February we have pointed out that your government's legislation does not ensure the company's viability and leaves an open window for its compulsory bankruptcy, with a significant part of the company's assets being sold. We have noted that the time limits for the arbitration procedure to resolve the company's property disputes with the Greek State are unrealistic. We also stressed that with the electromobility promoted in the car industry, nickel and cobalt are strategically important, not only for Greece, but for Europe and their demand in the coming years will be multiplied. Five months later, the government does not give concrete answers to the course of the special management, it does not bring about an amendment covering the transporter's skills in the mines in Kastoria and it does not submit documents which have been requested on several occasions under parliamentary scrutiny by my colleague, Mr Mulkiotis. While LARCO lost its customers and is now a shadow of its old self, with a limited role in the international market, its biggest competitor, the nickel factory in Skopje, which is in a resolution phase - after its bankruptcy and its acquisition - took a life kiss just when it needed to recover it. I am, of course, waiting for you, Minister, and your responses to the specific issues that I have submitted to you and to the minutes of the last committee, which relate to arrangements that you have as an amendment to the rate of return and to its increase in Latinisation for local quarrying, the amendment of the law on municipal quarrying, so that the compensatory fee goes directly to local communities by analogy, as is the case in Law 3468/2006 and relates to renewable energy sources, the change in the method of attesting the agricultural capacity for photovoltaics, the construction of photovoltaics in greenhouses, but also a number of additional issues that the energy market expects from you and many times you and the Secretary-General are making relevant references, such as the application of the reference price of renewable energy stations to be determined on the basis of a declaration of readiness to connect stations and not on the basis of their inspection, as long delays in the implementation of their connection projects. You are right in dealing with the amendment that you have already put in place for the Peloponnese and Evia, as regards licences that have not been able to be implemented and which are extended due to the bureaucratic problems and weaknesses that exist in the TENs, as well as the issues that you are addressing with regard to network capacity. It is a big question of how the networks will be strengthened so that they can accept the requirements and intentions of creating RES projects as a whole in the country. Accordingly, the application of the reference value of the RES stations referred to in Article 135 of Law 4685 to be determined on the basis of the time when the electricity sale contract is signed with the AIA, rather than on the basis of the time of a preparedness declaration or on the basis of the time of their operation. Like also the amendment of paragraph 5 of Article 17 of Law No4685, in order to ensure that, in the event of the transfer of a right, the acquirer pays far smaller fees and not exactly the same fees already paid by the person holding the certificate. There are other things, of course, that we will continue to propose and will be delivered to you personally. I conclude, Mr President, by reminding the House of what I said to the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in February 2018 on hydrocarbons mining. So I said that she must run the procedures quickly, especially for the plots of Crete and give us a timetable for her next moves. The same thing I said to you, Minister, about a year ago, September 2019, before the illegal Turkish memorandum was signed, calling on you to move quickly, especially on the far east land under Crete. I ask you to tell us what you will do specifically about this region, because we know and follow Turkey's strategy and pursuits. In the Movement of Change we have been saying this for two and a half years and making suggestions, but unfortunately "voodoo voice". We must no longer waste any more valuable national time. Turkey's aggression escalates geometrically. We in this House do not want to convene either the Council of Political Heads of State for a national line, and the government itself sends contradictory signals to Ankara, either through secret diplomacy or through contradictory statements from its ministers. And as long as the years pass, unfortunately, the value of any mineral wealth goes down due to the shift in the RES. I would therefore urge the government once again to stand up to the national situation and to draw up a decisive national energy strategy that is part of the European and appropriate alliances to proceed to the full exercise of our sovereign rights, both south-east of Crete and wherever necessary and nationally beneficial, without lionisations, but with the proper preparation and pursuit of the maximum national consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I will invite the special speaker of the JRC and Vice-President of the House, Mr. George Lambroulis. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Our wise people, after all, know that and those who are listening to us and who are also aware of it, say: 'Wherever you hear many cherries, keep a small basket'. So let us not forget the triumphs of billions flying in the air and where they will end up, because the support measures of the economy or economies at European Union level that have been decided will have a clear class mark in favour of business groups and will load people with new memoranda of duration, since aid to the Member States will be accompanied by tough anti-Fraud measures and surveillance mechanisms. So what is certain, for our people, is that it will be called upon to pay the new packages either cash, new permanent barbaric measures, or in instalments, i.e. by restructuring that will affect their lives as a whole. And we're coming to the bill. We are discussing, as in the committee, a bill, as we said in the general policy of the European Union, the urban order for so-called green development, green investment projects and ultimately the new Green Agreement. It is a policy that has the following main objectives: firstly, to provide a profitable investment way out of ponds, which have accumulated, secondly, that the European Union should address the energy superiority of the United States and Russia in the hydrocarbons sector, and thirdly, to absorb green technology goods in which the European Union has a comparative advantage. Achievement of this strategy, the so-called green agenda of the European Union, is the promotion of electromobility in order to extract more from the pie of international markets on behalf of European automobile groups, in order to enhance their competition with the United States of America, with China and with China and by saying. In order to achieve these objectives, the Commission has already taken specific decisions in response to the requirements of the automotive industry in order to provide a series of incentives for direct and indirect aid to groups to promote the purchase of motor vehicles and their production and, respectively, the production of batteries, batteries and others. It is precisely these objectives that Greece is fully coordinated, since both the previous government of SYRIZA and the current state of the New Democracy are determined to do everything in their power to promote this market. So, overall, electricity is present, it appears as a response to some environmental problems, and even for them it is doubtful how much it actually answers them. Secondly, it aims to stimulate the industrial production of certain sectors and to enhance the profitability of capital in these sectors. It covers the major losses that it brings to the workers' grassroots mattresses and earned by the draft law will be the major automotive industries that have and promoted electrical solutions even at the expense of others, large-scale manufacturers of electric cars, the construction industry that will build charging infrastructure, renewable energy groups and liberated energy, but at the expense of popular strata. So, despite the opposite analysis in the bill, electricity increases drastically the total cost of moving for the popular layers, when one takes into account their purchase and the rapid reduction in their resale price, since a new battery will be needed at high cost. This also explains the multiple measures included in the bill, which practically reduce the cost of using electric cars at the expense of others - parking charges, the environmental charge on imported old technology, etc. - while it is summarized by the analysis that the cost per 100 km of a conventional car is derived from the huge monopolistic profits of the refined oil companies and the great state tax on fuel. Fourthly, the analysis of non-emissions of greenhouse gases from electric cars is false and at least misleading, if one takes account of all losses, and this analysis covers the overall environmental footprint of electric cars on energy consumption. Fifthly, the total cost of electricity mobilisation in society as a whole, such as the cost of new electrical infrastructure, chargers, etc., is not calculated. This is because the draft law eventually distributes it - i.e. loads it - to the popular strata that they will pay indirectly and directly for the electricity infrastructure through increased traffic charges for old cars to reduce electricity or for mandatory mailing infrastructures in buildings, etc. At the same time, government policy promotes investment in related infrastructure with tax exemptions and direct payments, which will also be called upon to pay for the people. Thus, under the pretext of reducing the pollutants and with the gospel of the European Union's green agenda, the government, in the steps of the previous government, SYRIZA, gives new provocative privileges to business groups for the establishment of new production units in the regions of Western Macedonia, Arcadia - with the articles on the subject, 5 to 8 - where the defoliation plans proceeded with the thousands of redundancies and further undermining the country's productive potential. In addition, some time ago, the Prime Minister gave the signal of what the workers have to expect from these new green business groups, after he assured the business groups that these regions will become vast special economic zones, a green 'EL DIANOTO', which the Minister told us is also listening to, of course, whistling indifferent to the investment havens that will be created for business groups with tax reductions, reduced employers' contributions, increased depreciation rates, the costs of which will be deducted from their gross revenues, increased by 15% and more. At the same time as the workers, the self-employed, the farmers, the majority of our people pay and pay unbearable taxes imposed on them by all the governments, at the same time as their rights and conquests are being removed in order to strengthen the profits of business groups either through direct hot money or through tax exemptions, tax exemptions and, of course, cheap labour. Really, even the 100 million dowries you give for start-up - apart from the hundreds of millions in the coming years - from where will they come from? Who's gonna pay for it to become an incentive to promote electricity? The people. And all of this comes to be added to the rest of the government's planning for the so-called "fair transition", which in the name of the supposed restoration of the consequences of the closure of PPC's lignite plants, comes to give new privileges to the renewable energy groups, electricity, etc., which will have, however, a heavy impact on the workers' rights and energy poverty to be gigged. It will also involve the country's energy dependence and there will be a great risk of further increasing competition. Moreover, the 20-year-old experience confirms that the path of liberalisation of energy has gone hand-in-hand with the scanning of labour rights, with 12 hours and 16 hours' work, hunger wages and pensions, the deterioration of workers' health and safety measures. This reality seeks to hide or obscure the government, the Minister through the bill for the creation, for example, of jobs through the creation of special economic zones in the areas of Western Macedonia, Arcadia, as I said before, as the further restructuring of PPC, on the basis of the planned plans for its administration with the SYRIZA Government, include thousands of redundancies in PPC, with voluntary exits, early retirement, maintenance of the recruitment freeze, with further intervention in the collective agreements between employees and as well. Thus, only mockery and mockery for the people of these regions are the assurances of all governments that the consequences of the dismantling of the heavy lignite power station industry, especially in West Macedonia, will be compensated for by various subsidized post-training seminars, agricultural tourism programmes and activities such as cannabis production. As for the many jobs that the business groups of renewable energy will create, for example, in return, it is typical that the Prime Minister himself invoked at the opening of a large-scale investment unit of EUR 350 million - that the jobs, at the project's operating stage, will all be forty. In this respect, it is revealing that all the other parties, including their resignations to municipalities, regions, regions and regions, and their falsification - New Democracy - SYRIZA - KINAL - have expressed, of course, and the committee, with the aim of entanglement and disorientation of the people in order to transform these regions into a ghetto of cheap labour, with the creation of special economic zones, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the introduction of prerogatives for the large capital through fast track procedures which will not even account for the minimum protection of public health and the environment. Thus, if the governments of New Democracy and SYRIZA were of real interest for the environment, they would bear burdens on the large, for example, hydroelectric power plants, which contribute, at the same time, to water, irrigation and flood protection. They would not increase gas electricity, which is a huge waste of energy, nor would they allow the installation of wind parks to be accompanied by the destruction of large areas of forest land, with the disruption of biodiversity and hydrological equilibrium, with the provocatively disproportionate distribution of wind farms, with Kafereas, for example, being taught as an example in schools to overconcentrate such plants. Moreover, the money wasted in this anti-grassroots framework of the European Union, as well as in order to strengthen the network to compensate for the instability created by renewable energy sources, could be made available for the use of domestic lignite with modern technology more environmentally friendly, with units of combined high energy efficiency, as well as for the relocation of settlements that are adjacent to polluting activities. Thus, the central choices of all governments to replace lignite, the liberalisation of the energy market, which will create more jobs or reduce the electricity price, cannot, of course, with serious remarks, since the people have seen prices in the last decade by 150% - among other things, subsidising the profitability of green predators - while 30% of the population in our country is for the well submerged in energy poverty. All this is a lie about lying, since the strategic objectives of the bourgeoisie in terms of energy, not only do they not go hand in hand with the popular needs for cheap energy, stable work with rights and protection of the environment, but they are being reversed. And in these strategic choices New Democracy - SYRIZA and in close proximity to KINAAL, they agree with the individual management differences they show just to blur water. In fact, it would only be laughing if it were not bitter for our people that the policies that have been applied successively New Democracy and SYRIZA, listening to you - in committee especially - would try to find your class political differences, when with your policies you have been successively serving and you are serving precisely the class-based bias in favour of capital and class anesthesia for workers and people's strata, which today's rulers are trying to hide the waters, as are the previous SYRIZA government's priors who have reached the point of baptising the class of many, their policy on the backs of the people. As far as environmental impacts are concerned, the bill is hypocritical. It covers the huge burden that is required, for example, for the production of batteries, but also of other components and dramatic environmental impacts, promoting with fast track processes related to investment, aspiring to host hazardous installations. At the same time it covers and does not take into account, for example, the huge print on the use of water for lithium batteries in areas or similar mining sites. Electricity cannot yet fully meet the needs and practically work as a second car due to low autonomy, high-collector need - which will not exist - very high-cost, but also different user profiles depending on the temperatures of the environment, in very cold or very hot. Because what we have in mind through the bill - and we have said in committee - is that it is necessary for our people to think and draw conclusions - is, of course, a contradiction in this system: the development of technology, for example, in electricity, in energy by extension, and in other areas, instead of contributing to the improvement of life, working conditions, the reduction of working time and the increase in free time, respectively, to the increase in wages and rights, is a threat to workers, much more so because the workers are being called upon to sacrifice themselves for investment, competition, the profits of business groups which determine on the basis of their profitability, whether they are produced, but also where and not on terms and not on the basis of the constantly expanded needs of our people. Similarly, green policies, with which all governments are successively aligned and one catches the thread from where the other left it, have nothing to do with protecting the environment, which is systematically destroyed because of the capitalist way of production. This is also visible deadly enemy and danger, not only for the environment, but also for the rights of workers, the people's layers in our country and not just for the environment. The JRC - and I am closing down, Mr President - 'lights' that there is a solution that can satisfy all the needs of the people, make the most of the achievements of science and technology, meet the energy needs of the people's family, protect the environment and their health, reduce the country's energy dependence, steady jobs with a boost to the balanced development of the regions of the country. And to implement this solution requires the working class, the people take the economy and the steering wheel of power, so that the aim of production is social needs rather than capitalist profit. So the energy product will be a social good for everyone rather than a commodity. It is therefore about a radically different development path where all domestic energy sources and means of production, transport and distribution of energy will be state-owned. In this context of socialism, energy central planning will be able to use combined all available domestic sources and all available technical solutions to improve the country's current energy mix to ensure popular prosperity. Scientific research will also be used to provide timely for the future needs of society between, for example, public transport and cars and go by saying. And in this direction the JRC is moving forward to organize the struggle of the people and to open up this hopeful path of the real overthrow. In view of the above, Mr President, we are voting against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Until the special speaker of the Greek Solution comes to Stepma, Mr. Vassiliardos, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Minister of Education and Religion, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Tourism and State, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, tabled a draft law on 21-7-2020: "Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs responsibility". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government is trying to turn Greece into a modern capitalist country, into an extreme neoliberal region better - to be more precise - in a region, since a failed state, like our own, cannot be described as a national sovereign country. What does it mean, really, a failed state? It is simply a country where the legitimately elected government with its fifty-eight Members fails to take decisions on its own, to provide good public services or to cooperate with other states on an equal footing with an international community. According to international literature, a state that cannot fulfil three central functions for citizens is considered to be a failure: first, to provide them with security, second, prosperity and third, legality in the sense of the integrated rule of law. Obviously none of the three are happening in Greece today, nor in the last ten years. In the bill now, on the one hand, electricity is being promoted, while, on the other, Greece is being forced, in the new name of Memorandum number 4, with increased supervision, we recall that the "troika" was renamed "positions" to avoid reacting - on the other hand, to sell out all its energy operations, such as the PPC, DESMA, PPC, IPTO, the DEDDIE, ELPE and so on. At the same time, instead of subsidising domestic production of electric cars, the government is subsidising imports of EUR 100 million, mainly from Germany and indeed from the company responsible for the fraud of Dieselgate. What did the Minister for Development answered us in our last question about German fraud, one of the many, of course, Germany? That Greece does not have the institutional framework required, when the European Union at the same time blames us for not asking for compensation like all other states. What else can anyone say about those who rule us? Absolutely nothing. Finally, instead of the government supporting the production of batteries on the occasion of electric cars from LARCO, which has the potential - and it can be supported by the public, since the European Union is now allowing this to happen because of the pandemic - it is deporting it with a view to selling it out. As we will testify in the Minutes - usually I do later - all together - it says 'no' for Greek wind turbines on the rocky islands, when it says 'yes' on the Germans in tens of areas of Greece, including NATURA. We will now start by the fact that electricity is not something new or a state-of-the-art technology. Besides, some of the first cars manufactured were electrical. It is no innovation internationally, but it is not for Greece either, since in our country it had been produced in 1973 to 1975, the Enfield 8000, which the Prime Minister has the irresponsibility to use in his statements. Immediately because the company closed down in 1975 because the New Democracy Government did not support it. The very successful "TIAR" in Volos, however, collapsed in 1995, the company that had the first "NISSAN" plant in Europe. Also, "BIAMAX" and other smaller ones, while "ELVO", which can build buses, has been building so many years - it is inactive and NAMCO is still trying to start at the beginning of Pony. It would, however, be more honorable for the Prime Minister to announce support for electric motors with a background of a German car, such as Mr Hatzidakis at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki to a private provider with imported energy, with the help of the NOMEs who voted with the 3rd Memorandum of the three major parties - still large - as well as the grants of imported RES technologies. With regard to electromobility in recent history, there has been a committee to promote it from the Ministry of the Environment in 2011, while the study was published in 2012, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. It provided for eleven thousand three hundred fifteen electric cars in Greece until now, in 2020, based on the table that we will also submit later in the Minutes, and today there are no more than five hundred, no more than eleven thousand fifteen. In particular, in Greece we have the lowest market share in the European Union of 0.3% after Poland and Slovakia, when Portugal's market share is 3.4%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Unfortunately, instead of developing the sector, all our governments have taken care to sell out public enterprises, some of which the state is subsidising today, such as TRAINOSE, with 750 million, which we sold for 45, and we are subsidising it with 750, the 'FRAPORT' which calls for 175 million compensation for lockdown or motorways. At the same time, in 2010-2011, a research programme of the Metsovian Polytechnic University, CiBE, together with the Region of Attica, had also been launched to examine the possibility of converting a conventional car to an electric car, at a cost of EUR 5,000 to 7,000, as we will testify in the Minutes, in 2014. And according to the press release, which we will also be tabling, a presidential decree was expected to be issued to grant the conversion permit so that it can be offered by the workshops. Nothing's happened at all. We must note here that the United States sells packages of conversion on the Internet, which can be easily placed even by private individuals. In any case, this is an opportunity that is completely missing from the bill despite the fact that it exists in the European Union. It is something that would reduce pollutant emissions, increase jobs, while limiting the outflow of money abroad, especially at a time when our inflation is backing up and we will have a very large balance deficit. Unless, of course, the government thinks that one should travel to Europe, to another country in the European Union to do the conversion. When we now tabled a question for the Department of Certification of Small Electric Vehicles at the beginning of October 2019, the Ministry replied that it would take care of it, if there is interest, but there is, like the electric tricycle Archon, which we will table in the Minutes. However, despite the fact that there is an interest, no similar office will be created, which substantiates that the intention or mandate of foreigners is to import. Continued, a second committee for the entry of electric motors took place again in the HYPEKA in 2014, as we will testify in the Minutes, called the “Electric Mobility Group”. The New Democracy also ruled. We asked what happened and did not, of course, get any answers. Generally now in the articles, the bill relates first of all to the introduction of used diesel engines and tax incentives for the purchase of electric cars, either from the public or from private individuals, but without, in our view, covering smaller categories of electric vehicles. In addition, there are specifications for the installation of charging stations, certain procedural issues, such as workshops, CTEOs, fire protection and parking, some reorganisations at the Ministry, as well as usual recruitments. On the main lines of the guidelines now: we have no doubt that the objectives of the programme will be verified, on the basis of Cyprus where there was great interest in a withdrawal programme by promoting electricity, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Recently, it stopped because it exceeded its estimates and the possibilities of its budget. In addition, there is already a great interest in Greece, judging among other things by the organizations of holders and stakeholders, as well as by the Hellenic Institute of Electric Motors, which was established in 1991, about thirty years ago. Of course, electric cars cost a lot more than conventional ones, so the provisions are in fact insignificant for the vast majority of Greeks. However, they will probably be preferred by the companies, noting that more than half of the new cars are sold in Greece. With the program now "KINUMI ELECTRIC" announced by the Prime Minister, electric cars, as we mentioned, will be subsidized with EUR 100 million for eighteen months in order to make them more accessible to average incomes, although we believe that it is due to a mandate from Germany aimed at supporting the exports of its automotive industry, just as immediately after the crisis of 2008. In the twenty-five proposals, of course, the New Democracy programme did not provide for the grant of the purchase of electric vehicles, but only for the reduction of the tax, and we will also be tabling them in the Minutes. It is reasonable, therefore, that our above suspicion regarding Germany is correct. Continuing on the crucial issue of their use due to their required charging, electric cars are not addressed to everyone, since someone needs to have a parking space and a socket. The infrastructure is inexistent and will take many years, until a network is organised that will serve the citizens, while in addition the electric vehicles still have little autonomy, so they are not so helpful and attractive to most people. In 2019, however, we had about seventy chargers in Greece, and today we have a few dozen more. Many of them are not freely accessible, since they are in private parking. On the other hand, New Democracy has banned the creation of charging stations while, when we asked, it told us that the European Union is not allowed to do so, but when the respective Cyprus TEN has and manufactures such chargers. Since then, however, only a few dozen were added, when the TEN had already had a whole programme in place since then. It is funny, therefore, to claim that the TEDDIE was asked if it can withstand, according to an article that we will present in the Minutes, since it had planned a thousand five hundred chargers up to now, in 2020, and we will also submit to the Minutes. A thousand five hundred, and now we have no more than seventy! Where, however, the bill is totally frustrated is the total absence of plans for the production of electric cars in Greece, since there are just one - two regulations that are blurred and incomprehensible, while production is being strengthened only in Arcadia and West Macedonia. Greece did not participate in the development of the internal combustion engine industry, so at least it must not be absent again in the production of electric cars. In conclusion, the committees have discussed the articles in detail, so we will not repeat the same here. Besides, we got very few answers. We will only list some of our proposals, noting that we would like to vote on the bill, provided that at least: Firstly, the financing and subsidisation of domestic production, most importantly. Secondly, there should be a commitment to spread the charging network across Greece rather than selectively, at the discretion of the representatives. Thirdly, a joint ministerial decision should be notified as to how the EUR 100,000 will be allocated. We mean these models and items, without photographic checks. We would never give a white check to the Minister, according to the bill. Fourthly, it is possible to allow changes in conventional electrical power as well as to grant subsidies to imports of used electricity. Don't they really help the cheaper used electrical environment? Fifth, create an office for certifications. Sixth, the joint ministerial decisions on safety regulations should be notified to workshops that must have certified conservers, fire safety, etc. Seventhly, there must be a assurance that an exchange rate will be respected in the distribution of cars, between companies leasing on the one hand and individuals on the other, not just companies subsidising. Eighth, not to fund the TAs with taxpayers' money, free private parking places for electricity. Ninth, the representatives should assume the risk of a fine being paid by the European Union for the purpose of violating Community legislation on customs duties on imported used passenger cars. Tenthly, there is a market quota for electric vehicles with subsidies for leases and corporate fleets. 11th, that consumer compensation should be introduced in the event of fraud of the Dieselgate type, so that we do not say again that we did not have the right laws. Twelfth, widen the range of car offered with cheaper cars, such as Chinese. Thirdly, the establishment of a battery recycling system - very important - before import starts. Fourthly, a spatial study on charging should be launched and, finally, most importantly, our energy companies should not be sold out. We've cost enough to our children, mortgage Greece for the remaining ninety years. That's enough! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u12	I will now call on Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni at Step 25, and then we will decide on the Prime Minister's proposal to set up a intergroup parliamentary committee aimed at preparing proposals for the development of Thrace. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, MPs and MPs, today we are discussing the draft law on electromobility under the great shadow of environmental law, when the government majority of this House has passed mining in "NATURA", large wind parks in "NATURA", when we have scientific studies documenting that it is not necessary to touch these areas in order to achieve the objectives of the RES, when we have abolished the management agencies, mineral waste disposal sites, hazardous sites, without any authorisation, five-year extension of the environmental license for the extraction of gold in Skouria and other environmentally harmful activities. The hunt has been allowed using wildlife, hunting with hawks. And here I want to denounce the company 'COSMOTE', which, with a misleading advertising shows a captured hawk, which is flying to freedom. He sells freedom to get customers. In this unacceptable way it continues your work, Minister, which you promote and allow the bill to hunt for the hawks. It is unacceptable for COSMOTE and for this step to withdraw this misleading advertising. In the forest maps, Minister, you bring their indefinite postponement and with your ministerial decision, which specified this postponement, now, in the midst of the anti-nuclear period, in the midst of all this risk that runs lives and property, beyond the environment, beyond the forests, again give the economic incentive to tramples for 55% of the areas closed down by forest maps and re-open them. That's how you arm their hand. Mr. Hatzidakis knows, but I have to inform the House that the night of World Environment Day, where a huge demonstration had taken place against the environmentally sound oil mining bill, there were civilians left and they protested by morning. The vigilant citizens who protested every day since the bill was passed up to that time were arrested and prayed to the GDR for five and a half hours. He refused - with a political mandate, I imagine - the police will give these citizens water by violating human rights and civil liberties. Five and a half hours was in the GDR without any water. For five and a half hours, while he had informed a citizen that he had epilepsy and needed medication, he was denied this medication. For five and a half hours a minor student - from nine to two and a half at noon - could not communicate with her parents. I call on all Members and MPs to think if they were the parents of this child, how would they feel, when they would not know where their child was for five and a half hours? Environmental crime, however, continues. A new port has been launched in Piraeus, without environmental permits. The Citizen's Counselor says so. They had started the downhills, without even checking the study or consulting the PPE to which they were sent and are now under consideration, when 1/3 of the dredgings have been completed, i.e. the evacuation of the port of Piraeus and the disposal of all this toxic mud that has accumulated over the years there, in the Argosaronic. The Council of State has stopped this illegal process, after security measures have been requested by the citizens, but continues the mess again, without environmental authorisation. From July 2nd, until today, the boboma becomes, without an auditor of archaeologists, in an archaeological area as important as the seafront of Piera, the sea wall of Piraeus, the monument of Themistocles and so on. Environmental crime continues in the Race. At the moment, the citizens of western Athens cannot be on their balcony, on their playground, on the public space, because now with the "floods" any natural obstacle has been overcome and the abundance of the waste reaches Petroupoli and the other regions of western Athens at a cost to public health, at the cost of private property, Minister. When you are preparing to bring combustible combustion to the substance of plastic garbage in the Race, when you are also preparing to bring burning to Ptolemais 5, not lignite this time, but plastic, you are bringing a bill on electricity in this legislative environment. A bill that is positive, but not enough to "wrap" your environmental crime. If you want to wash it, remove your environmental law. But this bill also has a lot of gaps. In an effort to reach the end of your social sensitivity, you are putting a cap on subsidies for high-value cars, instead of making it self-evident, completely abolishing these subsidies to the citizens who do not have the need, as they have the money to buy a super-accurate electric car and get that money and give it to the citizens who will not otherwise have access to the electric car market, who will not be able to participate in this necessary society revolution. You leave on the market the design of the electricity network, the network of chargers, at the same time as we know that this means that large parts of the Greek region will be left out of the network of chargers, which means that we now exclude citizens, not only on the basis of class criteria, but also on the basis of spatial determination, on the basis of where they live. What should be done is to have one or two chargers at every gas station, Minister. What I have asked you from the start of the debate is that the gas stations should be involved, and I am in favour of their compulsory participation, with an obligation to place a charger on each gas station and with incentives to install photovoltaics on top and next to the gas stations. This must be done, wherever possible, so that we can have green energy as much as possible and that is what we give cars. But why don't we also motivate the withdrawal of the old technology cars, which are the majority of cars on the Greek streets? You said to the committee, in reply to this remark, 'but there is a withdrawal measure'. As long as we searched, we didn't find any active withdrawal measure unless you mean taxi. I'd like you to tell us, or you can make it up to us. Why don't you ban the sale of conventional cars after 2030 or later? But give a certain date. The Netherlands, Denmark, Slovenia, Ireland and Iceland have set a date for the sale of conventional cars in 2030. Let's just say we're going back a little bit. We must, however, give a message to the market. We need to put a landmark on it. This would, of course, damage the importers of conventional cars. Why don't you subsidize the conversion into electric cars, like other countries in the world? This would, of course, damage importers. Why don't you allow imports of used electric cars? Show us where you predict it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u14	Why isn't it allowed? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u15	I'm not saying you're not allowed. I'm sorry, I'm correcting it, it's not subsidizing. You are not incentivising the purchase of used electric cars too, as you are encouraging the purchase of other cars. The reason why this proposal is is, because we need cheap cars, Minister, so that people can go to electricity. Of course, I say again that he would do harm to the importers of conventional cars once again. I come to the wider subject. Why don't you make a binding commitment at European level, namely, the electricity supply of ships in ports? Bring it into this bill. It would, of course, require the owners, the private buyers of our ports, to make green investments. I come to the issue of over-qualification. You're telling us that you're afraid, if you put a plaque on the price, everyone's going to go to the plaque. But, Minister, here we have complaints about the risk of overpricing and, if it is not regulated by the state, everyone will go up to another plaque that defines a market and will be too high. We're listening for 40 minutes a kilowatt now, we hear about time burdens, things that will be impossible for the citizen to control. We invite you to put this plaque, to be a measured plaque and don't worry, I'm sure if you put it on social criteria, then it will be a wall, which will be much lower than that of the market. I've already talked to you about green energy in the charging areas. But it should also be done at home, Minister. Is it possible for Greece to be one of the few countries now without a commitment to install photovoltaics in new houses, newly built buildings? We are also starting this whole process with electric cars, without even having started discussing the issue of recycling lithium batteries, which is important on the basis of the data we have on the mismanagement that has taken place over time in batteries of conventional cars. You have not given indications that you want to improve the gaps in this bill. We reserve this bill, which we consider to be positive, but which is a part of your overall anti-environmental policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u16	And we thank Mr Arseni. As I said before, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has tabled a proposal to the President of Parliament for a Intergroup Parliamentary Committee aimed at preparing proposals for the development of Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u17	The Conference of Presidents, in its unanimous decision of 16 July 2020, recommends to the House that, without discussing the proposal, it should not be excluded that the representatives of the parliamentary groups should take the floor for two minutes at each time, in accordance with Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. Is there a parliamentary representative who wants the floor? Good, I will give the floor - because I saw the hands rise - in the order of Parliament's groups. You'll take the floor from everyone's place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u19	In the end, Mrs. Bakoyannis. You want to talk now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u20	Now you didn't give me the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u21	As a parliamentary representative, he wants the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u22	Mrs Bakoyannis will take the floor first and then the other parliamentary representatives will then be given the floor in the order of the parties. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, today, with the Greek Parliament's vote, a unanimous parliamentary committee on the development of Thrace is set up, a choice of increased importance and timely. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the sensitivity of this particular region, but also of the scale of the challenges it faces. Unfortunately, in spite of the many economic programmes that our country has had, it is in the 250th place of regional competitiveness between the two hundred and eighty-six regions throughout Europe, it faces major structural challenges, such as incomplete infrastructure, high energy costs, demographic imbalance, significant minority population and also digital delays compared to the other parts of Greece. The aim of this committee for the next six months is to propose policies for Thrace as one of the extremes of our country with special characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a great opportunity - after the successful negotiation yesterday and having our country for the next seven years some 70 billion, which we are called upon to manage - to draw up a development programme for Thrace which will allow it to return. This is an opportunity that we must not lose. To work together, because our goal is common, to offer those development tools, to take those institutional measures that are necessary and which will have a significant economic effect. But our goal is twofold: we must keep our young people in Thrace. We must bring citizens to invest in Thrace. We must trust the Thracians and we must do this together, because I do not think there is anyone in the Greek Parliament today who disagrees with this great goal. We have six months, six months to work, to propose, to agree, from there on, to support with all our forces Thrace, a Thrace which may need it today more than ever. They're very live in our memory the recent episodes on Evros. The needs of the bodies that have led the Prime Minister to make this decision are also very alive in our memory. The first step will be taken in Komotia, where the Council of Europe will come again thanks to the efforts of all the Members involved in the committee, in order to be able to discuss legal issues that concern the region. This is the first time that Komotini has received such an international conference. I want to hope and count on everyone's cooperation so that in six months the committee's unanimous conclusion will be the guide to the management of development funds over the next seven years in Thrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis. I shall now give the floor in the order of the groups. Mrs Rapti has the floor for two minutes as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to have the floor today in response to such an important and special situation. According to a request from the social, economic and political actors in Thrace, the Prime Minister asked the President of the Parliament to set up this Intergroup Committee of Parliament for the Development of Thrace. The establishment of this intergroup committee is not a process that can be considered as minor. This is not an initiative by the Prime Minister with no substance, which simply aims to show our citizens, our locusts, that it is being carried out for their region and for small and medium-sized reasons, because these kinds of old-fashioned logic, which have the very focus of impression, are in the past. The Government of New Democracy has shown that it knows how to focus on important things. She knows how to know and set priorities and is determined to move from words to implementation of her policies with projects. In the case of Thrace, the great national bet on the development of the region and the improvement of the standard of living of our locusts, along with the New Democracy, is crucial to the participation of all parties with parliamentary representation. If the political world needs consensus once on the issues of everyday life, on the issues of Thrace needs it not ten, but a hundred times. Let's talk straight and don't hide behind our finger. In Thrace in March our national survival was judged. That is not what we wanted, but Turkey. She decided to test the boundaries, tolerances, tolerances, institutions and mechanisms of the state, sending thousands of people who besieged our borders. Yes, in Thrace, national survival was judged and judged, as was judged and judged on a daily basis on the Aegean coastline, in Cyprus, throughout the whole territory, where there is Hellenism. The Intergroup Committee on Thrace is a message of hope for citizens and a call for national coexistence in the major, key issues that require collective thought and harmony. In Thrace we can prove that there is no question that can be perpetuated if we Greeks decide to solve it united. That is why I warmly welcome this initiative by the Prime Minister, and I am sure that with a multi-faceted policy at its wheel, such as Mrs Dora Bakoyannis, which has the appreciation of all the wings of the Greek Parliament, but also of the remarkable representatives of the political parties that make it up, the committee will produce important work in the next six months and contribute to a better tomorrow for the carpet people as well as for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you. To give the floor for two minutes to Mr Socrates Famelos as SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, it is well known from the Conference of Presidents that SYRIZA has agreed with several reservations about this committee. And that's because we appreciate that the government's interest in Thrace is falsified and hypocritical. Unfortunately, what Mrs Bakoyannis said a moment ago 'the fake words of the great' about Thrace have been heard from New Democracy. Because a committee was set up in '92 and the result in Thrace can be seen by all of us: deafening industrial enterprises, immigration, high unemployment and unfortunately underestimating our country's need for patriotic policy. The Prime Minister's request refers to the use of European funds for development opportunities. We asked why this right is not being exercised at the level of the region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, which is the programmer for the implementation of the projects? You refused. What for? Do you not really want to discuss development and European funds? We have proposed that the Committee of the Regions should be discussed. And you refused that. We have asked you to extend the debate on the essential issue of democracy, on the equal participation of all the citizens of Thrace in the development, progress, inclusiveness, without manipulation, with real equality. You refused. Mr President, these are the conditions that we are putting in place to participate in the committee, and these issues will be raised and when the committee begins to discuss, in order to extend to the real issues of development and democracy in the region. Because we know very well that Thrace is developing, when Greece is developing, when Greece's geopolitical role is strengthened, as was the case in the Balkans and in the south-eastern Mediterranean, during the period of the governance of SYRIZA, when Thrace became a transit hub, when it became an energy hub, when it had a development policy for the port, when we stopped the plan for the investment - both seniors - of gold, when we allowed the local communities to participate in the administration of the protected areas, from Rhodope to Delta, from Dadia to Nestos and up to Samothraki, all that you abolished with Mr. And now, while we have achieved a 10% reduction in unemployment, you come here again with crocodile tears for Thrace, which you have failed, within the bankruptcy of our country, to say something again. I'm sorry, we won't give you that. We will be involved in the committee, because we have proposals. But we'll tell you something. This debate, Mr President, must take place in society, with the citizens, with the productive players, as we did at the Komotini Development Conference. Because that is where the development is being planned, with the craftsmen, the industrialists, the producers, the farmers, the scientists and not in the closed committees, to make fussers, such as those fake words about the Recovery Fund, which you said a moment ago. In fact, when you show interest in Thrace, you will stop blowing up tourism, as you have recently done with the wrong announcement by Mr Petsa, who condemned both Rhodope and Evros at tragic devaluation of the tourism product. You did that last month. It's your responsibility, because Thrace is still going a step back. Because this week you announced the privatisation of the port in Alexandroupolis. Is that how you will achieve the development of Thrace? By selling the port to a monopoly group, to manage a national, patriotic port?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u28	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u29	This is your plan for Thrace. We, of course, Mr President, will be there because we have an opinion on productive reconstruction. You do not have a development plan, because you have also made sure that it is abolished, as well, the productive reconstruction plan. And I beg you, we do not want any more fondness, such as what you did with Mrs von der Lyen, who went to Evros, but you did not dare claim a penalty against Turkey. You didn't smiling a word about sanctions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Femelle, can you respect the procedures?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u31	...to really support Thrace. That's the real...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u32	Close, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, Thrace does not need sympathy. He needs a real patriotic policy. It's something that the Right never did. But progress will be made together. We will put forward proposals and we will be measured in the proposals for real development, real work and real democracy. That's where we'll be measured, public in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u34	You've spoken more than four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u35	Why don't we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u36	There are procedures here, rules and everything. If you protest, say it directly. Anyone can't speak here as much as they want. There are procedures. What are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u37	The Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u38	I said that, I said, that the Conference of Presidents took a unanimous decision to speak for two minutes. We respect that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u39	For two minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives. What party did Mrs Bakoyannis represent?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u40	Let go. Mrs Bakoyannis is President. Mr. Goka, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. It is also known by letter from the Secretary of our Parliamentary Group, Mr Kegeroglou, and from public statements from our President, Mrs Gennimata, that we agree at the outset on the establishment of this Intergroup parliamentary committee on the development of Thrace, with the difference - and it is our proposal - that this should be about not only Thrace, but about the whole region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Because the region is single and the purpose of safeguarding the self-government and development unity of the wider region must be served. We also want a committee dealing with the substance of the problems of this region and the development issues that need to be resolved and giving another perspective to this geographical area of our country. These should be the basic features of this committee and the framework in which we will be able to work for substantial results. It is an outlying area with many and particular problems, which also accepts well-known external pressures, lastly with the waves of migrants and refugees at its borders. In addition, more recently than other regions, it has been affected by the consequences of the pandemic, which is particularly afflicting many parts of this region. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we have always been in our positions and our priorities a special development plan for the region of East Macedonia and Thrace, which is an opportunity to develop through the work of the committee, through dialogue, proposals and also in cooperation with the players in this region, the self-government, development agencies, professional and productive bodies. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. I should like to give the floor to the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, thank you, although we did not start well. It is a pretext of what will follow the committee, especially the reactions that came from the opposition. Because the substance here, Mr President, is to consult these people so that they can have a better tomorrow. And because it has now happened in the sorrows of this committee, a step in the Greek Solution, to be found in the previous days for a two-day visit to Komotini, Thrace and Evros, we have had the opportunity firsthand to rewrite the very important problems faced by our compatriots up there and we have the opportunity to move them back to the Greek Parliament. I'm not going to get into any other issues. I am going to be in the economy, as the chairman of the committee and most of the interlocutors put it. We need to take special measures for these people. To reduce taxes, for example, on operations in Thrace. That's what they told us to transfer you, because people up there live abandoned and abandoned. It is a very serious message, which must be transferred here and taken seriously into account. They're abandoned. He cannot, for example, face huge problems with illegal immigration and not have a special tax, have no extra incentive to business. We need to see very seriously what happened with the Ziraat bank, ladies and gentlemen, upstairs, which gives loans, is blackmailing. He gives loans to Greeks, gives loans to Muslims and has created a small state up there. We must do something with the way, give the Rhodope and Evros people a way out, to go to Bulgaria. There's a big road, to open the horizon, to have a way out, to keep people from trouble, to have this extroversion that we're talking about for the citizens up there. I'm not going to go into individual issues. Because the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative mentioned it, however - he spoke about Greece's national survival -, alas, if our homeland's national survival is judged by a handful of accelerators on Evros. Greece did what it had to do. The Greek police and the National Guard did the same thing. As long as you don't like it, it was the national guards who, together with the Greek police, had been sacking the unarmed, so we closed the border, something we've been calling for a long time ago. To protect our borders with concrete walls, with wires, low voltage wires, etc., all that the Greek Solution calls for. We have heard terrible things at the beginning of the debate today, Mr President. I'm done with this. We have heard that they have reduced unemployment in Thrace, Komotini and Evros 10%. The world's hungry, I don't know if you know. Don't say things that don't apply. Also, for the town plan of the port of Alexandroupolis, I as now remember Mr. Piatt's photograph. On SYRIZA, it was not on the government of the Greek Solution. We, at least, have not ruled. And what tourism are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen? Go upstairs and see what's going on. What tourism? Go to Samothraki. There's only snakes. There's nothing wrong with him. He didn't even have a boat to go and come either. What tourism are we talking about? What support are we talking about? And because it has been mentioned and it is very important - and I am closing with it, Mr President - that I should like to say this: because committees have also been set up in the past and a lot of money has been thrown into the trash and a lot of lame has been thrown to parties, the money has not even come to the outside of Thrace. This time, the money to catch a place and the SOS emitted by our citizens, our compatriots up there, finally to catch a place and deal with the substance and not to be used in an internally and micro-political counterfactual and we are losing the meaning again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u44	The reason for two minutes is the parliamentary representative of Mera25 Mr Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we think that such a committee should not only involve the entire region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, but should also have such a debate for all the regions of our country. There are several poor regions in the country, such as Epirus, Thessaly, many, unfortunately, who face every day and are shaken by the serious financial consequences of the coronary and not just. Tourism, the retail trade, the agricultural and livestock sectors, too many manifestations of economic life and the everyday life of all of us, have been accepted. Unfortunately, there are our fellow citizens from Thrace to Rhodes, in every corner of Greece, who are struggling for their survival every day and must feel that the state, their elected representatives, stand beside them, and not only to beat their backs when they want to take them to their election. In this Intergroup Committee, we will be taking part, on the one hand, in attending all the debate that is to take place and, on the other, in tabling our own proposals, in the hope that there will be a real, substantial debate within the committee's work and that real work will be produced for the benefit of our fellow citizens and the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima, too. Mrs Bakoyannis has asked for the floor on a personal matter. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I am very sorry for the tone that Mr Famelos had during his position. I am not going to mention the fact that young children are also learning where the finger is swinging and how, but, at any rate, I would like to say that this committee has a goal and is not intended to be weighed. It's meant to work together. If, therefore, the Party of Officers has accepted to participate in this committee, I shall begin at the very beginning that our aim is to cooperate, the proposals, the policies to which I hope we will be able to agree, so that we can promote our common objective. So this committee is neither set up to make tens nor to try to win impressions nor to characterize opponents. The aim is for the representatives of the Greek Parliament together to draw up policies that will be able to turn the page to Thrace. That is the objective and he has accepted your parties. At least as far as the majority party is concerned with that logic is concerned, hoping for cooperation with the rest of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u48	We close with the government representative, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u49	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u50	What do you want, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u51	There's a personal matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u52	There's no dentistry. Mrs. Bakoyannis clarified something she considered personal. Do you have a personal issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u53	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u54	What's the personal matter? Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, Mrs Bakoyannis referred to my name, to my face. Of course, she did not substantiate the personal reason for her position. He was purely political. I'll take it. As it was a political reason, therefore, I say to her: we have said, Mrs Bakoyannis, that on political terms we will be involved in the committee, we will table proposals and we will be in a position to deal with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u56	Are we going to be confronted again?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u57	But, Mrs Bakoyannis, we do not recognise in the New Democracy the right to intervene in the definition of our own, autonomous, democratic political view. Left and SYRIZA will not take lessons from you as to what they see in Parliament. They have the opinion of the people, the view of society and the view of progress, no matter how sad this is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u58	That's why the people ranked you there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u59	We close with the government representative, Minister Hatzidakis. I would like to say, Minister, that we are not discussing policies today. We are talking about setting up the committee, whether we are involved or not. I realized that all parties will be involved and will be in committee. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the message of the Prime Minister's initiative on the establishment of a Intergroup Committee on Thrace Development seems to me to be clear. It is a message of unity among the Greeks and care for a region, for a region of our country that deserves our attention. The government and the Prime Minister are not personally convincing about this initiative. We think we're doing the self-evident thing. It is a conscious and patriotic debt that we are doing, nothing less, nothing more and I ask everyone to treat it as such. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, the message of the Greek Parliament which unanimously - and from today's debate I would like to keep the consensus - decides to make this Intergroup Committee is that the House prioritises the problems of Greek citizens of Thrace, Christians and Muslims, because Greece is a European rule of law and goes with the determination that must be made towards Turkey and when the country in question is in Thrace, but at the same time with the modern European spirit, when we are talking about human rights and the development of this region. Thirdly, I do not want to focus particularly on the objections and tensions caused by certain parties in anti-population. I consider these objections and tensions outside the spirit of the initiative and certainly under the circumstances. The Thracians are not expecting from us the image they have previously seen, especially from the side of SYRIZA, of positions which have even reached an indirect levelling-up of older initiatives, such as the Intergroup in the early 1990s under the chairmanship of the memorable Virginia Tsouteros who, in a patriotic spirit, had personally witnessed the problems of this region, when the Prime Minister was then Constantine Mitsotakis. Fourthly and lastly, ladies and gentlemen: The slow-winners among us in relation to the spirit of this initiative and the misery will eventually be isolated. Today's out-of-spot tensions and objections will be forgotten. What will remain will be the initiative of the Prime Minister for Thrace and the agreement of all Parliament's wings to this patriotic and developmental proposal of the Prime Minister, embraced by all the Thracians and all the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u61	The proposal to set up a Intergroup parliamentary committee on the development of Thrace is therefore unanimously accepted by the House without further discussion. For reasons of effective operation, the committee will be composed of twenty-five members in proportion to the parliamentary power of the parties and will submit its proposals within six months of its establishment. I call on the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, to step up and follow the procedure for waivers of immunity. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't want to comment on Thrace at all. I think it was necessary and this initiative by the Prime Minister had to be carried out. We may disagree or agree on a lot. Let us discuss whether and help our Thrace because Thrace is in danger for other reasons, not just economic. I'd like to go a little bit into the government bill. I shall begin with one question, because I have another perception of logic, Minister. Who's an electrician? It's a question. Is it attracting Greece that produces electric cars? Oh, no. Is it attracting Greece that has car chargers everywhere? Oh, no. Is it attracting Greece that produces general cars? Oh, no. Who's it for? 'AUDI', 'VOLKSWAGEN', 'VOLVO', i.e. essentially your German friends, because occasionally always behind every choice made by the government in the last year Germany is hiding. Whatever rock you raise, it's Germany underneath. However, this choice does not suit Greece, Minister. Article 4: Incentives for Greek production in western Macedonia and Arcadia. Why, Minister, especially these regions? I'll tell you why. Because you started to take out the lignites to win, as the Prime Minister of the country said, again Germany. He said, smiling by the Prime Minister, "Stop lignites and so Germany wins." He told it to a German channel, not a Greek channel. There's the video. You connect, in other words, the frustration of the country with electric power, with the production of electric cars which Greece does not produce, my Minister. In fact, the government has a collective behaviour in Germany's orders. It doesn't spoil Germany. At the request of Germany, it is doing so. Of course, this choice for Arcadia and western Macedonia, Mr Minister, reminds me of a stubborn kind of intelligence. Quakvacism reminds me of a skeptical skepticism. So I'm stopping the lignites, all people get into unemployment in the area, and I'm making them the electric car. Hey, okay! [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASOU, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS Athanasou.]] Now listen, to understand in the bill what mistakes you're making and it's not just your issue, no. Let's start with a choice of electrokinesis. I have in front of me the first electric car that was built. I don't know if you know, Minister, where he was built and who built it. It's not a foreign country, but it's the Dutch. So the Amnesty Golden, then, built a mass-produced car in Syros many decades ago, Minister. It's a six-kilovat engine. The battery lasted about eighty - mile. My Mercedes, Minister, only holds thirty three kilometers. Electricity with thirty-three kilometers to Greece, which has no outlets, let them go, my Minister. Ask me where I know. I don't know if you have an electric car, but because I have Mercedes 350, the electric car, if I don't have a battery within 20 kilometers, it's over. It's German technology, diesel runners and ribbons, and ribbons for normal! For thirty-three says the paper, for thirty-three kilometers, I bought it, and I barely get it. Because the Germans know how to smuggle. So I was talking about the Dutchman. Then the Dutch manufactured the first electric car in Syros. Ladies and gentlemen, look at it a little. It's gonna be good. What about the car, though? The Greek State has made the operation of the company difficult. The customs clearance of spare parts from abroad was delayed several weeks. The State did not grant a licence for construction within Greece. It did not permit the Greek state - decades ago, it is not history - to build cars. He sent letters to ministers, Prime Ministers, the Dutchman known. You know him from Olympiacos, most people, but I know him from it. Traffic was forbidden. Listen! He had made the Greek state law then forbidden the electric car on the streets. The car didn't get approval from the Treasury Department. What's happening today! Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and Minister. There's a private person in Florina who builds planes. Don't look at me like that, gentlemen! Airplanes are building. It's flying properly! And you know that Greece doesn't grant him a registration permit and takes it from Italy and throws its plane away? From Florinna to fly, she gets permission from Italy! And you will finish the red tape, Minister! He's building a normal plane! There's also the video online, it's also on "AND1" to Mr. Papadakis, it's been on SKAI, your channel. The man has said he's getting permission from Italy. We're building planes! While Greece had initially granted him a temporary leave, it withdrew it. They gave him permission, Minister. You, New Democracy, gave her permission, but you revoked it. I say that, Minister, because we say that we do not produce. It is not that we do not produce, but we do not help those who want to produce, to motivate them to produce. Another example. You know, Minister, what was the head of the Ministry of Transport told then to the late Goulandre? "We cannot equate the gasoline-powered horse with the electric horse." Do you understand which country we're talking about? For your country at the time of your resignation, because then your resignation ruled, Minister. It's good to legislate, but, I don't know, you guys have a love with bills. Every week, bring in a bill. Multi-corruption! Let's go to 2019, Ioannis Kalligeros, President and Managing Director of ‘MERCEDES BENZ’. He says: "To come to Greece, he wants ports that operate, an adequate banking system, a justice system." And I ask you: One year do you rule, what do you change? The Director of Mercedes has said that. What have you changed? I'll tell you what. You brought fifteen tax bills, fifteen other bills, forty-five bills and none of them changed. How will anyone come to invest in Greece? I'm going to tell you another example that I imagine most of you know. Evangelos Annivas. You know, I want you to listen to me, because the Minister with the drones heard me and the government - and I will say 'bravo' to the government - to make a plan for drones in Greece at last, with the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. I told the Minister, he ran and found the students and the teachers and make design for the drones of the future. So I tell you the man's name: Evangelos Annivas. In 2017-2018 he designed a prototype, invisible and invisible Stealth, "war hannibal" is called, with great advantages and hidden weapons. It has hidden torpedo positions that could sink wells. He presented it to a Port Committee and a commission of the Hellenic Navy. Do you know what the committee's answer has been to him? That they don't take it because it's not German or foreign. This is Greece, gentlemen! They prefer to take submarines from the Germans, freshmen from the French - who you rejected them too - and from the Americans. You prefer not to produce as a country, not to produce our country! And how does our country not produce? Listen, my Minister, to understand. How come you hit the Greek businessman? I'm telling you, as an entrepreneur, and I want you to understand it. I speak not as a politician but as an entrepreneur. What about Greek productions? Germany is pressing for us not, therefore, to produce whatever government, because Germany is pressing for its Minister for Electricity to bring legislation today, but without a plan for Greece to produce electric cars. What's that logic? Tell me what sense that is! Prohibition of bank borrowing. The biggest crime you have committed to businesses - I say this directly - is that it is in an indirect way for bank lending to be developed. I'm afraid so. Let a Greek businessman go get a loan from a Greek bank! The 'FRAPORT', however, took place. Latsis, however, took hundreds of millions of euros. The Greek small and medium-sized one wants fifteen thousand papers and seventy-five thousand attestations. That way, we'll never get any growth. You've changed legislation and rules. For Latsis, you were stepping up - lax changes in all the rules and legislation to invest. That's not an investment. I've already disagreed. For Greek microinvestments or investments, you do not speed up procedures. Photographic competitions and supplies. Make supplies for DEDEE, IPTOE and all the good kids! Understood! You're making mistakes! The good thing about you - and this is the first time that the Central Right has achieved it - is that you control the media, Minister. Indirectly or directly control them. That's true. Look at all the media. Most journalists "Have Mitsotakis" are curious. "Have Metsotakis and the Government." Long live him, my child, a thousand live, I do not disagree, but with the money of the Greek people saying "so long" the means, I don't like it. To tell him "go" when it is worth it, as I said "go" to the government for the drones, and it deserves to be commended for its choice, which heard us in the Greek Solution and went by the Minister, Mr. Panagiotopoulos, and found the Aristotle and the government implements it. I found out yesterday, and that's good. We'll tell you the good things and the wrong things. Now listen. Vladimir Lenin said - there are no communist comrades here - that there is only feasibility in politics. So the government's purpose is to hear good words from the media and to have a virtual picture of this government, which is the best of all times. So since Kapodistria's time, there's been no good Prime Minister. The only one is the Capodist. The point is, the Capodist was eaten by others, though. The Prime Minister should be careful if he looks so much like him. Let's actually go. Listen. The New Democracy has given 54,000 euros to FACEBOOK in an election campaign. I'm telling you the numbers now. She gave 70,000 euros to her chief. He gave 650,000 euros to 'GOOGLE'. That's how I make the best Prime Minister. I also give EUR 25 to 30 million for the Greek media to melt it down, and I will be the best. If, for example, I put someone, anyone, with such a liquor, would be the "St. Kyriakos" or "Kyriakos the Departure" with so much ivory from the middle. You have to understand at some point that the hammer is good, but, if the journalists turn around, because there are journalists in here, or if the owners turn around, I don't see you well. I'm telling you to know that. And I want to say something very simple. If you have the guts, then, in New Democracy, the Greek Solution because it has heard a lot from Koza Nostra and the sound mafia that has been heard about Matti, it is now tabling a proposal for a committee of inquiry. Let me see how many people will agree with New Democracy after me - a betrayal of Macedonia, which did not sign - you have not signed, gentlemen of the New Democracy, for Macedonia - to draw the natural person responsible, Kotzias, and to tell us who forced him to sign for Macedonia's betrayal. So we are proposing that you tell us what has been said about the involving ministers of the SYRIZA, about the people, the firefighters who were blackmailing each other - blackmailers and Koza Nostras - if any. Listen, there's a story in history. I'll tell you the truth. There's an intervention. Prosecutor's intervention, if he finds a political name, sends it here. Why, then, should our initiative take precedence? For just one reason: why, if elections are held, ladies and gentlemen, everything is dropped! Understood? They're offline because they're with the previous law, gentlemen. So let go of the fairy tales. If you don't want to cover up the story in Matty with the murder - because for me it was criminally negligent people, who have suffered a strange flood - on the Committee of Inquiry on Eye you say 'yes'! Then I'll believe you haven't agreed to it under the table. Why? Let me tell you: the known Matthaiopoulou-- the known one, right? - if I'm not mistaken, you had him in New Democracy for a long time until February 2020. You had him there, Chief of Fire Force. Mr. Tsubala that New Democracy was accusing you still have him if I'm not mistaken. You have him. Not to mention the other one who became a bizarre County Admiral in the Peloponnese. So the involvement with officials of the Greek state exists, because you consider your state property. The power parties make a crime lasting in the Greek state: you consider the officials and the state to be the property of the parties. This is the great problem of the Greek state entity since 1832, that whoever ruled considered all of his officials to be his underhand. If we do not reap officials from the deep party state, then we will have phenomena of Mr Mathaiopoulos and all these blackmailers. Because it reminded me - you know - some godfathers of the night who blackmail each other for the protection of the shop. Yes, because he said, "They'll bury you, they'll make you, they'll open up your things," not to say the words he was saying. And I say it to understand why you're getting trapped. It reminds me Koza Norastra, "Burn the documents, because we'll tear you apart!" Let the former chief of fire say, "Burn the documents, or we'll kick you!" The then chief invokes the fall of a SYRIZA Minister. To see you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who, yesterday, screamed for history - because history is deep, yes! - will you sign the exam, or will you expect the D.A. to call after months, a year, two years from here, there will have been elections, the crime has been dropped and we will be chasing ghosts? Here to see you in New Democracy, how much you really hurt about what happened in Matty! And the worst of all is that you legislated in here for the illegal intercepts. Do you know that the illegal intercept is forbidden and conceived? He was arrested yesterday with an eyebrow, you know? He was arrested by the man who reported that he was blackmailing him. He's been arrested! He was made by the former chief of the fire suit, and he was arrested for blackmail, because the intercept is illegal. You legislated for them. And now how will the crime come about - tell me you, since it's illegal to intercept? Shiloham's swimming pool and that story! And I say this to the neo-democrats, because I believe that these Members who are today are worthy people, are honest people and will understand the crimes that are being committed every day. And we're going to the worst. Tsouvalas: The New Democracy blamed him for election, held him post-election. Matthiopoulos: The New Democracy was electorally asking for its resignation, after which he left him in place until February 2020. And Chrysochoidis, of course, dismayed him when he was taken off and told him what good he was, he made the good mention of Matthaopoulos, of Koza Nostra, who said, "I will break you!" to his existing expert. Hat: He's supposed to let Kythera and Mani burn for indoor cleanup! Can the MPs imagine it here? Because you're accountable to the people! Can you imagine that for clearing accounts between Chief of State and Chief of State, burning an island and clearing accounts, as if it were Don Corleone and El Chapo and Escobar, and not talking? Inquiry committee, gentlemen, to end the story! To close, so as not to waste more time, I repeat it and say it again: I will return a little to Mr Hatzidakis. Great Winston Churchill said: "Policy is the ability to present today what will happen tomorrow and to explain tomorrow why it is not." That's what the New Democracy does all the time, Minister. It's a good bill, it's a good one. The point is - I will tell you to understand - that a wheelless car does not go any further, Minister! If you do not produce the same cars, if you do not have a production line, you will only be an importer, you will import and export currency, Minister, currency that you borrow as a country from the European Central Bank. When you get 10 euros to pay for a car you import, you're 20 euros minus, because 10 euros I borrowed, 10 euros I sent - because you're a bankrupt state - you're 20 euros minus. I say it as a businessman, to understand it, Minister. You really need to give incentives, incentives, really, to make Greece a producer country! Finally, I would like to say about the summit. What happened yesterday? That's why I'm telling you that you control all the means and you're happy, all the means are shaking you, huge success! For the EUR 750 billion you hide the truth: A19 Annex, a member can veto countries. One member, one, only one! This one, anyone who can say 'no, we do not give the money'. So you're under a sect to EUR 750 billion. It's actually worse than the memos. So Germany put on its best, put in front of the Dutch and the 'Austria' - the bad children - and the Dutch and Austrians all the rest, Mrs Merkel unclaved with Mr Mitsotakis and became the good one. The rabbits in Germany, with rabbits in Germany, are moving the European Union, with rabbits, do you understand that? That's what you don't understand. Social policies have been underestimated, the rule of law. The compromises have substantially weakened Merkel and, of course, they have drastically reduced the budget for 2021-2027, ignored decisions by the European Parliament, robbed the Management Committee for the Recovery Fund and, of course, grants of EUR 390 billion, loans of EUR 360 billion. So it's no help, gentlemen. If we wanted solidarity and assistance, it would be EUR 750 billion, EUR 800 billion, all grants. It's loans!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u63	Please conclude, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr President, I would like a little more time. I say, therefore, loans are, interest is and do not start my "quatsavikist" those, the "at a low interest rate". A country that has a recession of 8%, and 2% to be the interest rate, is 10% the difference if you understood. When you have a recession of 8% and you have a 2% interest rate, it's not 2%. The simple arithmetic is, I'm telling you to understand the crimes that are being committed. They also disappeared financial aid of 110 billion euros yesterday and Velopoulos did not say so, said Mr Kyrchos, the New Democracy MEP. Everything I told you is Mr. Kyrsu, gentlemen, not to say anything about me. Your MEP reports it on Twitter today in his own memo. And grants of 20 billion euros, 12 billion euros loans, a total of 33 billion euros. That's what Greece will get. Do you know what damage Greece has suffered in the last six months? Do you understand that? The deficit is about 11 billion euros, it announced yesterday, summer minus 10 to 12 billion euros from tourist revenues, 11 and 12, how much are they doing, gentlemen? You want 22 billion euros, 23 billion euros? We will take 32 billion euros over seven years in depth and have lost within nine, ten months about 22 billion euros, 23 billion euros. They don't come out unless we support the primary sector unless we support the Greek businessman. They'll never come out, understand it, gentlemen of the New Democracy! Of course, as far as lignite is concerned, what happened, Minister? You came here and told us that you would get from the European Union Fund a lot of money for lignites and so forth. Have you heard what happened yesterday? Did your advisers tell you or didn't they tell you? So listen. A fair transition from the lignite summit: EUR 30 billion, Minister, says Kyrchos, from EUR 10 billion to EUR 30 billion. Pull Kyrus' ear! So I read the communication from the Session and it says the same thing. And you're making liberation with a little money to help your German friends win by Germany! Unfortunately, you have managed to stay outside the Regional Development Fund, Minister - I want you to listen to me - but Cyprus has succeeded. The little Cyprus came in and Greece couldn't get in! And otherwise, you think you've won! I'm afraid that from September the party will start - I'll tell you straight away - the party will start from September, unfortunately, a thriller party will be for our country. We want to help you because the Dutch cannot shake our fingers, ladies and gentlemen, from boxes of 2,2 billion euros, Minister, with monkey companies. You know that? Offshore companies in the Netherlands! The worst country in black money is the Netherlands, along with Luxembourg, Ireland and Germany!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u65	All right, Mr President, thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u66	No, Mr President, listen to the Greek people listening to the truth: the Netherlands is therefore earning EUR 2.2 billion annually, ladies and gentlemen, it has mailboxes for companies, a mailbox that puts mail, because they are offshore companies in the Netherlands. The same is happening in Luxembourg and Ireland and we are swinging our fingers. You know that? Germany is the largest washing machine and we are swinging the fingers of Europe's largest ribbons! That's what crushes me and never existed - but never! - one to speak, my child, when the United States carried 44 billion euros in 2017 - where? - through the ports of the Netherlands with a tax of 5%. They're taxed 5% in the Netherlands. In Greece, to bring merchandise, how much is it, ladies and gentlemen? So I'm telling you, that's not how it works. It's not going, it's not going any further. Unfortunately, it doesn't go any further. And stop looking in your mirror and think you've achieved something. Unfortunately, "they shave the groom in the end" and I fear the groom will come out, not shaved. The problem is, the barber will be paid by the Greeks again. You shave, you cut, but the Greek people will pay you with the mistakes you make. Unfortunately, I say this and I grieve to say it. If the government does not quickly make the self-evident, produce wealth, support farmers, farmers, fishermen, small and medium-sized enterprises - not the provision of services, leave the tales 30, forty years of service, provision of service, production of wealth, support for the production of products - you will only have a service and, unfortunately, millions of Greek unemployed. Listen to the Greek Solution, because he wants to help you, whatever government he'd be in. I would say a lot, I would say, to you, who I think have some good appearances in your word and your actions, but, unfortunately, the choices will make you look a few in front of the very big problems of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the legislative work in order to proceed with the request for immunity of Members of Parliament, in accordance with the special agenda. Immediately afterwards we will return to the debate of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Promotion of electromobility'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament Mr Constantine Kyranakis, one case, and Savva Snowides, two cases. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 30 June 2020, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Constantine Kyranakis. Furthermore, the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 8 July 2020 that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Savva Snowides in both cases. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide on an increase in the hand or on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure laid down in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. We recall that in accordance with the decision of 7 March 2018 of the Conference of Presidents, this procedure has triggered the new system of electronic roll-call voting. We are now entering the first case, Mr Cyranakis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I said in committee and in plenary I call for the use of parliamentary immunity not to be used. Without actually entering, I would just like to say that I wish to be judged, like all Greek citizens, and I am glad that I see many colleagues participating in this culture change within the Greek Parliament. We have already had the constitutional change proposed by the New Democracy and we are now sending a message to society that no one is above the law. Without wishing to bore my fellow Members, I call on all Members from all the parties to vote in favour of my waiver of immunity. I wish to be judged properly, like all Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u70	Mr Cyanakis had also asked for the waiver of immunity in our committee. Mr. Savvas Snowides has the floor for both cases at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that I, too, asked the committee, and I ask that my immunity be waived in cases concerning the municipality of Katerini, to which I have had the honour of leading as mayor. Of course, I would like to focus on this point by saying that this is a great opportunity, both in these cases, the Ministry of the Interior and all of us in Parliament, to see to it that we rise where the constituents should be. It's a major issue when there's a structure of power. Because we all believe in self-government, it is a pity that it is a matter of technical services, the competent anti-majorities, the city's general secretaries, when there is no footprint, that there is a hood, which is called "subject of duty". These things are empirically unacceptable to our democracy and we believe that a decision must be taken immediately by Parliament, at the initiative and credit of the Ministry of Interior, in order to shield the constituents' status. This is the major for me and I am clearly asking for my immunity to be waived. I would like to stress that in the first case, I have received control of the Disciplinary Board. I should like to say here that he was the President of Thessaloniki's Appeals, two sevens, a representative of the Greek State of the Ministry of the Interior and one of the secondary trade union. Three packs, therefore, considered that there is no question. From there on I have to be judged, and I want to be judged, because that is what democracy and the current legal framework are imposed by the Protodiki Katerini. We see, then, a series of former colleagues suffering, we see people dragged to court waiting in line with anyone who has committed a crime. And that's another matter, which needs to be seen by the Ministry of Justice, there's a special procedure, not something special from the natural judge with all the consequences one has to have, but not all day a mayor in court, and the previous case is why he stabbed the superb, the second case because he stole. This definiteness is spreading throughout the political system, and that is something that urgently needs to be changed. Since a citizen decided that a lacquer can gather water and may go the Nile’s mosquitoes, he sends a complaint and the public administration auditors are sending to ask for written explanations. I'm saying that because I went through this, I was mayor. We just have to do it. In the Greek Parliament and in the Ministries of Home Affairs and Justice, the logic finally prevails. It would be incomprehensible because there was a mistake in the construction of the national network to criminalise the Minister of Infrastructure when they exist under the services. These things I believe are our duty, because this government also believes and has shown them, but we believe that self-government is a major factor in synergy with the central government so that we can move forward. So I once again ask for my immunity to be lifted on both issues. On the second point, to which I am referring, the prosecutor has already suggested that the case should be filed for a long time. So every time someone gets up and doesn't have what to do, he wants to avenge someone in local government, he can file a lawsuit. Especially when they have old people doing this, you can't do that after your right to commit a false conviction. What to do to an elderly woman eighty-five years old, who we know who submitted or forced her to file these monthly reports? So on this occasion I wanted to address this major issue. If we want self-government, since we believe in self-government, let us shield its institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u72	Indeed, Mr Snowides and he asked for his immunity to be waived in both cases. Before we proceed to the electronic vote, pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, any colleague may request the floor. Is there any colleague requesting the floor pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. The second request, for Mr Snowidis, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There is also no colleague. We would like to point out that the vote includes three different cases of the removal of immunity from Members, one from Mr Kyranakis and two from Mr Snowidis. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u73	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed. [[ELECTRONIC REMUNERATION]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] Ladies and gentlemen, while we are waiting for the results of the vote on waivers of immunity, I have the honour of announcing to the House the update of Friday 24 July 2020. A. REFERENCES First Cycle (Rule 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 933/14-7-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Larissa Movement of Change, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The potential subjugation of Larisa BC/KEE Larissa makes the championship absolutely inappropriate." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 943/20-7-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Application of measures to housing some four hundred Roma in Aspropyrgos after demolition of their accommodation. Take emergency measures to protect health’. 3. The question under number 947/20-7-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on "The officials of the municipalities of the country again hostage to the political games of the government". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 944/20-7-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Removal of a teaching service from an educational school due to threatened pregnancy". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 950/20-7-2020 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "With state money, without state control, mining in Greece". 3. The question by number 946/20-7-2020 of the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct payment of the gains received by the workers of the Private Educational Schools "New Yenia Ziridis" and the safeguarding of their rights". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Charitou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "The founding and functioning of new departments at the Democritus University of Thrace".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. On the first case, Mr Constantine Kyranakis voted for 119 Members. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 115 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 4 Members voted. No one voted 'APPROVAL'. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the second case, Mr Savva Snowides, a total of 116 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 112 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 4 Members voted. No one voted 'APPROVAL'. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the third case, Mr Savva Snowides, a total of 115 Members voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 111 Members voted. On the question of immunity, i.e. 'Notice', 4 Members voted. No one voted 'APPROVAL'. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. The results of the roll-call vote are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming back to the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Promoting electricity mobility'. I want to inform the House that we have come out of time. There are forty-one colleagues who have been registered to speak and the parliamentary representatives have not spoken. With the approval of this House, I would ask every speaker not to exhaust six minutes. If there's anything special about a speech, we'll allow it. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u76	The House agreed. Mrs Anna Karamanlis, the first speaker from New Democracy, is called in Stepma. Mrs Karamanlis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law for the first time forms a single systematic and integrated regulatory framework for the electricity market for the first time, with a view to moving to the mobility of low pollutants. The adoption of measures to gradually decompensate from fossil resources and replace them with forms of clean energy such as renewable energy, broadly expanding the use of low or zero-emission vehicles, developing environmentally-friendly production activities, analogous to climate change, are key points of our government environmental policy. The transport sector is the main source of air pollution, accounting for 30% of final energy consumption and 28% of greenhouse emissions, with the most severe problems being identified in the densely populated areas, due to increased traffic and the large population. A recent study by the World Health Organization estimates, in half a million worldwide, deaths attributed to air pollution annually, while in our country it is estimated that eight and a half thousand people are losing their lives every year from causes related to air pollution. Air pollution is also caused by the use of conventional, ageing cars of outdated anti-pollution technology. In Greece, the majority of the vehicle fleet are conventional cars, aged, mainly gasoline, while low-pollution vehicles, such as electricity or gas-driven vehicles, do not exceed 0.3% of the fleet. The environmental burden is reflected as clearly as possible in the finding that emissions from the transport sector in Greece increased by 6%, with any consequences for the environment, air quality, health and well-being of the population. On the other hand, electricitymobilisation contributes to reducing air pollution and local noise pollution, more efficient use of energy and has macroeconomic benefits, as the growth of the electricity market in Greece will create significant opportunities for investment, strengthen the economy of local communities and create new jobs. Electricitymobilisation contributes significantly to the deconcentration of fossil fuels, improved air quality and, at the same time, enhances the country's efforts to achieve Union targets for reducing the environmental impact of transport, including greenhouse gas emissions. The main aims of the bill are to provide incentives to purchase electric IX, two cycles and bicycles, which reach 15% of the value of the car, 20% of the value of the two cycle and 40% of the value of the bicycle. You are accusing us of allegedly classic of the bill, that it is allegedly addressed to a few privileged and strong purse. However, incentives aim primarily at making electric vehicles, scooters, bicycles accessible to many, with a premium from the first euro. The aim is in 2030 that the percentage of electric vehicles reach the Greek market 30% of the vehicle fleet and, respectively, that the pollutants be reduced. How will this objective be achieved if the electric vehicles are not made accessible to everyone? The government chooses to give 100m euros to the electricity market. But with this draft law, we are not just giving money. We are creating the conditions for the development of a new economy, which will create economic benefits and jobs, through the development of private investments relating to the creation and operation of a charging infrastructure network, the provision of related services and the production of electrical power supply chain goods. If one takes into account the benefit of reducing costs directly linked to public health and pollution, one can easily see that no money is wasted unnecessarily and without targeting. The development of the electricity market and the competition that will be developed will also regulate prices downwards and make the market of an electric vehicle more accessible. Today there is a rapid drop in battery prices, possibly electric vehicle chargers. Within a narrow financial framework, the subsidy is essential, lowers the price and, together with the lowest maintenance costs of an electric vehicle, enables more than one electric vehicle and the creation of an integrated charging infrastructure network to achieve maximum geographical and population coverage so that electric vehicles can go everywhere, serve travel needs throughout the country and do not fall short of old, polluting and conventional vehicles. So the first question that comes to your mind, when you're ready to buy an electric car, is where you charge it, how you serve fuel need. Importers IX are committed to a thousand two hundred loading points by 2021, and municipalities will also take initiatives to place public accessible chargers. As far as buildings are concerned, there is a requirement to install charging infrastructures for new buildings, and for the old, a model similar to the one followed for the installation of a gas boiler in the building, which does not require the consent of all owners. A comprehensive framework is also provided for the functioning of the electricity market, instead of the fragmentary arrangements that existed so far, with a clear role for the TEN and the rest of the operators. The electricity market is a completely new market and operators active in it are required to fulfil certain obligations for consumer protection, infrastructure safety and transparency of its operation. It is therefore imperative that an integrated regulatory framework for this new market should be established, with the State playing a supervisory role and that need is covered by the draft law. It is a central pillar of government policy to abandon polluting fuels and to move to green transport, a transition that will have clear benefits in improving the quality of life of the citizen and in protecting public health, as well as the conversion of the country's inhabited areas into sustainable mobility, more human beings, more functional, enhanced with alternative transport infrastructures and, ultimately, with continuously reduced environmental impact and pollution. This contributes to the draft law, which concerns the State, the government, the market and civil society. As our Prime Minister said, Greece has the potential, with the driving force of sun and air, to become a 'battery' in Southeast Europe, a 'battery' of clean and alternative energy that does not affect the environment, strengthens sustainable development and contributes positively to the future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u78	Mr Mamulakis had the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law is a step towards enlarging electricity mobility in our country, a step towards improving the micro-climate in Greek cities and, in circumstances, a step towards reducing carbon dioxide emissions, essentially improving the environmental footprint. That is how we welcome it. Unfortunately, however, it is a small step which, if it had been made by SYRIZA, would have substantial differences, some of which I will try to mention and analyse further then my speech. The project of the transformation of the fleet of vehicles into our country is objectively a titanium project. All effort to transform it would be started by a starting point. That's what today's law does. It recognises four basic social and economic subjects as the pioneers of this transformation: firstly, the companies leasing, secondly, taxis, thirdly, the corporate fleets and, finally, the islands. From there, the current legislature tells us that he wants transformation to begin. On this list, however, there are two important specific subjects missing. First, the fleets of public bodies, passenger transport companies, police, firefighting, hospitals and so on. In addition, other colleagues have mentioned it during the meetings of the committees and it is pointless to play the courgette on whether it is the SYRIZA's fault to cancel the competition that has been opened on our day by the Procedural Appeals Authority. That's where the law wants backup and could really be more courageous. The International Energy Agency today clearly indicates public procurement for vehicles as a key tool for the expansion of both electricity mobility and charging infrastructures. Secondly, where you could be more courageous, they are in the fleets of our small and medium-sized enterprises. I would remind the Minister of the contents of the World Bank study on logistics, which was drawn up on his own term of office in the Ministry of Development. This study, Minister, identified that most of the unexploited capacity of the Greek fleet are cars mainly owned by small and medium-sized enterprises. These vehicles, and the study itself, recognized that they were doing their greatest work within the urban centres, and that is why they also made proposals for the extension of the green logistics and so on. I say all this because I feel, by the nature and the nature of the tax incentives that today, the current law, that the backbone of public transport in our country will not be able to benefit from today's provisions, and this will drastically reduce its environmental benefits. The third question is the planning of the expansion of charging infrastructures. This draft law at its core has the idea that municipalities will be forced to draw up a Electric Vehicle Loading Plan, the SWEO, and then publish - that is an issue - the creation and exploitation of them by private sector operators. This design, however, gives no incentive to local authorities - mainly grade I - and that is the core of the problem. There is no return fee, no additional revenue and no benefit to the municipalities. The only incentive is to absorb resources that would normally be directed for Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, known SBAKs, which have been struggling for years with obstacles to mature and potentially perform. Allow me here, Minister, to point out to you - and as a former self-government - certain issues relating to OTAs and their potential capacity to incorporate - that they are commonly entangled - that the obligation which today's law is being put forward and whether or not it is practical to apply in front of us, i.e. how practically practicable. I feel that the municipalities will find it very difficult to draw up even the competitions, given their central dehydration. After so many years of memorialism, as you can imagine, the vast majority of municipalities - except for some metropolitans - do not even have the capacity to draw up these competitions, much more so in the preparation of implementation studies, to develop the competition and, of course, to come to completion. So that is what I think is a very important issue. So, in fact, with the sole requirement, we think it is impossible to implement this law. Finally, Minister, let me also point out a failure of today's law, which may at first sight seem a secondary issue, but, in my view, it is capable of alleviating the electromobility project in our country in the air. Article 12 describes the architecture of the new market, the entities powered by the charging of vehicles, FOSEVO, the operators managing the charging infrastructure, the LNG, the providers of the power-driven services, and so on. Among all these subjects of this new market are operators of transactions, namely operators, responsible for managing the requirements of all companies in the emerging electricity market. If we could also do some parallelism, a ratio, with the related market in renewable energy, basically the operators will be for the electricity distribution of what the APRC is for renewable energy. And I will make a comment: For some incomprehensible reason, the legislator today describes trade management bodies as part of the free market in the industry. I would point out that this is not provided for in the relevant European directive. I think it's a Greek patent. Good practice, of course, would be to create a single transaction management body, under public control, which would create the necessary market confidence and the necessary network security, so that it can handle all the necessary netting and, at the same time, map the market, just as the RAG does today for renewable energy. Otherwise - which is probably the most likely - the market will soon be marked by eternal actions by all the participants, so that we do not rule out fraud, as has also been done, during the first steps in the liberalisation of the electricity market - known cases, of ENERGA and others - in our country. For this reason, I would urge you immediately to revise these regulations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u80	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u81	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the major issue that today's law opens is the challenge of seeing the switch towards electricity as a moment to the 'green' transformation of the Greek economy. This transformation will not be socially neutral. He'll have won and lost. And it is the task of the political system to limit the new forms of social exclusion and the new social inequalities that this transformation will produce. The turn in the electrical movement can and must include all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u82	Mrs Anastasia-Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we will all agree in this House that the issue we are discussing with this bill is extremely important. The Minister spoke to us, of course, about the promotion of electricity and about the transition to green movements, but you will allow me to make a few comments. Of course, we as a Greek Solution and through our speaker, Mr. Villardou, had a specific position, stressing that, as the bill came, it is insignificant to regulate the majority of the Greeks, as well as that there should be provision, not only for reducing the space but also for buying the electric car. Because, as many times as you have heard the Greek Solution - you of the Government - our society has benefited, let me make a few remarks, which - I think - are useful. In Article 11, which speaks of tax depreciation, should we not take into account the special circumstances which have arisen recently with the koruna pandemic? Let's say, companies that provide logistics services, local transport services and make up to a hundred kilometres a day routes - especially in Attica - for the distribution of products to their customers, etc., now with the crisis of COVID -19 and the fall of cigarettes, even those who wanted to buy electrical vehicles will postpone it. Therefore, strong incentives need to be introduced to do so and to save the environment, but not semimetres. On what we're saying, I'm going to say something you may not think about, that in order for electricity to be introduced in our country, people should learn and trust electric vehicles, so-called market psychology. Change will be great, so you must see how this will be passed on to the citizens, because - let me tell you this - so far few of our fellow citizens have understood the value of electricity. Most people don't know, so they won't trust electricity, let's not be fooled. You will also allow me here to make a reference to a group of our people who are forgotten by many, in disabled people or as I call them people with special abilities. The question of the promotion of electromobility concerns these people directly. And because some want these people's voices to be little heard, I will become their voice. Of course there is Article 20, which refers to the placement of parking spaces of electric vehicles for HEIs. It is also planned that the positions for small and mediumsized enterprises should be of the order of 2%. I ask on Article 20: Is that all that is enough? Should people not be motivated by disabilities to buy a motor vehicle and a general vehicle? This has not been clarified by the government. I fear that all this concern - supposedly - of the LEADER bill is only fruitful hope. You know, there are also electric vehicles for MEDA, small vehicles, scooters that are truly facilitating these people and acting like a life-span for them. Should the state not, at some point, anticipate the promotion of electric motors? Where are the points of reloading these vehicles? Also, you're not telling us anything about production in Greece. So are we making the bill for the importation of German cars or from other countries? I am telling you this because we are shouting - and rightly so - about the need. There are sufficient reloading points for electric cars, but no one said a word about the need for electric car for people with disabilities. Of course, since we're talking about electricity, shouldn't we build some time and electric parking ramps? Where will these people put their cars in conditions hostile in the cities and not just? I was pleased to hear - I dare say - that the beaches of Chania created electric ramps for MEDA. We should look at this seriously, because it is a step in the right direction. By the way, since we're talking about MEDIs, shouldn't we once as a state do the self-evident thing? In other words, to create a national register for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will have double utility, it will work at the same time as a list of priority ones. With regard to special treatment in terms of state, such as treatments, sessions and so many others will simply be based on this innovative register. That is why I appeal to all representatives of the Greek people who listen to me, and represent not only the healthy but also the weakest to create a register that includes those persons who are certified, in transparent and scientific procedures, are truly HEIs, as well as let us score in great detail and therefore classify their needs and priorities with the existing methods that are scientifically acceptable...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u84	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. ..there is a unique place for every LEADER to understand in this year's journal. Finally, let us put every means of exerting pressure on the political leadership of the place so that the state budget can shape the relevant spending policy for SMUs on the basis of the pillars and guidelines of the SMUs register. These can and must be done. It will be a bright example in Europe and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u86	The next speaker is Mr Vlachos George, who chairs a committee. I would ask that it be kept six minutes, because it is, as I have said, very many speakers, that it is forty-one and that no one in Parliament has spoken, that the Minister has not spoken, that the Undersecretaries have not spoken, and that will be at the expense of colleagues who have been on the list of speakers lately. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for having the Committee on Production and Trade, but we wanted to say a few things about this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with an amendment that I tabled, with a general number of 399 and a special 26. This relates to the extension of the appeal on the basis of certain decisions of the Court of Appeal of Athens and the Court of Appeal of Nafplio. Don't scare me, I'm talking about decisions of 1868, 1876 and 1878, that tyrant the lives of the inhabitants of the Municipalities of Saronic and Laurent and possibly some other parts of Greece with similar decisions. Of course, the solution will definitely be given by the Treasury. It has not been possible to bring regulation with a bill because of the coronary, so, Minister, I would like - without going into the substance of the matter - to ask you, in fact, to accept this extension. I personally commit that I will not ask for an extension. I believe that by 30 September, which we agreed, the Ministry of Finance is finally obliged to bring a solution to the issue, which we have promised. And it's not a promise like the one SYRIZA had given us over his government. Because then we were invited to celebrate that they will be regulated. The arrangement never came. The loose end is still. Citizens are afflicted, forced today against thousands of courts, to pay lawyers, and, of course, to be vindicated. Because everyone is entitled, but suffering and costs are real. That is why I would like to ask you, knowing that it creates a problem in the register, to accept it, to extend it, and I believe that this time the Treasury will be able to bring the regulation. Why are these decisions? They've been proclaiming by concise procedures that it's a forest. And then they preached it, because there was a feasibility. In order not to get a Serpieri in the areas - you know, they were the former quarry - they were called "forestry", but since then these areas have changed use. Saronidas is built with a town plan and they come today and claim the homes of the people. So, what are they looking for? Prove they're theirs! You understand why we insist, Minister, that you accept this extension in order to raise the issue, restore calmly, until the Treasury comes - and I believe it will come to the deadlines that I have said - and give the final solution. I'm coming to the bill now. The bill, in fact, is another initiative by the Ministry and the Minister, in its overall effort to support the environment. After the environmental bill, today we have a new bill on electricity. Actually, what's this bill doing? He's putting the electrokinesis in our lives. Simple as that! I am listening to the committee, and I hear some colleagues here today looking to find a thousand million questions, problems, difficulties, disasters that will occur, which the Minister has not solved. But it's the first step to put electricity into our lives today. It's a green bill. Whether you like it or don't like it, that's reality. It's an ecological way of moving. There's been an attempt, like I said, perversion. I'll tell you what. It gives incentives to import electric cars, scooters, bicycles. And there is a brave rate of subsidy for all these incentives. A hundred million were given. We are sorry again: 'And a hundred are very few'. But, let's start moving on. I think it's enough, but if there's more to it, there's probably more to it. We didn't say all the problems were solved with this bill. The first step is taken. And, basically, this bill - to understand the people who are watching us and who are trustworthy - brings the following: it gives incentives to import electric cars with a 15%, for scooters of 20%, for electric bicycles of 40%. It regulates the matter of chargers. It provides for a whole market framework with the DATA, the importing companies and provides for everything. The public takes responsibility for 25% of new vehicles now to be electrical. It introduces development incentives for production in Greece of chargers, batteries, and even electric cars, which is an innovation. There's an opportunity to do all this. So, against this positive approach to the bill, we have the miserable criticism of counter-population, which does not know whether it agrees, does not know if it disagrees. He says, "We had some of them broken up." The ESRB submitted by SYRIZA predicted 10% of electric vehicles by 2030. Good! And then what? He predicted it as a wish. Did he take measures? Did he bring anything? Did she vote for something? Did he set something up? Is that something we're changing? So he said it is. And because he said so? Is that how it would have happened? He says he brought the ministerial decision in May 2019, which defined the terms and conditions. Good! And then what? So what happened? What terms and conditions? Preconditions for what? And why didn't it take a step? Today everyone agrees we're starting at zero. That's the reality. We are told: 'It was in our programme', we answer them, 'but you did not reduce tolls for electric cars'. It's what I was saying. It sounded like a while ago. "But you haven't predicted," he says, "Electric car ramps". They forget what I said from the beginning and we all repeat, that it is the first step to get electricity into our lives and that is how we all have to accept it well. And they go ahead and say: 'The second-hand club disagrees'. Do you adopt what the used club says? And if you adopt them, how do you come at the same time and say about the problem of air pollution? Who are you with? You cannot, in any case, be with everyone and make promises to everyone, because you have ruled and now have a government practice that will accompany you. You can't share vague promises to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u88	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u89	I shall conclude, Mr President. And you're telling the end of the plan's classivity. What exactly do you mean? That the Ministry has to share free electric cars? It pays 15%, 20% and 40%, I said earlier. Are you suggesting anything else exactly? Everything new is obviously a little more expensive. That's what happened, if you remember, with the phones. That's how it's done with all the innovations. Slowly, as long as their consumption increases, it is evident that prices will also be elected. But to get into our lives, we have to take the first step and that's what we're doing. I would like to close with something, Mr President, which I do not know exactly what the SYRIZA rapporteur meant. He said by closing down: "Good intentions. It is a principle of introducing electromobility with what that means." That's the only thing I'd like to agree with from what SYRIZA said about this bill. And to keep this positive mark in the hope that SYRIZA and his rapporteur meant it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u91	The Minister wants to make some legislative improvements. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u92	I do not want to make any legislative improvements, Mr President. I would like to make a comment on what Mr Vlachos said about the amendment tabled in relation to Saronida. In Saronidas, as in many cases with the forest maps - I referred yesterday to this issue - we again have an absurdity of the Greek public. There are contracts since the 19th century, there are houses, there are building, there are people who have bought houses in the past decades, who have inherited, who inherited their children and their grandchildren, and the Greek state comes and tells them "the house that you have been staying for so many years, that you have bought, it is not yours, it is ours". This has to be over. The Greek State must be serious. To say this very simply, it must be serious, ladies and gentlemen. We must protect the forests, hunt the arbitrary, be serious in relation to town planning, but it cannot, while - correctly - we have been chasing the disgrace of arbitrariness, at the same time the Greek State will make another disgrace, the awkwardness of taking or rather claiming legal property of our fellow citizens for decades. That's absurd. As an insanity I'm dealing with it. I am sure that the Treasury will finally give the solution and that is why I intend to accept this amendment to which Mr Vlacho referred. I hope, however, that this will really end, because the progress of the register in this area is being hampered precisely because of this lack of transparency. We all know very well that the Greek state, with any government, will not go out and take out a man who took a house in 1890 or who inherited it from his father. He won't get him out. We all know that, without exception, party membership. Well, as we know, let common sense prevail, which seems to be not so common in Greek bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Brysidou's speech has been made from New Democracy for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 168-184]] Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to extend the use of electric cars, to organise infrastructures for charging, and to regulate the framework on which the markets in electric cars are to take place. We are talking about electric cars, car chargers, infrastructures where cars can be charged as well as hybrid cars. So why is it important and useful to extend the market for these cars and enter consumption and use? First of all, why are they protecting the environment? We all know that atmospheric pollution results in many of our fellow humans being sick and thousands of people losing their lives worldwide. Therefore, care must also be taken in this area, namely the use of environmentally polluting cars. They are at a significant rate of pollution and we must go to cars which have zero pollutants or minimums. They also emit a minimum percentage of carbon dioxide, a determining factor for the very harmful greenhouse effect - for which there is concern and a change in the nature of areas of the whole - in order to protect themselves and not to have this negative effect. On the other hand, it is economical for the consumer, which needs about a hundred kilometres, about 2.7 euros, while for conventional cars it takes about 9 euros. Also, this possibility given by electric cars is not to depend on imported fuels and to have an autonomous and another security for the country. But how can we proceed to this very positive proposal? First of all, there are rules, measures, incentives. A counter-incentive is the fine imposed on imported used cars, which according to their category and level of pollution, there is a fine of EUR 3 000 and EUR 1,000, respectively the category. There must also be positive incentives to encourage citizens to choose them, and these are, first of all, tax reliefs, which concern entrepreneurs who choose and reduce them, both to themselves and to staff who will use these cars. Entrepreneurs who will choose to build companies - mechanisms for charging cars, also have tax reliefs. And from the income they receive from these enterprises, they will have a 50% exemption when they are in the solid part of our country and 70%, when they are in the islands. And when it is fed from renewable energy sources, then the exemption is 70% and 90% respectively. These are important moves and interventions and give incentives to be able to move forward in this direction. Also, in companies that will undertake to build either spare parts or electric cars, we also have a 5% tax reduction on each scale for five years. Economic incentives are an important reason to go ahead, but there are much more important reasons why we need to take this big step and I am going to refer to Article 4 of the respective bill, which refers to the ability of investors to build companies for the construction of electric cars and spare parts in the areas of western Macedonia, the Kozani Prefecture from where I come and the Peloponnese, as a compensation for an area that chooses to protect the environment, and gives them a priority in all the procedures for approval. I would like to say here that all these are important not only as facts, but also because they mark the great importance of its early decision to take measures. The economic crisis, the protection of the environment, are funds which must now be studied and taken into account. If we ignore them and spend critical time, then things can't change and we can't go back. And I am referring to our region, in the Kozani and Florina Prefectures, where the fine of pollutants for years has burdened the Public Power Corporation, has burdened the operation of the area, and it has also not enabled the plants to operate, so that it can proceed to a defoliation, sliding in that direction. Of course, our Prime Minister, within this deadlock, has taken the bold step and the disadvantage, saying that we are not sliding and paying fines for this operation, but we are choosing to protect our region and the environment by choosing other forms of energy production, renewable sources, so that it is sustainable for the Public Power Corporation to protect the environment, and at the same time to use the funds that Europe must give us as part of our compliance and our right behaviour as a modern European state to take the next step. One step that we can take, positively, for the local society and for the whole of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, and the Members of his party, have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry to investigate the criminal responsibilities of the competent officials - politicians and not - through acts or omissions that led to the tragedy in Matti, any involvement of members of the then government in an effort to cover or hide responsibility, as well as in the situation in the Firehouse, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144-148 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. This proposal will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, printed and distributed to the Members of Parliament, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. The above proposal is recorded in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u97	The next speaker is Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I too would like to welcome the formal and unanimous recommendation of the Intergroup on the Development of Thrace. The establishment of its recommendation has caused great enthusiasm to the citizens of Evros, a prefecture that needs support, but also incentives. So, speaking of incentives and of a more general change in our country's production model, in a way that is sustainable and environmentally friendly, this draft law to promote the electromobility presented by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is such an example. So, given that Greece and due to the ten-year economic crisis has the oldest and most polluting private vehicle fleet in Europe, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy in this draft law has established a series of bold and innovative provisions, which have as their main aim the increase in the use of electric vehicles, the increase also further development of the charging network for electric vehicles and, ultimately, the creation of a new and modern regulatory framework for the operation of the electricity market, i.e. the charging points and services associated with them. In view of this, therefore, the Government is directly subsidising the purchase of electronic vehicles in order to make them more accessible. At the same time, a number of additional incentives are introduced, such as free parking from 1-1-2021 and for two years for holders of electric vehicles, the granting of an increased deduction from taxable income for the purchase or hire of electric and hybrid vehicles, the non-incorporation of the costs of the use of a corporate electric vehicle and the charging of the taxable income, as well as the exclusion of the cost of purchasing a purely electric passenger vehicle from the annual objective expenditure for the value of a vehicle, up to EUR 50,000. Furthermore, in order to protect public health and maintain the fleet of vehicles already on the market at tolerated environmental levels, the import of old polluting second-hand vehicles is prohibited and an environmental charge is imposed on imported vehicles of a decade to 15-year period, which will be channelled to environmental actions. As regards the part of the organisation of the charging infrastructures for electric vehicles, the Ministry of the Environment is fully regulating the market framework, emphasising the safe operation of the charging infrastructure and ensuring conditions of competition between the investors concerned for the provision of electricity services. At the same time, the TAs shall be actively involved in the part of the organisation of competitions for the selection of providers, as well as in the indication of the points on which charging stations will be installed. In addition, the draft law establishes a framework and simplifys the procedures for the installation of charging points in new and existing buildings, private and public, based on the use of buildings and the number of parking places. A key point to promote electricity mobility is the provision of generous incentives to taxi drivers to replace their polluting vehicles with new more environmentally friendly, as the modernisation of the fleet of public sector vehicles by obtaining purely electric vehicles or low-polluting hybrid vehicles. On this point, therefore, I would like to make a special reference to the regulation of the bill to provide special development and tax incentives for the production of chargers, batteries, and even electric cars in the lignite areas of our country. This is how the government is seeking to move towards a change in the country's productive model, which is now geared towards boosting processing and industry, so that, with the focus of these two regions, we can attract high-tech investment and at the same time gradually make the whole country a pole of innovation and development. Ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic caused by the outbreak of COVID -19 and its dramatic side effects on both health and the economic part have demonstrated in the most prosperous way the need to create a new economic model of sustainable development, which will effectively protect both the environment and the economic well-being of the citizens. So this difficult equation gives an answer to the current draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. By taking the strand of the effort made by the previous government of New Democracy, with its colleague and then State Secretary Michalis Papadopoulos, special incentives are being introduced to promote electricity mobility, thus actively protecting the environment, the quality of life and the health of our citizens, as well as the economic prospects of our country. For this reason, and personally, I am voting in favour of this bill, calling on the House to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr Dermenjopoulou, and especially for the time being, which is for the benefit of the next speakers. Mrs. Zoe Makri has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, with the flagrant and innovative promotional initiative of the New Democracy Government, which is also a central environmental pillar of its policy, electricity mobilisation from where it was in the relapse of 0.33% on the overall market by August 2019, has risen speed and we hope that a growing market share will increase. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis stressed in the symbolic "Environment Day", on June 5, 2020, Greece enters the horizon of the future through the adoption and implementation of electricity mobilisation, inaugurating the next day in green transport, effectively aspiring the gradual decommissioning of mineral resources as well as the transition to new ecological reality, low-emission mobility with a holistic and coherent plan. The revolution of electric cars has just begun worldwide and even though it is still early to talk about hybrid cars or a rechargeable battery car in the garage of the house, the provision of experts is more than optimistic. The future of automobile is electricity, and it even comes very sharply. Many arguments about this development are more fundamental and stronger, in my view, the benefits for the environment, since the transport sector represents 14% internationally of the greenhouse gas emissions. The increase in the traffic of electric motors in conjunction with the greater use of renewable energy sources will lead to a drastic reduction in air pollution. Already, countries with a great tradition in the world automobile industry, such as Britain and France, are planning the abolition of all petrol and oil cars by 2040, and others are expected to follow. The future is here. But, as always, there are proponents and sceptics and this is happening in every technological revolution. I believe, however, that in this case there are so many positive aspects of this new eco-mobility model, that every attempt to distort the content and reduce the value of this legislative initiative is - as the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, rightly pointed out - to the work of the relevant Committee on Production and Trade. With innovative regulations to reduce air pollution, incentives for the import of electric cars, scooters and bicycles, tax incentives for their purchase, more specific arrangements for strengthening specific areas particularly affected by liberation, care for the Greek average, provision for the development of infrastructures, especially of the network of chargers, to which the municipalities will also be invited to contribute, but also to monitor and control by the state of implementation of these movements and not only, as the public is obliged to have in its fleet 25% of electric cars, Greece now places itself in the lead of European initiatives. This is a pleasant surprise and a trigger for change, since according to the European Auto Manufacturers' Association, the country has one of the most old, middle-aged fleets, with an average age of thirteen and a half years, when in the rest of Europe it is 10.7. The same displeasure is our low ranking on many of the environmental burden lists, as it is responsible for increasing the emissions of our older fleet by 6% in the period 2013-2016. The assessment of electricity technology specialists is both scanning and enthusiastic. It will spread in the form of an avalanche, while characteristic is its parallelity with the appearance of computers two decades ago, which not only flooded the world market but within very little time is now an integral part of our everyday life. For your initiative, Minister, the right and necessary, in addition to the ecological sensitivity that was previously, if not the only, certainly the main argument, there are now serious rational arguments. As you say and see in the explanatory statement, it is also a rational argument to create a single and integrated framework on the electricity market in order to increase the fleet and infiltrate purely electric vehicles and electric hybrids with low emission external charging. Nearly anything happened in the past about electrokinesis. An issue that is at the forefront of the environmental debate has been deceived by politicians. Like the Minister himself, Mr. Hatzidakis, stressed features, while lifting up the flag of ecology, they are in favour of extending the life expectancy of lignite plants and compiling with all those against the RES, seeking audience. On this point, however, Minister, I would like to inform you of objections, which I am sure you and your partners are aware of, such as the environmental fees of EUR 3 000 in Euro4 cars and EUR 1 000 in Euro5A, which are imposed on environmental reasons and to stop distortion of competition. As you know, about 70% of farmers and professionals are working on Euro4 cars, while Euro5A is the majority of the fleet, as they are middle-sized cars and this particular market sector is very likely to be affected. Without wanting to weaken what I have already advocated for the correctness of your initiative, I would ask you to consider, if and since it does not cancel the reasons why we legislate, the request for intervention on your part to ensure that there is uniform treatment for the owners of these cars, that professionals are not destroyed, perhaps the entire industry, as they fear will be. Finally, in the major opposition that said that electricity is not reinforced by communication tools and clipping legislation, I would say that it is absolutely right. It is precisely because this legislative initiative meets the specific specifications that opposition puts and is based on our broad knowledge of information, because ignorance no longer confuses us, in the previous public debate and in the obvious need to protect public health, it must be supported, voted in favour and implemented, Minister, because it is no longer a matter of politics or just a matter of politics. It is a matter of survival because of climate change, which requires the implementation of a sustainable economic ecological solution as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u101	Mr Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor. It is true that parliamentarians from now on can speak in the intervening with Members whenever they judge. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions taken at dawn in Brussels are of historic importance, both for the European Union and, of course, for Greece. Let's all be honest with ourselves. Those who deal with these issues, even until last May, at the beginning of last May, could in no way believe that what was decided at dawn by the Heads of State and Prime Ministers in Brussels could be made a reality. These decisions change Europe's course. I think it is a decisive step towards European integration, but at the same time it is also a practical solidarity between the European Union and the economies and citizens who have been so affected and so deeply by the effects of the coronary. It is a message that Europe, which some thought might have departed from the values that recommended it, remains faithful to the values of cooperation, peace, solidarity and social cohesion. Greece, as the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, explained, is coming out of this package of approximately 72 billion. But simply so that every Greek citizen understands it, we must all know that, while to date we have traditionally had an NRP, now we will have two NSRPs and our obligation is fast, systemically, without delay, not just to absorb but to make the best use of these funds, which give an additional development boost to the country. Our Ministry is at the heart of these actions not only by the NSRF, even more by the Recovery Fund. Because if you read the decisions, you will see that our ministry's actions are at the heart of attention. The Recovery Fund finances renewable energy sources, in particular forms which have to do with modern hybrid technologies, etc., finances the Fund for a fair transition to western Macedonia and Megalopolis. And here I would like to point out that, according to our calculations, despite what my colleagues have previously observed in their positions, the amount which will be allocated is, in the end, twice the amount initially proposed by the European Commission last winter. Therefore, nothing negligible is under any circumstances. Instead, it is a strong injection for these areas. There are also large-scale actions for the so-called wave of renovations in buildings, public and private, actions that are part of a framework of energy savings policies. These actions will make today's 'I finance by house' appear to be a very small project. It is something that we all need to have our attention first of all. And of course, there are actions that concern us and the Ministry of Transport, because there will be funding from this green transport package. And, by saying green transport, I come to the bill we are debating today, because today, with this bill on the introduction of electricity, we are talking about the introduction of an eco-location in our country. It is not a bill, as they have been saying for months to withdraw cars, it is a speed change in relation to road traffic, whether it concerns cars, scooters or bicycles. It's another way to move around. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to start with the news of my position on the bill itself. So I want to say the following. In hearing the requests made in the public consultation and the proposals made in the House, the Government decides that the grant programme for the purchase or hire of the I.C. We are going to go further, and we are going to give another incentive to the citizens who want to obtain a motor vehicle. Thus, the programme will no longer provide a 15% subsidy, but a 20% subsidy for the cheapest cars of up to EUR 30,000 with a ceiling of EUR 6 000 instead of EUR 5 500, as it has so far been, and a lower rate of 15% for vehicles of over EUR 30,000 with a ceiling of EUR 6 000. I am saying this for citizens' overall information. I would also add that, in addition to this bill and the 'KINUMI ELECTRIC' initiative, which we will be formalising as soon as this bill gets a leaf of the Official Journal of the Government, the purchase or hire of an electric taxi with 25% and a ceiling of 15% for a hybrid taxi with a ceiling of EUR 8 000 is subsidised. The purchase or hire of electric scooters with 20% of the purchase price and bicycles at 40% of their value, which is the highest in Europe with a ceiling of EUR 800. I also add that this bill combines the bonuses to which I referred with significant tax incentives. For example, the cost of purchasing or leasing a more than a motorbike and motorcycle will be deducted by up to 50% and also by 70% of the islands. The market in these vehicles will be depreciated by increased coefficients from the first few years and the initial market in each electric car will be exempted from the evidence of living, but now after consultation and any mopeds or motorbikes of zero or low pollutants. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that in at least some cases, with the new increased, enhanced incentives that we are presenting today, we will have a reduction in the price of an electric vehicle of up to 35%. This is green policy in practice. Leave the petty criticism on the edge and move on to a truly green, ecological agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not just exhaust the motives. This bill, however much because of political achromatoscopy, cannot be seen or pretended not to see it, is a comprehensive intervention, an overall plan for the introduction of electromobility into the country. I must say that no matter how much this - and today I have seen it - it is questioned by the market, which has also been placed in the House. Almost everyone was in favour of this bill. I don't think we conspired with them. At the same time, in the last few days you might see ads from a large business in the area. I'll say the name, so it doesn't seem like I'm saying it in my head. I am referring to 'TESLA', which the other day made ads for recruiting officials in the country. If you doubt it, you can see the ads. All of this shows that we're on the right track. Now we're on our way. Eleven countries before us have adopted relevant incentives. We are the twelfth country in the European Union. Looking at good European practices, we are moving in a global way to create a new market, which obviously also entails new jobs in our country. What's the plan, beyond the motives? There are certain tax incentives within the bill for the construction of batteries, chargers, spare parts and - why not? - and electric cars in our country. Therefore, we will not only have imports of cars into the country, which we would have - because if we did not have imports of electric cars, we would have conventional and more polluting, of course, cars - but also have added value to the economy from here, the bill, precisely for the following reasons: we are reducing the tax rate by 5% for five profitable uses. We increase the depreciation coefficients, allowing depreciation in just three years. During the construction phase of an industrial plant, we are also completely exempting the firm from employers' contributions. And we're doing this? We are doing it in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, in those areas that are defoliation areas, therefore also a fair transition. And that, however questioned, is written in the bill. By saying this and by combining it with what I have said up to now, I would once again like to ask the Vice-Presidents to give up this micropsy on an allegedly toxicity. Because the more they repeat it, the more they are exposed. Let them ask cyclists, bicycle dealers, who have told us that in the last five times they have doubled their orders, and can serve with a waiting time of more than four months. Are the buyers of electric bicycles a shipowner and industrialists? That sort of classicism has this bill? Let them ask the inhabitants of western Macedonia - let them go tomorrow on a trip to western Macedonia and Megalopolis - if they consider the incentives we introduce to install battery units, chargers, etc., for electric cars in these areas. Let them also ask the young people who will find a job in the new market created for electric vehicles. Let them ask these young people if they seem to have a classic approach to it that is adopted by this bill. That's all about the motives. Secondly, this bill, obviously, apart from what I have described, also has a number of arrangements for the installation of chargers as a whole to the municipalities. In total, we start from the ports, from the airports, from the national roads. We have agreed with the concessionaires that the charger facility should be closed by the end of 2021. Also, in consultation with the CEDEFOP and the municipalities we want to achieve the greatest possible geographical coverage. We oblig the municipalities to design the charging points network in their area of responsibility, according to local needs, until March 2021 or for the small municipalities until 2022 and we finance them for it. For the support of the municipalities, the minimum content of the charging plans, consisting of the most critical public or municipal points, is laid on the law. On the basis of these studies, municipalities will be able to carry out competitive procedures to identify individuals responsible for the installation and operation of charging infrastructures in the administrative boundaries of the municipalities. We also provide the municipalities with know-how in carrying out the procedures, taking into account the specifications to be taken into account in the relevant notice - criteria for factors of gravity, etc. That's all for the municipalities. As far as homes are concerned, if I want to install in the charger's house for an electric vehicle, what's going on? We are introducing the procedures already envisaged for gas. In other words, there will be no express consent of 50 plus one of the owners in each building, but each one alone can proceed by simply informing the manager. Only if the five hundred millimetres of the owners in each building are expressly opposed, then can it be blocked for a substantial reason arising from a technical engineering report. It's not that simple, just to oppose the five hundred millimetres. At the same time, we are introducing the rule which obliges all new buildings from 2021 onwards to have the necessary infrastructure to allow the charging of electric vehicles in the future, all new buildings. And existing industrial buildings, where workers and customers park for several hours each day, must install a sufficient number of loading points within the next three years, by 1-1-2023, before the date, in fact, set by the European Union. I told you about the bonuses, about the tax incentives. I told you about the incentives for the production here of chargers and batteries in the lignite regions. I told you about the installation of chargers on national roads, ports, airports and municipalities. I told you about installing chargers in the houses. I now tell you about public participation, because the public has also been mentioned. For the public buildings that have parking spaces for the public, and in the light of the fact that the public must show the way to the new age of electromobility, it is imperative to install charging infrastructures in the next eighteen months, that is to say, 1-1-2022. It's written in the bill. Apart from that, however, it is foreseen that new supplies of electricity from the public sector must be of 25% per year related to this model of electricity use, to be electric vehicles. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Furthermore - Kostas Karamanlis, who is here, the Minister for Transport - the Ministry of Transport has a whole policy of his own in coordination with us and the Ministry of Finance, obviously - is a global government taxi policy - which I mentioned before - and for buses, which he will speak more extensively, because this policy was questioned in committee as allegedly exists. A good reason doesn't hurt. I think it reinforces the opposition, but do what you think. I'm on my way to two more points, and I'm closing up. One is the technical dimension, because this has also been called into question. Have you studied in the context of the supposed lack of a comprehensive plan, what about the technical dimension, with safety? We streamline fire safety requirements for parking spaces with points of charge in enclosed spaces, drastically reducing the required costs and the time of implementation. We have contacted the firefighting for all the provisions we are proposing in this regard. We are setting up a new ELOT standard for the electrical installation. We provide conditions for high-voltage workshops and the certification of skilled craftsmen. I don't think you're saying all that. I conclude by saying something about the supposed lack of a plan and the small scale of the whole project, saying that it is not a small scale at all. It's a hundred million to start. We can also have funding from national and European resources to continue to support this policy which is European policy. We can cover about fifteen thousand cars and twelve and a half thousand cycles with the current program of the first year. We are almost starting at zero, and we are being criticised by those who had us in zero that we are not going directly where the Netherlands and Norway are. Of course, we are moving on with this wide-ranging effort with a large social alliance. An agreement has been signed between the relevant ministries and eighteen market participants with commitments on their part. For example, the concessionaires, as I said, committed themselves to installing chargers on the national roads by the end of 1921. Similarly, there is a commitment of car importers for a thousand two hundred charging points in their own spaces. Of course, fuel stations are key to developing an adequate charging network. We are in dialogue with them and are also considering the possibility of a grant programme in the immediate future. I have heard in committee that we are practically excluding gasoline from such a situation, but in any case this government has a precedent for gasoline dealers. You say things that really surprise me, even though I have been in the Greek Parliament for some years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u103	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u104	I didn't say you said it, Mrs. Kafantar, but it was said. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that this is not a fashion bill. It's a bill of the new era. It's a bill that was our programme commitment, we said it and we do it. We have been doing so in a year since the new government was elected and after wide market consultation. We are on the way to Europe, we are on the way to protecting the environment. This bill is part of a more comprehensive green agenda to which I refer, because the opposition of micropsy will question our names shortly. The Green Agenda of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, hears, for example, in the name of liberation. The green agenda of our own government is being heard in the name of strengthening renewable energy sources, green energy. The green agenda of our own government hears in the name of accelerating the electrical connections of the islands to stop PPC’s wings. The green agenda of our own government hears in the name of a quick promotion of “I Save House”, and then promotes the renovation wave of houses to have energy savings and profit for the environment. The green agenda of our own government hears in the name of recycling and construction - auction only in this year, seventeen waste treatment plants, when the country had only six to date. The green agenda of our own government is being heard in the name of promoting the cyclists that we have begun to finance them. The green agenda of our own government hears in the name of withdrawal of disposable plastics. The bill is put into consultation. The green agenda of our government means that we have received a program from SYRIZA for reforestation for four years with zero euros in absorbing and zero in compromises, and we have managed in eight months to have invitations that exceed EUR 100 million. This is our 'green' policy. As much as you are upset as you are, this policy will continue to apply. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The distortion is at your expense. The petty opposition is opposition that harms you. Consider your opposition, deal with your internal issues, which with the revelations that come every day in the light of publicity are increasing and will increase. We, with modesty, seriousness and a system, but also with a genuinely green policy, will be involved in making Greece a modern European country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u105	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Socrates Famelos, is called in Stepma. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, I have to start differently. As today, fifty-five years ago, Sotiris Petroulas, a youth fighter, gives his life for democracy and freedom during a youth protest. Fifty-five years later Sotiris Petrolas is in our songs, but in his memory we must continue on the road of struggles and progress and not forget that this race is always timely. Today, in discussing the bill of electromobility, one day after the conclusion of the Council, we must state clearly that Greece is in economic and political catastrophe. Already since the last quarter of 19 we have been at a recession rate, that is long before the lockdown and the coronary. The deficit figures in the first half of the year amounting to six billion compared to the expected positive result show that there is a period of austerity, recession and unemployment. We have a negative record on unemployment, we have a salt in the measures on tourism, aalum in the measures on focus, on borders, on health protocols. The measures for the economy above all are not sufficient, despite the positive financial environment, the 'cushion', the low interest rates obtained by the previous government and the struggle of the Greek people. There are negative messages from Europe. But for Greece things didn't go so well yesterday. It is good that Europe has decided to create a common debt for the Recovery Fund, but the Greek Government, Mr Mitsotakis, turns from Brussels with fewer grants, more loans and many hereticities, with possible austerity conditions for disbursing resources. A great loser, Minister, is a fair transition which, in fact, is dramatically reduced for western Macedonia and Megalopolis. You have sadly triumphed once and now you must apologise to the people of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Unfortunately, optionals also reduce Europe's requirements for democracy. The only people who may be pleased will be the banks and the fiscal austerity. Finally, Mr. Mitsotakis got excellent for his mask, but that's all. Initiatives for the south didn't take. Initiatives for our country did not take. Initiatives to be able to have an effective social policy, as Europe needs, have not been implemented. And, unfortunately, the only thing that we can see you're leading is in creative accounting. How suddenly the 19 billion became 70 and this was brought back to the Greek Parliament today? Nobody knows. Greece has lost an opportunity and, unfortunately, we must also note the Council's dissatisfaction with Turkey. At the same time, of course, the Sage-Pisaridis Committee is preparing the well-known recipes for the memoranda. We have warned you that with the old neoliberal or modernising account, we will again lead to the social inequalities that were the cause of the crisis in 2009. Because those who participate in the committee are making memos as a golden opportunity and lead to a violent levelling-up of society and the economy. Something that the citizens who are talking about with us about the program 'CONTINULY', because they want to stay upright. And, unfortunately, even GATT does say that you are planning to convert small and medium-sized enterprises into unemployed or workers, while not creating competitiveness, value chains. You don't give motives. And this is the new social shock that is being prepared with troika recipes for small businesses as well. This, in the end, is the roller that you promised us beforehand, a roller against society, the middle class, the workers, the new generation. And as if not all of this is enough, we are living the authoritarianism that we have faced in the hardest extreme right times of the Samara - Venizelos government. The recent law on demonstrations wants to restrict society's rights, ban the demonstrations, because it comes to prevent the reaction of society to the austerity measures that you are preparing to bring. At the same time, you are limiting rights to health, education and welfare. You deny the right to youth, to mentality, to the people of culture to be considered freely, and the lyric takes the flesh and bones: 'because it has not complied with the suggestions'. Practices are being made to criminalise the political viewpoint of parastates in all areas, to hide your own deadlocks and unjust policies. We know that this is a diversion from the Mitsotakis government to hide injustice and shortcomings. Our cassette - piracy turns decades back, in times of violence against society, to distort popular opinion and consciousness and pluralism. Do what you can by trespassing the rules of independence of justice to cover the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. The whole world is exploring the scandal, NOVARTIS is making compromises in the United States, accepting the government's plan of influence. And in Greece, anyone who investigates the scandal is being persecuted. At the same time as the Peca list you seek to manipulate and squeeze the media. In the same direction we have a government which, in the midst of a pandemic, takes absolutely no care of citizens' access to basic goods, water and energy, particularly the most vulnerable households, who already feel the effects of the crisis, which will be extended to other social groups. Mr. Hatzidakis has announced two months ago the activation of the reunification fund, a measure which he operated on SYRIZA. They have not succeeded in making a simple ministerial decision for our fellow citizens who do not currently have electricity and there are tens of thousands of ruptured orders. Since you cannot, therefore, have tabled an amendment with Mrs Fotou and Mrs Kafantaris, which enables the vulnerable layers of our society, those affected by the crisis to have access to this basic good, the good of the energy you have chosen to take it out of the constitutional review that we have proposed to be in public control. You will be judged by your attitude today, Mr Hatzidakis, if you will accept the amendment of the SYRIZA that really supports millions of our people. Over a million is this social group. However, all you care about is the private interests and the "strong" of poster, of course, and the Golden Boys with the heavy wages. Because your course at the Ministry of Environment and Energy is to privatise everything. Privatisation and distribution of the natural gas network to a private private, privatization of electricity generation behind the pretext of the "green" Prime Minister. The communiqué of liberation, we say, leads to the privatization of electricity production and, in fact, to the destruction of it, with imported gas, to Greece being bound to the detriment of the Paris Agreement, away from the objective of climate neutrality. At the same time, you degrade PPC as a national pillar, reduce its electricity generation, reduce its customers, abolish the PPC, collective agreements, have privileged media funding and at the same time, Golden Boys. So I will present an article from Kathimerini stating that good customers are leaving PPC because of the unfair increases in Hatzidakis. In the environment, of course, you have even worse arrangements. The bodies ‘NATURA 2000’ have been repealed. It has introduced additional rules and special environmental studies have been overturned, narrating the protection of protected areas. And you have recently moved on to the abolition of forest maps, referring to the bells to their implementation, opening the appetite to trespassers and to all the ruffles of the right obviously. Don't make a mistake. Already on the Internet, declassification instructions for forest land were launched. You're opening this policy, Mr. Hatzidakis. And we will also put this in the Minutes, extinguishing the author, because there are already declassification instructions, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. Of course, we have brought back from the diversion of Acheloos until the deterioration of environmental control and environmental services. This is the anti-environmental identity of the New Democracy and not the fascinating emulsions for electricity. Why is Mr Hatzidakis coming today to rinse out the mark of anti-environmental law, environmental crime according to all environmental organisations, with a bill of electricity movement clearing the profile of the government. So we're telling you that electricity is Mr. Hatzidakis' ecological fertilizer, which is the only one to which he's distinguished is to sell. Electricity is, indeed, a central policy for climate neutrality. It must be promoted in a socially fair manner, based on a strategy rather than a communication show. Electricity was in the national energy and climate plan prepared by the SYRIZA government, and you keep the exact same factor of its promotion by 2030. You're not doing anything new. On SYRIZA, there was a ministerial decision on charging infrastructure, which you are holding today and you continue our policy. But what are you doing? So, as bodies have said, in the committee, you are making a bill for solid wallets and for a small number of electric cars. And today, being pushed by us, you came here to announce the extension of funding. Because we didn't disagree with the funding for electricity. But you lied about the number of cars that will enter the subsidy. In order not to accuse us of lying, because you said that those cards were incorrect information, Mr Hatzidakis, we will submit in the Minutes what is yours and has the Ministry's seal in the Minutes, the table, ladies and gentlemen, which says that only a thousand private vehicles are officially registered with the RIS seal - unless you disagree with this table - the Ministry proposes to be financed. Disprove the Ministry, Mr. Hatzidakis. Say, 'We've made a mistake'. I will submit the official figures and only a thousand seven hundred will be the chosen ones of the Government of New Democracy. We want electricity to reach the most distant point throughout Greece, which is why we are judging you. I'll put this in the Minutes too, along with the cover, because we're tired of hearing lies from this leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Of course, through the back door, what's this bill doing? It introduces unfair competition - it is written in the Minutes of this House - because it amends the car market, leads to price increases and second-handers, it is privileged to large companies import new cars from abroad, also affecting our country's trade balance. He doesn't have any incentive to withdraw, he only has a taxi. There is no incentive to change the IX fleet. It uses the income from the environmental fee, which will actually be paid by the society that wants to get a used car to fund these few thousand seven hundred, while we want this subsidy to go to all the social strata. Basically, it amends the market to the detriment of small and medium-sized professionals and citizens. Because that leads to an ageing of the fleet and thus a negative environmental footprint. Not to mention the votes - I am voting. Within this law we have amended New Democracy Law No.466/2019 on fiscal incentives, amendment of article 27 of Law No.4643 on the regulatory framework of the electricity market. In the amendments, Mr President, there are four amendments to the New Democracy regulation. It comes twenty-one days after the end of the timetable, to amend the timetable for the arbitrary. For LARCO, it amends its own legislation. In the case of saturated networks, Article 125 of Law 4685 also remodels it for forest maps after the issue of MSY remodels the law. It is tragic to underestimate the House and the sloppy legacy. Can it be proud of a bill that refers to sixteen ministerial decisions? You have been working on this plan for a year and a half, and it can be said in your statements for over a year and a half. Is it possible to refer to sixteen ministerial decisions and bring it back on Friday night again? I'll make you a habit, Mr. Hatzidakis. To say this clearly, the New Democracy has not completed the electricity project it has announced. And not to say anything, I will present to you in the minutes the decision to set up an Interministerial Committee, which you made in October 2019, which says that by June you will draw up a national electrification plan. You have no plan, you have not completed it, and you come, then, to skate a law that has serious gaps and we will show them. On the same day, a bill is being discussed by the Ministry of Economy, which has other registration fees on used vehicles, while the Minister for Infrastructure in his own press release - which I shall also submit - refers to the integrated plan of the Ministry of Infrastructure. How many plans do you have? I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. The truth is that in Article 43 of the bill we are discussing, Mr Hatzidakis empowers the ministers to draw up an electricity plan. So, you admit, Mr Hatzidakis, in Article 43, that you do not have a plan, and leave what you told the committees that the bill is the power-driven project. You don't have a power-driven plan, you admit it because you're authorized to make a power-driven plan. And we say yes, we need to make a plan for electricity and not just to run counter to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport. There are directions from the European Union, directions of science for electromobility, starting with other routes, Mr Hatzidakis. As far as public transport is concerned, we have heard nothing. As far as the railways are concerned, we have heard nothing. For the means of fixed track, we didn't hear anything. For urban transport, urban transport, public transport, transport, transport fleet, lorries, vans, bicycles, there are no solutions within the bill. Even your bike movements and bodies put these on. Neither the LEIs exist within the plan nor the bike and charging and parking are available within the plan. You don't have a plan, and that's why you're doing all this in a hurry. In terms of improving the atmosphere, in fact, electricity is a parameter for improving the atmosphere. However, the planned changes in the tariffs will lead to an increase in the price of second-hand workers, so the air quality in cities will be adversely affected. And we wonder where the business plan for Athens and Thessaloniki is, which was our obligation from the 2008 directive. Indeed, if I remember correctly, for Thessaloniki, we already had a preliminary stage from the European Union before the governance of SYRIZA, because when the period of our term of office ended, the plan for the region of Central Macedonia was complete. Let us look into it, ladies and gentlemen, because this is indeed a common goal, to have good air quality. The overall planning for the carbonisation of the transport sector is not done by subsidies, with changes in transport systems, for example through bold market movements. You cannot prohibit imports of 'Euro 1', 'Euro 2', 'Euro 3', but allow 'Euro 1', 'Euro 2', 'Euro 3' and not to have the political courage to put in a stimulus for withdrawal, so that we can change to non-polluting cars. Because you do not have that political courage. And this is Mr Hatzidakis' environmental backwardness. It does not dare to set a time limit for the withdrawal of old polluting cars, which prohibits their importation and leads Greece to certain convictions by the European Court of Justice. So we'll pay and fines for this virtual electrification process that starts. We believe it is necessary - and I conclude, Mr President - to have a strong policy on electricity, which first of all starts with the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u107	Please, finish it, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u108	I also use my dentistry, Mr President. Greece needs productive reconstruction, it needs a production plan, it needs a productive reconstruction plan, with which Greece can produce parts of electric cars, of course produce chargers, of course it needs batteries, and the cyclical economy must be used to make use of all these parts. What's in the bill? Ministerial decision, to see how we plan it. But this is incredible imperfection and legislative backwardness! We also need to make it clear: in the business cars and fleets circulating in Athens, what we call the City Logistics, namely vans and lorries - especially small and medium-sized cars - and taxis and, in particular, buses, we must move forward, and not allow, Mr Karamanlis, Thessaloniki, our country, to be supplied with turbulence of used buses for 15 years. You have stopped the competition of SYRIZA's electric buses because there was the opposite opinion. But the question is, Mr Karamanlis, for a year now this competition that has been stopped, why don't you start it again? Why don't you move on? Why in the press release I will submit you do not mention anything about urban transport, public transport, the means of fixed track, but are you referring to the objects that Mr Hatzidakis already has in the bill? The New Democracy is losing the opportunity to move forward with a major reform of electricity supply. It does not progress effectively on the issues of loading points, because it leaves them all on the market, and it does not clarify issues such as the contents of the projects, as does the procedure for controlling and approving the plans of the municipalities. Of course, it is clear that it favours only a few, about a thousand seven hundred people who will take private vehicles and importers, but it does not make it clear how the remote regions of the country will acquire charging points. How will this be done on the islands, where, for example, the settlements are under protection or - if you want - maintainers? Although there are positive elements, it leaves the vast majority of society out. What does Mr. Hatzidakis say? 'Let's get a bike!'. Mr. Hatzidakis, do we know that the New Democracy intends to make our lives a bicycle, but honestly, for the middle and popular family, do you only reserve the possibility of getting an electric bicycle? Can we not claim a project as a country so that the electromobile can spread? So, how will families be served, Mr. Hatzidakis? With electric bicycles alone? Evidently, the rate of boosting electric bicycles is right, but here we are talking about electric mobilization as a whole, both for transport and for urban transport. So all this is clear that these are serious problems, they do not correspond to the procedure of the circular economy. There is, of course, a great deal of funding. The financial instrument - we told the committees - is limited, it uses resources only from greenhouse gas rights, it does not have real funding. With the rate that has been announced so far, it is not enough for all those who have announced Mr. Hatzidakis to receive really electric vehicle or electric motor or bicycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Comrade, you've exhausted your dentistry. Please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u110	So the figures he told you aren't real, because he doesn't have the funding. However, one issue also awaits us as an inalienable condition - it is my last proposal, Mr President - the question of unfair competition and market modification, because you support a few by increasing the price of vehicles for all peoples and middle families. You are to blame for unfair competition, Article 5 which introduces these regulations has to be withdrawn, and this has been officially recorded in both the Minutes and by the SYRIZA. We will not put our backs on to make some richer while you will exclude from the electric movement and from the vehicle the whole of Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u112	Immediately, Minister. Your dentistry has been used too, Mr. Famele. I should like to say this to the committee and to the Conference of Presidents that we have dealt with this issue in our speeches. I am not speaking now on the occasion of Mr Famello, because many colleagues are doing so. Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear. The speaker cannot move away from the main theme of the speech. This can be done for the Chiefs and Parliamentary Representatives - exceptionally - in matters of topicality, but 2/5 of the year cannot be exhausted on matters outside the bill. I say this because it works at the expense of colleagues, ordinary Members and ordinary speakers, who want to talk next and it is something they are complaining about, we put it at the Conference of Presidents, but it is not observed here. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u113	I will not respond to Mr Famelou's speech. I just want to make two clarifications for the people who are watching and for the citizens, because there is a audience who is interested in these issues. First clarification: Mr Famellos said that there are no incentives for disabled people. Wrong! Obviously, he did not read the government's bill and announcements carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u114	The LEADER Union has said so!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u115	Specific regulations are provided for, EUR 1,000 above for disabled people, if they are interested in buying a car. Subsidies are also planned for electric cars. That is clear beyond any party controversy. Also, there are similar incentives for tents. I did not mention them in my speech earlier. Mr Famelos' position gives me the opportunity to make these clarifications so that the people concerned know them. Secondly, Mr Famellos questioned how many the beneficiaries of this programme could be. I have the bills here, but in any case, he found an older text from the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u116	When older, Mr. Hatzidakis? You're lying! Say the date! Why are you lying? What's the date of the text?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u117	Don't interrupt. Mr. Famelle, you weren't interrupted by the Minister. Please, Mr. Femmelle, don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u118	I've been placed in the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u119	Why are you lying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u120	I've been placed in the House... Please, Mr. Famele, no more parasites. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u121	Why are you interrupting, Mr. Famele?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u122	I give a clarification to the world - I am not concerned with your speech - which in any case was what it was. I'm talking to the world, so people know, not Mr. Famello. Mr. Famelos thinks he's in Helsinki and we're in winter. All right, his right. What I want to say to the Greek citizens is that one of the programmes, which we are announcing, will be able to grant a total of some fifteen thousand cars and twelve and a half thousand bicycles. That's why I spoke to the committee, it's in the Minutes of the House. I repeat today what I said just before the Step for the third time, and if there are still doubts next week that will be announced the program "KINUMI ELECTRIC", you will see how much money it is, how much it is per car, you will see the divisions, you will make your bills. That's how things are, so the evidence is. That's it. I know things don't suit you. I would ask you to do what I said to you another time, when you speak using the word'speaking', to look at the mirror.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u123	So, was your text wrong? In writing, I testified it to you. Do you mind the documents we deposited?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u124	Your party has the world record of deception of citizens!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u125	Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy. Then we will give the floor to Mr Karamanlis, the Minister for Infrastructure, to develop the amendment. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, today's bill is another reform of the Mitsotakis Government, a complex legislative initiative based on the participation of three ministries, infrastructure and transport, the economy, the environment and energy, an initiative that aims to cure the bad statistics of the country. They heard before: Old cars, 15-and-a-half years average and 0.33% electric vehicles, seventy-seven charging stations, eighty-nine all over the country and most of them thanks to the private initiative. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, is occupied by the President-in-Office of the Council.]] This is therefore a leap, not only to the more economic use of new technologies, but also to the environmental protection of our cities and not only. Incentives are thus given to making the use of electric cars more attractive and more general environmentally friendly transport. In particular, the cost of purchasing and long-term rental for purely electric or hybrid low-emission vehicles is directly reduced from the outset. Thus, it is now possible to replace IX passenger, corporate and taxi vehicles more easily. Granting actions are being launched for electric vehicles in order to make them more accessible. In the near future, we are energising the program "KINUMI ELECTRIC" that will offer 100m euros for buying or renting electric cars, cycles and bicycles from private companies. From 1-1-21 and for two years electric vehicles will have free parking either where a parking fee is provided or in a municipality concession. An increased deduction from taxable income shall be granted for the costs of purchase or hire of electric and hybrid vehicles, including motorcycles and motorcycles, and for the costs of installing charging points. In addition, special care is taken with incentives for enterprises active in island municipalities and want to exploit these new technologies. The depreciation rates for both vehicles and chargers shall be increased in order to facilitate tax incentives for enterprises and professionals who choose them. We also ensure that the use of a company electric vehicle and its charging costs are not included in taxable income. We exclude the cost of purchasing purely electrical IX from tax presumptions for up to EUR 50,000. Only by tax incentives to see the mid-border price reduction that we achieve for electric cars will be 25% and for electric bicycles it will be 40%. So, in other words, this is a radical change, not only of Greek business society, but also of the state itself, which is now becoming dynamic in the field of electricity and public transport. At this point, Mr Ministers, I would also like to remind you of the great task of electrifying the Volos-Larissa railway line, a work of breath for the whole of Thessaly, whose tender we are waiting for in the summer, so that construction begins as quickly as possible. ERGOSE's delays and lack of planning on SYRIZA naturally did not constitute excuses for our own government. All this belongs to a bad past. The future is what matters to Magnesia. Amateur management, colleagues of SYRIZA, a series of similar projects all over Greece, resulted in fiasco and zero absorption for these operations. So you can't blame the government for lack of a plan to mobilize the Mitsotakis government. In the case of Magnesia this is equivalent to untapped funds only for this project of EUR 2 million. I think it is time for the Ministry of the Environment to resolve the legal link you caused, colleagues of the SYRIZA, to proceed with the project immediately from the NSRF. Ladies and gentlemen, another aspect of development, the draft legislation under discussion, is the support for renewable energy sources. Indeed, for the Greek region, the use of renewable energy sources is a critical parameter, not only economically, but also in terms of the transfer of know-how and why not produce wind, solar and water energy technologies. In the case of Magnesia and its islands, all three coexist and can be exploited for the benefit of all its inhabitants. The question is how to ensure the environmental compatibility of renewable energy sources with other uses of the structured environment, such as tourism and housing. That is why, Minister, I have asked from the beginning of June a question to the Ministry of the Environment about what the procedures for informing local societies are before the authorisation of renewable energy projects by the Energy Regulatory Authority. I am sure that the expected response will enlighten public opinion and will enable the Magnesian people in particular to be informed by the Ministry about the positive effects of such investments both in the protection of the environment and in other areas of the daily lives of citizens. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to stress that the amendment on the three-month extension of the normalization of the arbitrary system was absolutely essential, especially because of the quarterly freezing of the pandemic. Thus, both the above constructions and any arbitrary uses can be settled by the end of September with the exceptionally favourable discounts in force. It is another positive measure of the government, which I hope will be recognised as such by the Civic Opposition, because the lasting refusal of any useful change brought by the New Democracy and the complaining mania of the SYRIZA must at some point meet with reality. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you must once begin to speak seriously about the problems of many, not just criminally accountables, small minorities and vulnerable people of the past. To talk about the future at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, too. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for many years in its economic crisis in many areas, I would say that it has been presented as an example to avoid the European Union. We all know that. This picture, however, has been overthrown by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the last 12 months. Our country has become an international example to imitate this time and for the successful management of the crisis at our borders and for the treatment of pandemic. We have therefore proved that in this country we can do it. We have shown that we can distinguish positive from negative. Now, what we need to do is to continue in the same positive direction, first of all, in the very health crisis, which seems to be afflicting the whole world for a long time, as well as in the recovery of our national economy. In an effort to restore the Greek economy, we now have - as Mr Hatzidakis said - a valuable tool at our disposal, the Development Fund. Let us leave political controversy here and say things once with their name. This is a great national success, since the sum that will fall into the Greek economy is, in principle, far greater than what we had budgeted. Therefore, the Prime Minister himself returns to Athens with a package much larger than the original package. Let's see the numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 72 billion. Of these - because some reproach has been heard by the opposition, and I would like to answer - the 31 billion from the Recovery Fund and 41 billion from the European budget. Of the 31 billion of the Recovery Fund, 19 billion will be for grants and 12 billion for loans. These subsidies therefore correspond to a new NSRP. However, they correspond to a new NSRF with more flexible conditions, without any financial constraints. I think this is the big deal. It's not just how much money the Greek economy will get. The point is how we can absorb this money, not keep an umbrella and rain money, as SYRIZA's colleagues did when it was in power. So our work now is as a political world to decide where and how to channel that money. Here you will allow me to say that infrastructure projects, large infrastructure projects, play a huge role. They are very important, because the multiplier that these projects have on the economy, on employment issues, is very great. We therefore need - here we all need to stand up to the circumstances - a truly wider political agreement on where to channel this money and sometimes this place to leave the whim and misery so that we can agree on which aspects of the Greek economy we really need to invest. So our government adopts courageous and modern policies. And I come to the bill. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the work he has put into it. Electricity is an area in which, unfortunately, the previous SYRIZA government has once again proved to be a great deal of talk, progressive in words, but in practice zero. There was not even a subject on their agenda, ladies and gentlemen. That's the reality. I am really sorry to say this because I see the opposition facing it today in a way, I would say, miserable. Contrary to the suggestions that have been made, this bill shows that it is a central political priority of our government and I would say a personal bet of Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis himself. Because there may still be many difficulties, which we all understand, and electromobility, if you like, for the few. However, electricity is the future, it is tomorrow, and that is what we want to move forward with a plan. As a central political objective, therefore, electricity is run by a series of ministries, which we have collaborated harmoniously all this time. I'd say that's something rare about Greek data. By the way, here I would like to thank Mr. Habsburg so much. Hatzidakis and his Secretary-General, Mr Sdukos, because we worked very harmoniously and worked fertilely on a matter that was truly crucial. But before we get to the way we go to tomorrow and the future, which is electricity, let's see where we are today. The energy transition to more environmentally friendly technologies is a huge challenge for the whole of the world and, in particular, for transport. The transport sector accounts for about a third of the final energy consumption and 30% of the greenhouse gas emissions. The broadest and most ambitious European objective is by 2050 for greenhouse gas emissions to be zero and for urban traffic to be done exclusively by non-conventional vehicles. In order to achieve this, therefore, our country must pay particular attention to electricity. Give me two minutes to tell you what the four axes of the plan we have drawn up in the Ministry of Transport are soon. First, a renewal of the older automobile fleet. I have heard the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman touching on the old fleet of cars. I would agree with him that we have one of Europe's oldest car fleets. Of course, in his days, I didn't see them take a single measure about it. However, we have set an ambitious target in the next ten years for one in the three cars to be put on the market to be electrical. But we don't live there. Our plan covers every category. And I'm explaining. First, IX. With serious incentives for purchasing or renting electric vehicles, cars and motorcycles. At this point I should add something more. I will link this draft law to that of the Ministry of Finance, which is being discussed in the committee responsible, and will soon come to plenary. So in the bill, we have a provision in place to deal with an absurdity, which has existed for too many years in our country, a provision which concerns the importation of used cars. We are now mobilising these vehicles, which are modern technology, providing low registration fees. We are finally putting an end to what has been done for some time only in Greece from all the countries of Europe, that is to say to motivate the introduction of old cars, without protecting the consumer and without protecting the environment. Second, business vehicles. We, as Mr Hatzidakis said, give similar incentives for cabs, lorries and the renewal by electric vehicles of the fleet of companies and, of course, buses. Here, you will allow me once again to respond to the incredible lies that are heard from the side of the counterpopulation. SYRIZA's government destabilised OSTH. In OSCE and OSH. Five and a half years in power, ladies and gentlemen, they did not buy a new bus and come here with their friendly tactics and they are "swinging the finger". So what have we done in this year? Firstly, we are building a tender for the supply of new buses, which will be ready in September and will be financed by the European Investment Bank. Because the previous government had failed to secure this funding and a few months before it fell, in their favourite tactics, they had done a "yes" "yes", a competition for the supply of a thousand buses, which they said was the government of New Democracy and canceled. There's no bigger lie than that. The independent review authority itself annulled the tender because it was actually photographic. So nicely set up the bus contests! You made them in the leg, they were falling, and then you blame others for your own carelessness. Where are we now? We're honest with the citizens. We have a full picture that at the moment the situation in the public transport sector, especially in Thessaloniki and Athens, is problematic. In Thessaloniki, I'd say she's too bad. The supply of new buses, however, because we are talking about a big competition and we have to follow the procedures, it will take eighteen months. What are we gonna do? Are we going to stay with your hands crossed? Oh, no. We are doing something that is happening in all the countries of Europe. We are establishing and introducing the institution of leasing in Greece. So we come and get used or new rolling stock so that we can fill this two-three-year gap, until the buses gradually come, which at 25% - 30% will also be power-driven. So we are ready to move on. We're moving on with a plan. In Thessaloniki, the competition has already been held and will soon be held in Athens. We're talking about bus leasing. In order not to remind our dear colleagues in SYRIZA that the "dreaming" government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos left a thousand eight hundred vehicles on the streets of Athens, on buses and trolleyes. Today, when we received the administrations of the agencies, we had eight hundred fifty buses with an average over the age of sixteen. So these to put things in order. The second axis is infrastructure for easy charging. The aim is to create a European network for the development of publicly accessible charging infrastructures. Mr Hatzidakis said so to the committee, to repeat it again, too. The number of loading points this year will reach two thousand, 2025, 12 thousand and 2030 will reach twenty-five thousand chargers. The third axis of the project is the detailed monitoring of the electricity market, through the electricity market infrastructure and market operators register, in which all rechargement infrastructures and relevant operators will be recorded. This registry will be able in real time to provide users with all the information, such as the availability of charging points, if these charging points are free of charge or occupied, the price and the way of payment. The fourth axis is the preparation of transport for the new era. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in order to really enter the age of electromobility, it is necessary to modernise the services provided to the users themselves. We therefore regulate the licensing and operation of repair and maintenance workshops for electric vehicles, as well as the qualifications required for the profession of electric motor vehicle operator. We also form an appropriate framework for the classification of electric vehicles of each type. Personally, I am sure that with the integrated policy developed by the Ministry of the Environment and we have helped as the Ministry of Transport, electricity will soon be mobilised in Greece, not a goal that we set for the future, but the daily life that we are going to experience. It is a bill that we are doing in line with Europe's path, a path which has to do with the broadest ambitious green agenda, which the Prime Minister himself has presented and has to do with liberation and green transport, and with electricity, so that Greece and this area are not an example to avoid, but an example to be imitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. The Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Athanasios, has the floor for two minutes to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the long-term amendment number 402 and a special 27, which extends the declarations of the Committee of the Regions of Lesvos and Lesvos, in view of the fact that the deadline for the submission of Lesvos on 30 May and Lesvos on 4 July. This is because people have not been able to make progress in the short term on the well-known issues, particularly the coronary. They could not move and collect all the documents they needed, but much more those who lived outside the islands could not go to their own homes to collect the evidence they needed to submit the declarations. That is why I ask you, Minister, to accept the amendment for the corresponding period which expires on 4 October. As far as the bill is concerned, just a few words. I have heard some questions from rapporteurs and Members. I would ask you to refer to the Legislative Report, which is so thorough that all these questions are resolved. It is a pioneering bill, which reflects the philosophy of the government, the Ministers responsible and, of course, reflects the current trends in the protection of the ecology. It is a victory, Mr. Minister of the ecology. Please accept the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor. As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u132	I am taking the floor, Mr President, simply to say that the Government will accept this amendment for the extension of the deadline for holding in Lesvos on all the grounds explained by Mr Athanasios just before and I do not need to repeat them. So we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u133	The speech is made by Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Palioura on behalf of the New Democracy for six minutes, followed by Mr Hatzisvassiliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, since Mr Hatzidakis wisely did not respond to Mr Famelos' opposition speech, let me stand on two or three points. Bearing in mind very carefully what has been heard in this Chamber today has caused me to say very much about the fact of irresponsibility in his speech. He talked about NOVARTIS scandal and was disturbed, I imagine like all SYRIZA, about the fact of recording, that of stripping what really happened. For ten months, as a member of the Committee of Inquiry, we have heard signs and monsters from senior officers for events that have been known, but these are obviously not of interest to the opposition. Of course, the fact of the Pappiggopoulos scandal is not of interest. What is of interest to the opposition is recording. Did it only take a transcript of Mr. Sabby Mioney's conversation to show the truth, which was what? The only thing that's been interested in SYRIZA for five years has been the hawk, the money. You also talked about Matty. You were disturbed by the fact that registration, pressure, blackmail, threats that this man, the expert, has been exposed. Weren't you disturbed the hundreds of two victims? Didn't it bother you that for two years these people have been asking for justice? Did it bother you that the truth was revealed? You talked about PPC, about the fact that we are demilitarizing, we privatise PPC. The fact that for five and a half years you have not operated was a proverbial one, and you have been inherited inherited, and we have had to strengthen it with 200 million to rescue it, does not touch you. You spoke of forest maps and that we are now abolishing them. The fact that hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens in your administration had to be troubled and spent enough money to save and safeguard their property, possibly involved in objections and in courtrooms, does not touch you. You said we're making your life a bike. No, Mr. Femmelle. You and your five - year - old government made our lives a bicycle and even a pervert bicycle. What is bothering you, of course, is that this government is doing it and, indeed, it is doing well. And as he does extremely well, this means that the nakedness of your own governance is revealed. You should get used to this, however, because we are, in fact, determined to continue at the same pace, more labour-intensive, more dynamic, more targeted, of course, something that you have not done in any way. So adjust your opposition speech, because as long as you do not, you are exposed. So we are going forward with our parliamentary and legislative process, today bringing to the vote a bill that encloses the special care of the environmental government. We are gradually regulating today's conditions for a better tomorrow for our country and our planet. Of course, as a Member I am elected to the Trikala Law, I could not start my speech from the fact that my law has been making the maximum effort for many years at all levels, and we hope that in the near future there will be nothing to be jealous of by European cities, at least in terms of innovation in the area of pollutant containment. It is no coincidence that, in a tribute to the British "GUARDIAN" the town of Trikala is marked as one of the twenty most intelligent cities in the world. The extensive use of bicycles in my town, Trikala, has been an integral part of the daily life of my fellow citizens for many decades. But the automated electric drive was launched for the first time in Trikala. In 2015 we brought and tried for the first time, on a global level, electricity vehicles without drivers in the city centre. At that time, along with the famous bus without a driver, two electric cars were used. It should be noted, of course, that Trikala was a global initiative - an originality in relation to the remaining four European cities participating in the "City Mobile 2", i.e. Milan, Leon, La Rochelle and Vanta, as Trikala was the only one of the five participating cities that dared to launch the bus in an uncontrolled urban environment at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed in the objectives of the New Democracy Government to introduce our country into a new era, where basic pillars will be environmental protection and to preserve it as a good we must inherit to future generations. We are not talking, of course, about the distant future, but about the immediate, very near future. We must move in this direction immediately, as with a total of five and a half million registered vehicles in the country, Greece, as has been said by many other colleagues, has the oldest fleet of private vehicles in Europe, with an average of 15 and a half years and with more than sixteen years of traffic. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me a moment, Mr President. The transport sector in Greece accounts for about 40% of the final energy consumption, while some 96% of this consumption is covered by oil products. These elements constitute a set which is excessively burdensome to the environment, particularly large urban centres. It is a serious problem, not only at the level of air pollution, but also in the area of road safety, as vehicles with reduced protection for passengers and pedestrians are in circulation. In this draft law, therefore, the following is provided for: first, to provide incentives to make the use of electric vehicles more attractive; second, to develop the network of charging points for the service of electric vehicles throughout the territory of the public and private reserves and, finally, to develop the regulatory framework for the operation of the electricity market, i.e. the charging points and services associated with them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have in our hands today a bill which is evaluated in advance for its influence on society. As we now formally go hand in hand with the modern and global trend of 'Think Green', we are taking a slower approach to the main sources of air pollution, where road transport is part of it. Air pollution is the most important environmental risk to health in the European Union, where every year we have at least four hundred thousand deaths. Our government with insight is committed to a green and resilient future, with a strong sense of responsibility towards our children and future generations. With particular interest in intelligent and innovative investments in the country, incorporating European directives into our law and in the legislative framework of our country, special care for electricity mobilisation, we are, in essence, modernising the antiquated current regime. I would like to close, borrowing the phrase of the UN Secretary-General: 'To take care of people, we must first of all take care of the environment'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, too. Mr Hatzidis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy and the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will follow Mr Gokas. Here you are, Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with the argument I have heard from SYRIZA's colleagues on the classity of electromobility. Unfortunately, you are once again putting the well-known sign to split the world and showing with the finger the one who will choose a vehicle to depreciate in a few years the price difference and drive a car friendly to the environment. So I wonder: Is it a classic policy to grant for electric bicycles and taxis? Is it a class policy to grant a private person who chooses cheaper travel? All those who benefit today, what is it? Industrials? Millions? So I wonder. So we are voting today on a bill that leads us to the future, a bill, which is a reserve for the next generation. The government once again demonstrates its sensitivity to the environment and the health of citizens. These are the priorities in the bill, which is why we call on everyone to support it. The benefits will be many and will improve in the long term the quality of life of all the citizens of the country. We slowly build clean and sustainable cities. We protect public health. We're limiting dangerous pollutants. We're reducing noise pollution. We ensure cheaper travel costs for all the citizens of the country. And yes, that concerns us all: state, local government, professionals, every simple driver. This draft law regulates all the parameters to ensure the success of the project and the transition to a new era of movement with fewer fossil fuels. We know that this is neither simple nor easy. But that was a commitment of the New Democracy, which today takes flesh and bone. So no one today claims that this transition will be done automatically. But it is very positive and important that the Ministry's initiative has been embraced by all the social and economic actors since the first time in public consultation. So today, in order to achieve the objective, subsidies and tax incentives are provided for the purchase of vehicles and the development of charging points and the so-called 'eco-monetary bonus'. The combination of both will therefore bring the traffic of electric vehicles on the roads faster and, indeed, the subsidy will reach 1/3 of the market price, as the Minister said. In addition, we are giving considerable incentives to develop charging points both from public and private. The ambition is to develop a number of spaces within a short time, so that the issue of charging does not constitute a hindrance to the market for such a vehicle. In this direction, the green agreement, as the Minister said, was also signed, which sets the obligations of each body in order to promote electricity. The aim, therefore, is, until August 2021, at least one new vehicle in four new vehicles is to be powered. Of course, this effort also contributes to the public, which will gradually begin to change the fleet of buses circulating in our cities. Furthermore, this bill creates important investment opportunities by passing through a time without lignite and, of course, with fewer fossil fuels. It sets out specific important incentives for the installation of productive units related to the electromobility in the prefectures of western Macedonia, but also in Arcadia, where we will slowly have liberation. So the New Democracy Government proves that it does not forget anyone and support every region, which will be in transition. In all this, a new field of economic activity begins. The government is also interested in the productive dimension of electricity. For this reason, significant developmental and tax incentives are now being given for the production of battery chargers, because not cars, as we have heard earlier. So we are not only promoting the improvement of environmental conditions, but also creating a new important market. In practice, a new area for jobs is being created well-paid, for exploiting the human potential of the country, for technological research and for innovation. The bill therefore sets important foundations for a new added value in the Greek economy. Today, then, we are voting on a detailed and bold bill, which concerns all those areas that the country needs to develop over the next decade. We look into the future with certainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, too. Mr. Gokas has the floor on behalf of the Movement of Change. Here comes Mr. Economou on behalf of the New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a comment on developments since yesterday's summit. It is good that there is a decision, with compromises obviously, with asterisks, perhaps, with details that we do not know at the moment and we should study better. However, Europe had to justify its prospect, with decisions to support the people at this difficult time. He had to give the opportunity for solidarity and social justice and put aside interests that are trying to be imposed by the position of economic power. If the structure collapses, everyone will lose. If it succeeded, we will certainly know that when the implementation of the decision begins, much more when we see the result. It is, in principle, a positive development for the South, but also for Europe itself. The prospect of political and economic unification is the one that is being tested in these cases, and decisions should guarantee the very existence of the European Union, to support their peoples who have no other austerity. The package that emerges appears to be great and, of course, the responsibilities are great. For the Recovery Fund we know that we finally have a 3 billion cut to 19 billion, with an increase in loans at 12.5 billion, while the European budget totals a reduction, with an increase in Cohesion Fund resources, stable resources for the CAP, but also a reduction to one-third of the Fair Transfer Fund. And that's not positive, for Greece it's one billion. In any case, however, the government directly must organise a debate to co-formulate a national reconstruction plan. so that the resources available benefit from the development effort, from all - business and workers - to deal with social problems and to launch a stable economic recovery and labour support path. Of course, the juncture generally imposes the need for national unity and national line on many issues and, above all, on Turkish aggression. We are one day after the 40th anniversary of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus, a anniversary which reminds us that this wound remains open and requires determination and struggle on the basis of international law for a fair and sustainable solution. Of course, the postponement of a substantial debate in September, in relation to the issues we have with Turkey, should hopefully not find us in front of new data by escalating aggressive action on its part either in the Aegean or in the Mediterranean. I would also like to mention that, as a parliamentary group today, we are asking a question about the facts and the course of the investigations and the course of the restoration of Matty. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that what we are aware of is happening at the time of the murderous and destructive fire and that these incredible dialogues are evolving at the highest and highest levels of the Fire Service. It is imperative, since it is the minimum debt to the victims of this tragedy, that the truth be revealed, in relation to what is being said about pressures, the cover up of responsibilities and the very thing that has happened. It is certainly a blow to this case, especially to the authority of the Fire Service, that it is wrong for the Fire Corps, officers and firefighters, who self-sufficiently serve their duty away from those who only care for the competitions. This case needs to be investigated in depth by the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen, a political debate will take place tomorrow in plenary, where we have detailed positions on the NOVARTIS case and on the pre-review committee and its findings. For us in this case, there is also the political conduct and the scandal of drugs. For our part, the main objective is to serve transparency, but also the institutional and independent functioning of justice. They are issues and justice and democracy. Our executives have been targeted, without any evidence having arisen against them and our country is trapped in the vortex of construction with the responsibility of the SYRIZA, but also omissions of the New Democracy in the past year, has not claimed and received any compensation from the real scandal of the medicine, which was not investigated in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I move on to the bill, and I begin with the issue of the defoliation of the region of Western Macedonia, which emerges from the confirmed timetable for all units to close in 2023 and remain one by 2028. It is a small year that also creates energy security issues. We cannot talk about national sovereignty when the country is based on 100% fuels in imported fuels and for reasons clearly the security of energy supply is not meant without PPC in its first role, let alone PPC absent. So we need clean answers from the government on these issues. As a movement of change, we ask that the transition clause be a restoration and guarantee clause. A month ago, our President in Kozani stressed that the regions of western Macedonia and Megalopolis should remain demographically active with their economy. Mrs Gennimatas also referred to the particular problems of the region, arising from ligniteification, such as the question of the operation of the teleheats for certain municipalities in Western Macedonia, and proposed the creation of a high-efficiency cogeneration and heat production unit with gas, which would solve, not only the problem of heating in the municipalities, but would offer the possibility of cheap energy, which could be used by enterprises in the agricultural-food sector. He also proposed that western Macedonia become a pilot-in-command in electricity production and that citizens be encouraged respectively to "EXOCOCONOME", an energy democracy reference area. This proposal creates economies of scale for every household, but gives a comprehensive and strong boost to the region and creates a model of energy change, as our former colleague, Mr Koukulopoulos, said in his article. This model combines actions on the forefront of climate change, which is the biggest problem for the planet, with the need to address the major social problems and challenges to tackle unemployment with growth, employment and social justice. It is obviously not a solution to the unlimited development of giant RES facilities in 80,000 acres of productive land, which serves very few. This is not exactly 'green' policy, contrary to an organised plan of productive activities, which can absorb both thousands of unemployed and have development benefits for the people and the national economy. With regard to the priority and incentives to develop battery chargers and other electrical components, they are in a positive direction for the lignite regions, Western Macedonia and Megalopolis, but this is not enough for the future of these regions. The bill we are debating, ladies and gentlemen, brings an institutional framework that is necessary to promote electricity mobility in Greece. As mentioned and discussed in committee, the "KINUMI ELECTRIC" action will be activated with 100 million euros for purchasing and rent subsidies, as well as for installing chargers, business cars, scooter, bicycles, taxis and thousands of seven hundred I.C. We have to look at the criteria. Priority should be given to the development of the domestic construction sector. Not only do foreign companies benefit. To benefit the citizen through the economic and sustainable way of moving. A few days ago, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis, who is currently in the Chamber and spoke a moment ago, presented a comprehensive plan to which he referred today. I think it should have been jointly tabled by the two Ministries with a single bill, to have a detailed debate on all the proposals contained in the committees, because in Parliament time is limited. I will not go into the axes which the Minister himself mentioned. I'll stand in two or three parts. I repeat that it could be a more comprehensive debate and a more comprehensive draft law on electromobility. A critical field is the creation of infrastructures for easy charging. This scenery should become cleaner. Are they going to be everywhere or should we have some more careful choices? It is said that these points will be all over the country's road network, but also in private and public areas. On the other hand, there is the proposal of the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Agencys for exclusive safe use of loaders, only in power and power stations. I think that this issue, along with the spaces on taxi plates, in private buildings, such as apartments, should be seen more carefully. I also think it is important, in fact, to monitor the electricity market in detail. For our part, ladies and gentlemen, as a Change Movement, we support the green development and transition to electricity, while exploiting renewable energy sources at the charging points. At the same time, however, we must avoid adverse environmental effects from other initiatives, such as the giant wind parks, which change the nature of areas such as the mountain range of Epirus, and for which there is a unanimous negative decision by the Regional Council of Epirus. The government wants to project its environmental profile. However, it excludes from today's legislation more substantial actions in Sustainable Mobility Infrastructures such as the development of rail, tram and metro, which remain stagnant or delayed. Some figures have been mentioned today, but we are far from complete legislature. That is why we believe that this draft law deals with the issue of the promotion of the electromobile movement. Its provisions, at the same time, relate to a few. The acquisition of an electric vehicle, in today's Greek society and reality, concerns those who already have a car and are interested in getting a second or a third. However, the transition to electricity must be supported by a brave and escalating subsidy on the basis of income criteria. Our position is to channel as large sums as possible into the weakest economies, to have access to the market for electric vehicles and to replace older polluting vehicles and to the citizens with small and medium-income - at this time it is not possible - to create broad entrepreneurship opportunities for the Greek economy, with strong incentives for the development of the electricity industry in our country, to withdraw old cars with financial incentives to buy new electric vehicles. With regard to the prohibition on importing old-tier vehicles and the environmental charges for Euro 4 and Euro 5 vehicles - a ban on Euro 1, 2 and 3 - this should be linked to overtaxation of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, up to 200% tax burden. This Ministry invokes environmental considerations, but they are provisions which also create an unequal regime on the domestic market and automobile imports. It is a point that needs to be streamlined. In conclusion, I repeat that it is important to examine the proposals for more decisive support for the most vulnerable social groups with resources for actions targeted and specifically motivated, such as inhabitants of remote islands, for multiple families, for people with disabilities. Only a reference to some of the measures mentioned by the Minister, and especially the "Security at House". Minister, change the framework within which the "Security at Home" moves, so that both the citizens and the engineers involved can cope, without creating these frictions and these problems, from which the labors are lost and there is a frustration around this programme. Put it in another frame. We are voting, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, on this bill, because we consider it necessary to promote electromobility. We have reservations about a number of articles and amendments on which we shall be placed on our agenda. However, we believe that the policy, as it emerges from this bill and with everything that has been discussed, is far from being an integrated green policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Goka. Mr. Ioannis Economou from New Democracy followed by Mr. Dionysios Stamenitis, similarly by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, promoting electricity, increasing its penetration into the habits and everyday life of citizens is a need which, I think, no one can deny. After all, the benefits are important in various areas too. Electricity contributes to reducing the cost of mobility, contributes to reducing atmospheric pollution and local noise pollution, leading to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions - the transport sector in Greece represents 25% of these pollutants - and, finally, it can also produce macroeconomic benefits. Based on this, the perspective from which one has to be placed in this draft law is whether the framework for its proper development, namely the proper development of electromobility, is ensured in order to achieve these objectives. In fact, five are the main interventions in which we are moving in this direction: Firstly, the scope for the operation of electricity in the country is clarified. The market around the charge is properly configured and adjusted. Local authorities are facilitated to participate and to monitor this new market. Secondly, the Government ensures that this new market is financed with EUR 100 million. It is funding, which gives subsidies, provides incentives for tax, but it is not limited to them alone. At the same time, we are creating the conditions for a new market. We therefore come to the third very important intervention of the bill, because through the development of private investments relating to the creation and operation of a charging infrastructure network, the provision of the respective services and the production of electricity supply, we create economic benefits for businesses, for local communities and, of course, many new jobs. In fact, for this latter reason, the production of electrical-powered vehicles in our country, which is very important, is particularly motivated by the areas which will pass into the post-lining era. This is the fourth very important intervention of the bill for both these regions, but also for the country, given that the conditions are in place, so that Greece can enter the candlestick of this emerging market, not only as an importer and consumer but also productively. Finally, the fifth important intervention is to increase the minimum number of clean cars, which will now be supplied to the public in each tendering procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to make it possible to reduce pollution, reduce carbon dioxide emissions, halt the effects of climate change, and so much more, it is not just the movements, protests, technocratic approaches and much more, the taxes and the koruna. There is a need for a direct change in our attitude to natural resources. We need to change the way in which we produce energy, how we produce and consume food. We need to change the way in which we move, in which we build our buildings, even how we choose the countries and the companies from which we obtain their products. These changes primarily require, ladies and gentlemen, tools and applied policy. The bill we are debating today is another step, it is another tool of applied policy, in order to give answers and content to the need and demand of society and, above all, of young people, to deal with the crisis or better with the crises linked to climate change. By the way, I would like to remind you that at the time when many of us from the Opposition make us an outdated and boring criticism, our policy, what content does it have and what answers does it give us to this challenge? The emblematic policy of defoliation, plastics policies, institutional interventions to speed up the authorisation of RES, the arrangements which clearly define what is permitted and what is not in the NATURA areas, the consolidation and upgrading of the management body of protected areas, the incorporation of the Community directive on the energy efficiency of buildings, the national and regional plans for waste, the institutional intervention for the bazaars, the processing of which, until now, have been the result of the pavement and the electricity laws, are the ones that constitute the consistent plan of the Government of New Democracy, the Ministry, Mr Hatzidakis, it is our political response to the challenges posed by the climate crisis. It is the need to protect our natural wealth, it is the New Democracy's political response, the bet of bridge green development, sustainable development, by respecting and exploiting our natural resources. The criticism, inertia, inspirations on class and other things, completely unbelievable, outside the predictions, the provisions of the bills that we are voting on, but also the need for a modern environmental policy. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like you to allow me, by closing down a reference to a matter that is not so much linked to the bill we are discussing today, to be linked to the environment, but that is not the point. I am referring to the shocking, creepy, shocking revelations of the attempted interventions by the former Commissioner for Firefighting, who was appointed by the court for the Eye. I'll start backwards. We shall be discussing, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow in this Chamber, the conclusions of the parties on the case of Mr Papagelopoulos. At the same time, a revelation bucket is unfolding for a mechanism that the state, by means of a vehicle, sought to manipulate critical variables of public life and civilization, manipulate people. All this, of course, is very serious, unacceptable for every modern urban democracy, for every free society. Obviously, we cannot go beyond them, but on the other hand we must deal with them by measure and responsibility and demand justice, which itself is seriously injured in this history, to do its duty. However, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this all pales out in front of cynicism and the hybrid, perpetrated by the former Chief of the Fire Corps, if all that is revealed is true, blackmailing the expert. They were lost in Matti, ladies and gentlemen, hundreds of two people, and the instructions of the Greek state trusted the leadership of the Fire Corps to the expert, was - I read by the KATHMERIE of Sunday - "make it simple and let them pass you for puppy". Five things. Winds, fuel, mixing pine trees with houses, building unregulated and arbitrary, resulting in the fire within an hour to "go". Five things!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Economou, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u142	There are no words, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to describe the shame and anger I feel, not as a parliamentarian, but as a human being, and I think that the only path of atonement is the overall requirement of the political system for the absolute rendering of justice in this case. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, too. Mr Stamenitis from New Democracy has the floor, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Raptis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I would like to say that today is a good day for Europe and for Greece. The Union has made a brave decision to support countries with an important package. Our country is being won, returning from Brussels with EUR 72 billion, which Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, the Greek Government does not intend to waste, but to invest them. We have the opportunity to use a large financial instrument so that we can overcome the wounds that the unprecedented health crisis has left behind, but also to put our economy on a new development orbit. Greeks and Greeks have reason to optimize, because they now know that we have a government that will do the best for the country, as it has proved to be doing so far. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, to promote the electricity movement we are debating today, is a legislative initiative that looks at the era of clean energy in the field of transport. Often, speaking of electromobility, we think it is a matter that comes from the future. But let me say that this is a mistaken perspective. Electricity is now a living and present. It is a reality, which clearly has a look at a cleaner and greener future. But our country is here, unfortunately, quite late. New Democracy has been working on an integrated plan to promote green and pro-environmental policy, as well as on the ways in which electricity can be achieved in Greece. Today, by completing a year of the country's government, the Government and the Ministry of Environment and Energy, they are bringing to the vote in the House, a bill that aims to change the map of electricity movement in Greece. It is well known - it has also been said in the drafting of the bill in committee today - that as a country we are very back on the electric vehicle market, with their share in the total fleet of vehicles, which are circulated and registered, to touch only the very disappointing 0.33%. It is clear from the elements that we have in our hands and from the comparisons that we can make with other European countries or other countries outside the European Union, with a less developed economy than us, that in the electricity sector we have a very long distance to go and almost no time to waste. That is why it makes the reforms introduced by this draft law so necessary. In fact, the Legislative Initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is an ambitious effort to gain the lost ground and the country finally passes to the era of electric cars. Let us first look at the reasons why this should happen. First and foremost, it is the objective, which has been set globally and also at European Union level, to reduce emissions of pollutants, which has a direct and serious impact on air and the environment. Especially in Greece, transport accounts for 40% of energy consumption, with 96% of it being covered by oil derivatives. I think it is easy to consider the great negative contribution of vehicles, which are circulating in the country, to air pollution and to the burden of the environment. Secondly, the objective of the overall improvement of the quality of life of citizens and the defence of public health, particularly of urban residents. The circulation of conventional cars has a significant effect on people's health, first of all on the air burden we breathe, but also on the very high levels of noise they produce. The third reason why electricity is the economic and development part, where through the encouragement of private initiative, new jobs are expected to be created, but also to promote economic growth. Given all of these and the above elements, the purpose of this draft law is summarised in three axes: First, to provide incentives to make the market for electric vehicles more accessible and, consequently, more attractive. Secondly, the introduction of arrangements to achieve the development of a network of charging points across the territory, public and private, a point whose success, obviously, is a prerequisite for achieving the first objective. Thirdly, the creation of a regulatory framework within which the electricity market will function. The Legislative initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is the first organized legislative initiative in Greece, which will pave the way for the new era of electromobility. Ladies and gentlemen, although some voices have been heard during the debates, which are in fact hopeless attempts to make the bill simpler, it is simply to say that some are making opposition. The truth is that the bill before us relates to the whole society and not just a few, as has been said. Although some say that we are pursuing a class policy, we believe that the effort to improve the quality of life of citizens, to protect the air we breathe, to protect public health is, above all, a popular policy, not for many or few, but for us, for our children, for the next generation. Although some do not believe that the country can have an ambitious environmental agenda, which is implemented by the government and leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, they do prove otherwise in practice. It turns out to be the opposite to the environmental bill that we voted on in May on the regulations, on simplifying the licensing of renewable energy sources, on forest maps, on plastic bags, on the management of building bags, on categorisation of NATURA areas and the introduction of land uses, but also on the draft law we are debating today on electricity mobility, as well as on the one that comes in the case of disposable plastics, but also with the government's decision on degreasing. Really, what is your view on this matter? Here, is your position in plenary the same as your position in Kosani? You'll have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Stamenitis, don't open any more topics here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u146	I would therefore urge you, in my turn, to vote in favour of this draft law and to join in the great effort of the government so that Greece can make a total green turn. Finally, I should like to stress once again - it is good to remind you at every opportunity - that the government remains faithful to its commitments. It has a programme that follows it, which implements it - step by step, stage - for the benefit of the citizens and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. It must be understood - of course it is not Mr Stamenitis's fault - that we have many speakers, so we must keep the time. You know I give the opportunity. Mrs Rapt, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, will now take the floor and Mr Liupis will follow on behalf of the New Democracy. Mrs. Rapt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome the results of the Brussels Summit for our country and for the whole of Europe. I feel moved as a European citizen, because today Europe has shown that it can stand up to the circumstances. Europe is responding to the Krone crisis with a EUR 750 billion recovery fund and a budget for the next seven years, amounting to EUR 1.7 billion, thus showing that we have a common future of cooperation and solidarity in the states, despite the Cassandras who sought the opposite. However, I also feel proud as a Greek woman, because after a hard four-day negotiation of the Prime Minister and the Greek team, for the first time, our country is gaining access to such ambitious financial instruments. The Prime Minister returns today to Athens with a comprehensive package, which exceeds EUR 72 billion - an unprecedented size for the country - which the government will manage with responsibility and wisdom and not with the relentlessness of the newcomer, as the Prime Minister said. Its subsidies correspond to about an additional ESRB and the money will be disbursed in terms, which will be more flexible and we will have faster disbursements and retroactive eligibility from 2020 onwards. I am convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the government will work with responsibility, wisely and on the basis of a detailed plan for productive reconstruction and will transform the country from a deeper perspective over the next few years. That is why I want to congratulate the Prime Minister on this step. In relation to what has been heard now and saw the light of publicity following the revelations of the newspaper "Kathimerini" to manage the national tragedy in Matti by the government of SYRIZA, the following ones. First of all, the new elements of the litigation brought to light by “KATHMERINI” are creepy, while at the same time refer to situations that are unthinkable to a democratic state. However, and before that, it was evident from the very days of 2018 that the SYRIZA government attempted to disorientate public opinion from the crime committed. We cannot forget that at midnight of that same day, the then Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras, convened the firefighting at a communication meeting - parody, in which both he and the co-legislative ministers pretended that they knew nothing about the dead. And this, while the NSAV had already received the body of people and the National Health Operations Centre was demanding persistent sacks for dozens of bodies. The theatre continued a few days later, when the then Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Toskas at an extraordinary press conference said he was looking for mistakes and mistakes. And Mr. Poppas was looking for arsonists from nonexistent satellite photographs, which, of course, never saw the light of publicity. It was therefore obvious that the SYRIZA government has not recognised any responsibility and has been trying to cover it up. It had no awareness of the tragedy, its tragic manipulations, the acts and omissions of its ministers and the state mechanism in the fire that day. The fact that a few months later, while the Ministry of Citizen Protection had already taken over by Mrs Gerovas, the then chief of the Firefighting is alleged to exercise the expertise of this House, which had been designated by the judiciary, threats and, indeed, by obscene expressions, in order to cover the real guilty parties and not to blame the guilty of the government of SYRIZA, brings to the fore the pretext of para-state and conduct, involving officials who, even in underdeveloped countries, are inappropriate. And the mud, which SYRIZA is trying to throw with his announcement, that we've been spitting on human pain and distraction, has been overcome by the living reality. In my view, the party of Officerial Response, instead of turning against the newspaper that brought to light court documents, should seek first and foremost to uncover the truth as the President asked at the time, and obviously pretextably, claiming that he wished to shed plenty of light on the case. Mrs Gerovasili should have turned against the one who was allegedly using her name, that is to say, the then chief of firefighting, which was of course the choice of the SYRIZA government. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the hundreds of victims of the murderous fire in Eye are not a diversion, it is a national tragedy, for which the SYRIZA government has huge responsibilities, and it is necessary, as the Prime Minister pointed out, to clarify the new case of cover-up and to assume responsibility. We owe it primarily to the memory of the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill now because, as the President said earlier, we really have to stick to the provisions of the bill. This bill sets out clear rules for the development of electromobility in our country, as it was our programme commitment. Our party has always argued that the future of our country is fully linked to our ability to protect the unique natural and cultural environment, and that is why, already from the first days of governance, the Prime Minister, in his speech at the 74rd General Assembly of the United Nations, stressed that the economic growth of the 21st century can only go hand in hand with that active interest in protecting the environment, through the adoption of an energy policy to reduce emissions of pollutants, but also with the shift to renewable energy sources. In fact, the Prime Minister himself was committed to developing initiatives to protect our cultural heritage against the effects of adverse climatic conditions. In these policies, the bill comes in which the development of electricity mobility in our country as a new ecological way of moving significantly contributes to the decommissioning of fossil fuels, which we so much seek, to improving the air quality that we all breathe, and to strengthening the Government's efforts to achieve the Union's environmental impact targets for transport, including greenhouse gas emissions. It is true that our country has been considerably delayed in this area, since there have so far been no major steps in this direction. Indeed, as mentioned, the majority of the fleet travels with gasoline, while low-pollution vehicles do not exceed 0.3% of the total. We are obliged to speed up, which is why this bill comes and brings five major innovations. The first innovation involves providing incentives for the purchase of electric IX, two cycles and bicycles. It also provides an incentive for the creation of charging infrastructures, an integrated framework for the operation of the electricity market with a clearly defined role for the TENs and the rest of the institutions, with an active role for the public in the supply of electric cars. Of course, this bill also introduces development and tax incentives for the production of chargers, batteries and electric cars in lignite areas. Today, more than eleven Member States - Member States of the European Union and Greece provide a subsidy for the acquisition of electric cars and, with this bill, the government chooses to strengthen the electricity market by EUR 100 million through the Pollutant Fund for the period 2020-2021. This is how we establish a brave package of development and tax incentives concerning this market, the rental and use of electric vehicles, and the production of these vehicles, but also of the related species. These are incentives, which are expected to help to develop and precisely to penetrate low and zero pollutant vehicles within the country. As I have said before, this bill creates the conditions for the development of a new economy that will provide economic benefits and, of course, - the predicament - jobs through the development of private investment in high technology. This will be done for the creation and operation of the charging infrastructure network, for the provision of the relevant services and for the production of the electrical power supply chain goods. This draft law adopts the competitive market model in line with European standards for the development of these reloading infrastructures and the provision of electricity services and, of course, clearly defines the roles and obligations of the operators of this new market. The successful operation of such a development model requires the existence of a market control and surveillance mechanism and this supervision will be exercised by the Ministry of Environment and Energy in cooperation with the Energy Regulatory Authority. In relation to the areas of eastern Macedonia and the regional unity of Arcadia from where I come from, brave incentives are introduced for the installation of productive units in the chains of electricity movement. It is understandable that the choice of these two regions is purely with criteria to support the local economy and the labour market in the areas of this frustration. In particular, as defined in the bill, the tax rate for natural persons carrying out the business activity of producing electrical vehicles and goods or articles thereof is reduced by five percentage points, and for legal persons it is also reduced the rate of taxation for income obtained from this activity and for profits relating to that production. The aim is therefore to make these two areas of development, not only of the country, but also, if possible, of south-eastern Europe. The role of the State: The Greek State assumes its own role with a commitment that 25% of the new cars it will order will be mandatory electric power. At the same time, a corresponding project will be carried out in relation to electric buses in urban transport, as we incorporate European Directive 1161 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles into public procurement. The obligation is also laid down for municipalities to study and prepare the charging plans for electric vehicles within their administrative limits, by providing and spacing the areas of competence which will be called upon to develop these infrastructures and to operate them. It is important, as the Minister said, that during the consultation of the bill we were found to be interfering with the CED in this planning. Finally, the Electronic Register of Infrastructures and Market Operators is created to ensure the digital access of citizens to the public accessible points of charge, but also to provide the state with a digital tool precisely for supervising this market. In relation to the SYRIZA's allegations of classicity of this bill, I would like to stress that electricity is about all Greeks and not all Greeks or rich people, because it is undeniable that the reduction of air pollution benefits all of us and not just those who buy a car - I think that it is reasonable - that the protection of public health and cost savings caused by diseases, which are related to atmospheric pollution, obviously benefits all of us, and the encouragement of private initiative to create networks of charging infrastructure create jobs and economic growth throughout the country for the benefit of all Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago we closed a year ago since the Greek people ordered Kyriakos Mitsotakis to take over the country's rule. Within a year Greece has a completely different, upgraded image in the world and this is the result of hard work. Although we have been faced with very great challenges, economic, geopolitical, health, we have managed since yesterday, and even after the four-day negotiation made by the Prime Minister and the Greek team, to be allowed today to smile, as Greece will gradually return to its proper place in the European Union. In particular, as far as environmental policy is concerned, the Ministry of the Environment, as we had promised beforehand, proceeded and disarmed mines, as in the case of PPC, which the SYRIZA government had inherited, and launched plans for the elimination of disposable plastics for recycling and reafforestation. It also simplified environmental authorisations, while adopting the new European model for the management of protected NATURA areas in our country. In our view, therefore, these policies are great opportunities, and indeed opportunities, which are already being exploited for the development of the country, but with an ecological sign. We have already achieved our targets for 2020 for reducing greenhouse gases and we have set very ambitious further targets, such as the long-term common vision of a neutral climate Union by 2050. Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis, which has hit the country, together with the coronary crisis, but also the climate change crisis, invites us to think differently and to act differently. That is why I invite you all to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u149	Thank you. Mr. Lippes has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Kokalis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's decision to the summit is historic. Europe has proved itself united in the face of challenges. On the initiative of our Prime Minister, Greece will receive a significant financial support for the next six to seven years to help deal with the recession, but also contribute to development. Targeting green policies is the big bet for the next decades for Europe. Protecting the environment, protecting our health, quality of life, and life itself. According to data from the World Health Organisation, air pollution is responsible for four hundred thousand early deaths in Europe every year. Especially in Athens, more than 70% of emissions of nitrogen oxide come from transport. Greece has the oldest private vehicle fleet in Europe with an average age of sixteen. It is time the electromobility became part of the Greek economy. In Greece, the high prices of electric cars and the lack of an organised recharge system are factors preventing consumers from buying a power-driven vehicle. The bill accelerates the procedures for the authorisation of power-driven or related power-driven power-driven vehicles or goods. The counter-incentives, which are given to the market for old technology and polluting vehicles, are aimed at the market for electric motors. In particular, a special environmental fee of EUR 1 000 and EUR 3 000 is imposed on passenger and lorries for those of Euro 5 and Euro 4 respectively. At the same time, the introduction of the very old passenger cars of Euro 1, 2 and 3 technology is prohibited. Minister, at this point I would like to convey to you the strong concern, the discomfort of the owners of second-hand cars and spare parts stores, a sector which is affected and employs many workers. The imposition of the environmental charge in addition to the registration fee for Euro 5 vehicles, i.e. less used cars, creates a huge economic problem for these companies. I would suggest that the environmental charge should be gradually imposed or lower, until the dealers of second-hand goods are adapted to the new data. The fact is that the bill provides important tax incentives. It is not considered as an income from an employed person that the compensation received by the worker for travel costs, for the purpose of charging the vehicle, as is the granting of such a vehicle to him. Moreover, in the case of the purchase of a professional electric vehicle, the company has a 50% discount on its gross income and the electric car of up to EUR 50,000 is not counted at the annual objective cost. Degreeisation is the first major station on the way to rehabilitation of fossil fuel production and the shift to renewable energy sources. Of course, such a change in size will result in a drastic impact on the work and daily life of the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Arcadia. The bill includes incentives for companies producing electrical vehicles or goods related to them, such as batteries, to be created in these two regions and to create jobs. Natural and legal persons to deal with these enterprises are taxed at a reduced rate of five points. However, the most important is the exemption from employers' contributions for the construction period of the power plant related to electricity. The government seeks these regions to emerge in important development cities. The creation of a large public network of accessible recharge infrastructures is the big issue. The design is to cover the national roads with a complete reloading network by 2021. The municipalities will draw up a charging plan for electric vehicles. In the bill there is a special provision for stationary, parking and rechargeable spaces exclusively for electric cabs. The installation of parking spaces for motor vehicles is absolutely necessary. Finally, all new buildings from 2021 will be mandatory for the operation of a reloading point. Accordingly, the general government’s public and general government’s bodies are obliged by 1-1-2022 to set up reloading points if they have parking spaces. Of course, I do not agree with the designation of the bill as a classic. Having a less polluted environment is an objective that concerns all of us. No class discrimination hides behind this pursuit. Moreover, the bill itself now provides financial incentives in the form of subsidies. They will, of course, be determined by a ministerial decision to make the acquisition of a power-driven vehicle even more accessible and attractive. In just ten years from today, electric vehicles will have reached 30%. The change will really be decisive if we consider that an electric car saves in pollutants in one year as many as four flights from London to Barcelona. Today's bill confirms the government's commitment and firm commitment to the use of new technologies more physically friendly, always with a look in the future. in the future of our planet, in the future of the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mr. Kokalis has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA, followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas in half the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on today's bill comes at a very difficult time for our country. A little while ago Ankara announced research between Megistis and Crete and it is necessary as ever to draw up a national strategy for Turkey's provocativeness, a national strategy that will have our country as a protagonist and not a holocaust. Minister, early in the morning the news that our country and the Prime Minister have been coming with 70 billion. Since this morning it has been the news that this is a national triumph, that it is a national success. If the Prime Minister did secure 70 billion, not 30 or 32, of what was said in the previous days, then it is indeed a success, but a success and congratulations on political fraud. Two hours ago the Minister of Development, Mr Georgiadis, said: "We have 32 billion from the COVID fund, plus the new NRP, plus other European resources, is indeed a sum that exceeds 70 billion for the years 2021-2027." I would add here that the common agricultural policy for the years 2021 to 2027 is also included in the other European funds. But are you aware of what is advertised and advertised, that you have managed to secure much larger amounts proportionally than other countries? Is that possible? Oh, no. But the question is, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, whether this money, 30, 28 billion will be channelled into the real economy. But once you start so badly, because - let me say good - when a government does not tell the truth, it attempts to smuggle and adds money that our country would otherwise receive from other European resources, let me question the real intentions and real and productive plans to make use of this money so that they can be channelled to the real economy, to the workers and to the businesspeople. For the bill, Minister, I was not in a hurry to make a decision, to judge, when Mr Famellos spoke about the beneficiaries, the beneficiaries of electricity. Because, you know, many people are following this debate today and I and my colleagues have also received many questions from small and medium-sized businessmen, lawyers, doctors, farmers: 'Can I buy, help in a modern electric car?' And I heard Mr Famello, who said that there are only a thousand seven hundred fifty. At that time you said this announcement was a long time ago. I raised, Minister, and finally Mr Famelos is right. This announcement of the thousand seven hundred fifty days ago was a few days ago, on 5 June 2020, Environment Day, where you presented the draft law "Transfer to low-emission mobility, measures to promote and implement electricity mobility". Why do you hide it? You should say that “They are few of the beneficiaries. We can't do more. It does not concern the majority of the world." You can say it clearly. It would be honorable for you. On June 5th was the announcement. I conclude with the amendment by the SYRIZA Members for the free supply of electricity. If it is true - and it is not a factual one - that, unfortunately, it is a matter of fact, the social policy - you want, at stake, to put an end to it - is supposed - to be socially-intentioned policies, you must accept this amendment. What does the amendment say? That households that have been really affected, proven, by the pandemic, to be helped. In simple terms, to reconnect the current, to make a favourable adjustment of the debts. This also concerns entrepreneurs, including private employees, but also farmers. I think you should put yourself in this particular amendment. At least, if you reject it, discard it with a particular statement of reasons. That I reject it, I do not accept it because there is no surplus, I cannot go into such policies. We expect, Minister, your answer and your position on this amendment, which seeks to relieve thousands of households of thousands of people to deal with serious living problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u153	Mr Hetas, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor for six minutes. Unless it takes the time of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, thank you very much. You will allow me not to share the joy of the New Democracy colleagues for their very happyness, as they say, news they have come, because things are very serious and very critical, very critical. Maybe more than ever. We should therefore say in this Chamber that there is Turkish NAVTEX for seismic research within the limits of the Greek continent. For about an hour and a half, there has been an area in Kastelorizo, which the Turks have committed for research that starts from today until August 2! We are talking here about 'other words to be loved'. We've got the moment we're talking about aerial fights in Kastelorizo. The entire Greek Armed Forces has been placed on increased guard. I don't know if you know this because we're talking about the gift bags that the Prime Minister brought us into the new memorandum. The total Armed Forces is in increased custody. In twenty-four hours it is estimated that, at the moment, the 'ORUC REIS' has arrived at the point where we speak, in Kastelorizo. It's an expression that I hated from a child and there's no more irritating than that. But I'm going to say, we've been telling you. We told you, we told you, we told you, we told you. When will the Government of New Democracy decide? So there's going to be a war first to convene political leaders? Don't you understand that with secret diplomacy you can't do hail? Things are serious. When will you call political leaders? Convening political leaders! We have to have a common line. We have NAVTEX, Minister, we have a Turkish invasion a few hours after the end of the summit. That's not happening. Yeah, but we've all predicted that, and we've told it. And we are expecting, with a policy of resentment, 'of all things'. Your purpose was communal. "Let's change the agenda. It's done with St. Sophia. Let's change the agenda. Let's go get some for NoVARTIS. Let's go get intercepts. Let's go, Matty. That's serious, too. But here, it's very serious. Unfortunately, we're in five to get involved. Things are very serious. We still react to the Turks. A reaction, a countermeasure. Something to do, apart from waiting for our European allies. Something, something, something. The Turks who -- the simplest thing I'll tell you, to hear in here -- leave nothing to fall down. A global platform, such as 'NETFLIX', to understand - and I will return to these very critical issues - because it has films in it with homosexuals, the Turks asked to undo it. The Turks, who are talking about hagiographies and prostitutes in Agia Sophia - have seen what has been released - are not tolerated by anyone themselves to insult their own beliefs, nor by NETFLIX, which is playing a game of billions. They therefore forced NETFLIX to undo films starring homosexuals. Our question, of the Greek Solution on 17-1-2020, about an insulting film of "NETFLIX" presenting Jesus Christ as a homosexual on the one hand never answered, and on the other, "NETFLIX" never downloaded it. There you will understand from the little ones the important ones. For the last thirty-five days, large fishing vessels, which have dragged up, have surrounded Chios and Lesvos. Thirty-five vessels. Do you understand? And it's not just the "fishery", it's not just illegal immigrants - ninety came to Lesvos yesterday - but all this ends in the EOZ. Take countermeasures. We've been through this too many times. Listen to us once. You should probably have heard us, not so fearful. Because the game now seems to be leaving our hands. Listen to us, as you heard us when you sent Evros the armoured that we had confiscated and rusted in the Piraeus warehouses. Listen to us and now that we're asking you for the Canadians of the army, who rot and are ready for withdrawal, to give them to the national guards at Evros. We met yesterday at a pivotal stage and we were asked to convey the request, Minister, to take the rotting Canadians. We have asked relevant questions too. We haven't received any answers. Listen to us, as you heard us about the Super Puma mentioned the day before yesterday by the President of the Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, that of the five, only the two are being used. Since 2013 they have been sitting there rotting. Listen to us about the integrated study we have presented and submitted to the Greek Parliament for the transfer of illegal immigrants to uninhabited islands. Listen to us, listen to us, listen, because it is for the sake of what we are saying with our proposals. Listen, we warned all tons that the non-existence of any announcement or sanctions against Turkey would lighten the green light for invasion. The nation together - because it is time crucial - should stand across - the nation as a whole! - any attempt to violate our national sovereignty. We now call on the Greek Solution to immediately stop the divide, Minister, the climate of polarization. We'll all be judged by history. It's time for us all to stand up to circumstances. The moments are critical. It is not time for small decisions or for small politicians. It's time for a spirit of conscientiousness. Our thoughts and prayers are currently accompanying our Armed Forces, who are on increased guard. All, Navy, Air Force and Army. All of them! And we're getting out of here. I cannot be happy to make a comment - for the 70 billion. We heard the colleague of the New Democracy "The Prime Minister came with 70 billion. Unbelievable. We're saved." No one in the world says that 'welcome the Memorandum', to paraphrase 'welcome the dollar'. One more memorial is here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As much as you celebrate with the mass media - one, two more minutes and I shall end, Mr President, thank you - it will never appear in society to be mirrored up, to reflect. It's a new memorandum. There will be new loans. We're flying a number like that for impress, and we're hiding the substance. The point is, unfortunately, that new loans have come, that poverty, poverty, and poverty are coming. Already in the first half of 2020, we have 11 billion deficits in the budget, as Kyriakos Velopoulos said. We're losing another 10 billion of tourism. By the end of the year, we will have a deficit of EUR 9 to 11 billion. We will therefore have a deficit of 30 billion in one year. We're gonna take 32, and how are we gonna get them? After we borrow and get the bonuses after. And I'm closing up with something very important. The worst enemy of the Greek is Greek. There's no worse enemy, you know. And I'm talking to Matty. Two years after the dialogues we hear - incredible things! - reveal a state acting as a mafia, a state acting as a blackmailer, without accounting for the wrongful lives. So we're setting up a mob fair on bodies. But for the crime in Matty, no one has ever taken responsibility! The Greek Solution says: No immunity in politics. It is incomprehensible to give immunity to politics. That is why we have tabled a proposal for a committee of inquiry to give criminal responsibilities to those involved. And we are proud that Antonis Mylonakis was the only MP who was found the other day in the two years in Matti. Only the Greek solution was there. He was the only MEP who represented the Greek Parliament and the Greek Solution. They are hundreds of two wrongful souls in the memory of which you are still erecting today with supposedly confrontation that only aims to cover up the truth. Always remember something: These souls ask for justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u155	Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs Vetta follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first of all that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has listened to the agonizing effort he has made to deceive and tarnish the work of our Government in the year that we are in the country. His opposition otter, unfortunately, for him, fortunately for the country, coincided with a very great success of our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. In any case, there are 70 billion euros to come to our country in the next few years, 2021-2027 and of course they have nothing to do with a memorandum. 19.5 billion is grants, 12.5 billion is loans and 40 billion is the multiannual financial framework. It is 70 billion at the disposal of our government, because we will be government by then, no matter how much you do not want it. It is 70 billion at the disposal of the Greeks and Greeks. Of course, the SYRIZA Government spokesman also heard for another reason, because he tried to tarnish a period when our country has raised its stature internationally through the excellent treatment of pandemic and is considered one of the most secure countries in the world through the excellent management of this pandemic. And do you know what was the secret of success, SYRIZA colleagues? That our government, political leadership, trusted scientists, which you have never done. I would like to remind the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who is not in the Chamber at the moment, that when the plans for the management of water resources in Thessaly were discussed, the scientific committee who drafted these drafts on the substance of the plan denounced the Government at the time that it imposed on her to remove from the management plans the transport of water from the upper edge of Acheloos to Thessaly. So SYRIZA may speak of reintroducing Acheloos to the agenda and to the debate, but in essence the possibility of transporting the water from the upper range of Achelous to Thessaly with political direction, with political intervention to the scientific potential was removed. Our government is never aware of doing so and will never do so. And that is why, listening to health scientists, he reacted in the best possible way to pandemic and brought that result. I should like to point out here that this pandemic has also brought about significant changes in the environment. In the case of Lockdown, on the substance of the car traffic ban, we have had a significant reduction in air pollution. This means that conventional use of engines bears an extremely important and unpleasant burden on the environment. I also heard SYRIZA's special employer claim that the electricity supply in our country was zero. But, of course, it's at zero, because as a government you did nothing, despite the fact that you said that electricity mobilization is a priority for SYRIZA. If it was a priority, you'd have done something. But you said, and I carry exactly what you said that the electricity supply in our country is at zero. Unless you mean otherwise. We, therefore, because we believe in electromobility, because we are just a pro-environmental government, you see that in the year of our governance with a bill that is extremely important, extremely pioneering, following the electricity movement in our country. I heard a party leader wondering who the electrical drive is finally convenient. First of all, the environment. We announced it before. From the fact that cars were not released during the lockdown period, we proved to have a reduction in pollutants. Secondly, the citizens who will use electricity by greatly reducing their travel costs. Thirdly, the national economy, because you will to a large extent depend on imported oil all this process, which has even been unstable. And because our plan also provides for an excellent development of renewable energy sources, you can see how important the impact on the national economy will be. Finally, another very important effect of this bill will be on public health. I say this because the World Health Organisation reports about eight and a half thousand deaths in our country because of air pollution. So what more criteria and arguments are needed to call for the bill that the Minister brings today for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, the national transition plan for electricity is one of the main pillars of our Government's environmental perception. It has also been stated by our Prime Minister. At the same time, however, it is also a holistic project, because it involves the central government, local government, the region, the market in all its appearances, society and of course it affects the quality of life of citizens in that country. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for our Greece to enter another modern and technologically advanced era, both in the moves and in the energy mix. We have the will, we have the will, and we have the way to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, may I have a minute's speech on an observation made by my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u158	You have thirty seconds to say exactly what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I am not going to place myself on what my colleague said in relation to the question of electromobility and what we say as SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance. He probably didn't understand well. I would like to express my concern, rather my question, that both the House and the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on the Environment are returning to the issue of the Acheloos diversion. Issues which are unsolved and with decisions of the S.H.E. They're back. Indeed, today I was surprised - and I do not know if I heard it correctly, Mr President - that some scholars said that they were forced to make some changes in the studies, etc. I am very sorry, although on these issues the logic of the pressures that we have been experiencing lately at all levels, as regards our party, SYRIZA, is beginning to become normal. I wanted to make this comment. Late issues cannot be brought back, because they have been resolved by the EBRD. and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Kotso, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u162	He told me I didn't understand well. I don't have a reduced perception. And I understand my Greeks are very well. What I said, unless he said otherwise, he meant it. For Achelous undeniable witnesses of what I said are the scholars themselves. Let's go over there. Let's ask the former special secretary, Mr. Galouris and Mr. Famelos, and you'll see that I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u163	Good. The matter is closed. I don't want to open it either. It is common that some Members of Thessaly are still talking, despite the fact that the issue has been resolved, about the diversion of Acheloos and the Members of Atolokarnania...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u164	That is the end of this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u165	That is the end of this matter. We're sitting here talking now. It's okay. But everyone has a right to say it. Mrs Vetta has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA and then Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy on the promotion of electromobility is on the same legislative axis as government initiatives to date. Minimum benefits for many, significant profits for few and strong communication storm to hide the lack of serious content. As it emerged from the discussions in the committees, the aim of the Ministry was to change the agenda to promote a green profile for the government. I would remind you that the incentives for electricity were presented in a moment only a few days after the adoption of an environmental abstention law, which abolishes the management bodies of the protected areas, and promotes the licensing of building activities within NATURA areas. As you will also remember, the bill for modernising environmental legislation, as you said it, was condemned by the vast majority of management bodies and environmental organisations. At the same time, the forest maps were effectively abolished last week, while only a few days ago the Prime Minister himself claimed that a good solution to defend forests was their construction. This is the environmental policy of the New Democracy, without even going back to earlier statements by your representatives and officials. So what is today presented in plenary for vote? A draft clipboard, with hidden points, with no guaranteed funding and no substantial interest to the general public. It is rough, because as you yourself have announced, you have not implemented the plan for electromobility by setting up an Interministerial Committee. In fact, the Minister responsible for issuing a draft prerequisite for the bill is retrospectively authorized. It's a perfect smuggling here, too. It is also rough because it does not deal with many issues, the charging points, the means of fixed tracks and the means of public transport in general, and the area of sustainable urban mobility and access to bicycles and HEIs is not reformed. In support of what our Parliamentary spokesman said before, Mr Famelos, I would like to present the letter from the RESEMA, the National Disability Confederation, with concrete proposals for the bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The bill, as I said, has hidden points, as prices of second-hand new technology increase, unfair competition in the IX market are introduced, while discrimination is being introduced against medium-sized and medium-sized professionals and traders. It has not been provided with funding, as the funds provided for -100 million for 2020-2021 - relate to 6% of greenhouse gas trading rights, that is to say, without State aid. Even so, reasonable questions are being created, as it is very likely that money will be used from codes intended to save buildings, which is extremely problematic about the viability of this initiative. It is a bill addressed to few beneficiaries, as it concerns a few IX cars premium - a thousand seven hundred initially said, we still do not know how much it will be in the end - while the five thousand-dollar discount concerns only a few who have the possibility of filling up the large amount for the purchase of expensive electric cars. It is understood from the above that the bill is communication, vague and short-sighted, while any positive forecasts are actually cancelled by their sloppy implementation that creates problems instead of solving them. Before I continue, I would like to invite you to vote in favour of the amendment we tabled for the free supply of electricity, the inclusion in the social invoice and the payment arrangements for households who have suffered a reduction in income due to the pandemic. It is a question of solidarity, survival and prevention of the new humanitarian crisis that we may be experiencing soon. Finally, I would like to make a special reference to the articles on the special provisions on Western Macedonia, that is to say Articles 4 and 10. Priority is given to the issue of electricity-related production permits, while the latter gives incentives to depreciate tax rates and to strengthen jobs. Let's see if there's a real challenge to these two provisions overcoming the title. The existing lignite plants will be closed in 2023, and there is no programming for the unit Ptolemais 5. We know when it's going to close -- in 2028 -- we don't know when it's going to start. Estimates of PPC's participation in the area's generated GDP - from where I am - reach 40% to 45%. At the same time, jobs - directly and indirectly - are approaching forty thousand. So you will agree with me that the triumphs are at least miserable, as on the one hand we have sudden and violent death of the largest production unit in the country and on the other some motives that may attract some entrepreneurs to gain from its debris. It requires a great deal of arrogance and pre-emption to celebrate this provision, but also, in general, violent frustration. Unfortunately, we have seen this even from the lips of the Prime Minister. Finally, I would remind those who believe that the government has a plan for Western Macedonia that in the development bill we had tabled a special amendment for the integration of regions affected by the deflation of a special tax and development regime, which the government rejected. Here I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a very bad development at the last minute, as, following the negotiations at the European Union Council, the budget for the fair transition fund is cut by EUR 22.5 billion. This means that Europe-wide the total budget for grants actions related to liberation through this fund is a total of EUR 10 billion of EUR 32.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u167	Mrs. Vetta, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u168	Your tolerance for a moment, Mr President, because I am saying something at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u169	I've shown her anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u170	Unfortunately, with these developments, Western Macedonia will take little money, much less than what you announced just last week in the committee. Taking into account the fact that countries that do not commit to achieving the climate neutrality targets, such as Poland and the Czech Republic, will not be punished with reduced funding, then it is clear that the failed Greek negotiation has taken the case of a fair transition far behind. After these developments without sufficient funding it is time to review these plans and the timetable above all and to respect the lives and future of these people in western Macedonia. Stop the mistake before it's too late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u171	Mrs. Vetta, you need to finish. You've been over your time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. As for the proposal by the Minister, who has left, to visit western Macedonia, I would very much like us to go together in the streets of Ptolemais and Kozani and ask about everything you are planning for them without them and to see their opinion, because the last time I remind you of where the Minister came from and you, you had entered the back door in that fiasco you were doing, the day, while at the front we were eating the chemicals from the MATs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u173	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u174	No, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u175	Good. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u176	The Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor and then Mr Kavvada from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the positions on a historic day after the Council's decision on a brave decision by the European Union to support countries and all the rest of Greece and the 70 billion, which the Prime Minister brings back to his suitcases. But this agreement, anti-grassroots, barbaric and classic, is nothing but a temporary compromise within the European Union, which cannot cover the contradictions and competition within the European Union. This Council agreement makes it a short joke that the European Union is a European Union of solidarity, it breaks down the novels about a new European Union that SYRIZA gave us the previous time, about a European Union that is changing. After all, the strongest dialogue that took place in the Council on these four days was about which groups will win these packages of the Development Fund and the framework of the new NSRF, if the German groups, the North European business groups or the business groups of the South, Spain, France, Italy, are going to get more money than those programmes of the digital economy, the so-called green economy. On the contrary, there was a consensus that breaks bones and the unanimity which existed and was not called into question by anyone was in the event of the demolition of whatever rights still exist in the labour market throughout the European Union. There was unanimity in the fact that the anti-grass attack, which accompanies the disbursement of these billions will be even more escalating in the next period. So, then, the new memorials that the Council's decision is hampering have as the starting point the European semester and the budgetary objectives temporarily suspended, but also the new reform package, which is aimed at increasing flexibility in the labour market, the capitalisation of the insurance system, the acceleration of privatisation and the marketing of social sectors, for example, health. After all, this should also illustrate the development plan. This is why the Pissaridis Committee is headed by Mr. Pissaridis was particularly revealing in matters relating to the labour market and the insurance system. Through this decision, the only ones who are won are the one-stop clubs, which, in fact, are double-win. On the one hand, they will have a huge funding and, on the other hand, they guarantee them through the promotion of reforms a much cheaper, more flexible and without the right to work. On the other hand, twice as lost people come out of the European Union and double out because the conditions for satisfying their needs are worsening because of demolition of rights, collective and individual, but also because the final recipient of the EUR 1,75 trillion account will be Europe's own peoples, through increased taxation, through the reduction of social costs in health, education, welfare, at the same time, which are becoming more and more challenging tax and tax exemptions for big capital, with the result that these anti-gravures, which mark legislative acts for the management of pandemic, are here to stay. After all, today's bill is part of this in the context of the fact that a key element of European policy, of the European Union's policy, is the green agenda, not because the pain to protect the environment has caught them. After all, the European Union is involved in imperialistic attacks and interventions in the region, but the fact that, through this process, funds are being destroyed, which are invested in what some call the exploitation and use of dirty energy, whether they are goods or infrastructures, and the replacement of those which will use so-called clean energy in a hopeless attempt to create profitable outlets for overcompensated funds, which they are ponding, in other words to support the profitability of business groups and not for the environment. Besides, the Minister, speaking this morning, was particularly revealing, highlighting two of the basic elements of the government's green agenda. One is defoliation, a common goal with SYRIZA, which leads to thousands of jobs being lost in the region of western Macedonia and also in the Peloponnese, leading to energy dependence, because it is precisely because it will replace lignite as a transitional fuel natural gas that is an imported fuel, it will be much more expensive for the people and at the same time will shape in these areas in new economic zones, where in substance new provocative privileges will be provided for business groups and even cheaper labour. In fact, SYRIZA is causing the government to take other measures, as the previous SYRIZA spokesman pointed out, to give new tax and development incentives to the business groups that will be active in the remote regions, in the areas of liberation. But this whole process seems to be serving who. From this point of view, your interest is not related to environmental protection, but it is precisely about how this mixture will be replaced by new investments in renewable energy, which leads to the deterioration of the environment through the unregulated placement of huge wind farms and the change in the nature of the environment. From this point of view, if you were interested in renewable energy sources to protect the environment, you would have paid particular attention to the issues of hydroelectric projects which also produce renewable energy but also enrich the water supply. On the other hand, the government's great interest in environmental protection, which is related to the second pillar of the Government's green agenda, the management of waste. In a recent visit by the Secretary-General of the Environment in the Tripoli area, he indicated the logic of the proposal for a waste treatment plant via PPP - that is to say, commercialisation of waste management - with the well-known carcinogenic method of combustion in the area where the operation of the Megalopolis lignite plants will be stopped. So this vicious circle reveals your hypocritical interest in the environment. So what protection of the environment can we talk about when you, like the previous ones, hand over the mountains, the forests, the shores and the seaside to exploit themselves with business criteria, altering their nature, preventing free access to those of the people's strata and families? So your electricity bill also anticipates economic zones in the defoliation areas but does nothing but incentives to replace the fleet of cars with electric cars. It provides incentives to business groups and automotive industries that produce electric cars which are very expensive. Really, who's going to be able to get an electric car, whatever motive you give? The new EUR 300 will be able to take an electric car? Or the 500 euro pensioner? No interest in the problems and needs of the people's strata for moving which will be cheap and which will protect the environment. Besides, the public transport fleet is outdated. It is both the responsibility and the choice of today and the previous government. Throughout this picture we have to add another picture. With vision and starting from the protection and support of the interests of business groups, the simultaneous promotion of the demand of the Greek ruling class for the participation of the Greek business groups in the playground made by the peoples of the region, involving our country more and more in the imperialist designs. This involvement is exactly what demolishes Turkey and leads to even greater aggression on its part. Through this process Turkey is redeeming the hypocritical attitude of the United States of NATO and the European Union. The latest episode of aggression is nothing but NAVTEX issued by Turkey a few hours ago for surveys south of Kastelorizo. So we are clearly saying that all these developments in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean region, Turkey's aggression and the role of the Americans and NATO who are dismantling this aggression, are nothing but the pretext to implement the dangerous designs in the region for the collection of the deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Aegean Sea under the American naval seal to the detriment of our country's sovereign rights, to the detriment of the peoples. This is exactly the common strategy of satisfying the interests of business groups on the one hand and geostrategic upgrades on the other hand that you have in New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, you are trying to cover it up either with all these odors that have emerged in recent times, whether they are about the 'NOVARTIS scandal' or about the tragedy in Matti. Not only has the causes of this tragedy emerged, but at the same time, dozens of families are forced to live outside their homes without restoring the enormous damage to housing and the environment in the region. From this point of view, therefore, the attitude of the K.C.E. is also evident. in this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Mr. Gikalayas. We just need to tighten up the time. I mean, at least six minutes in six and a half minutes. And of course you can speak from your position. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with a reference to the results of the European Union summit that opens new and prosperous prospects in our economy. In the next six years Greece has been called upon to make use of EUR 72 billion to put its economy on a path of high and sustainable growth. For the first time, too, the European Union is borrowing on behalf of the Member States and that is undoubtedly a good thing. Those seeking dragons and memorials will be disappointed. The EUR 72 billion package is not linked to budgetary measures and conditions. From tomorrow, the government begins preparing for productive use and for the benefit of all Greeks the EUR 72 billion in the direction of our productive reconstruction. Besides, the bill that comes for discussion and vote today has a strong environmental and development dimension. Greece acquires a modern and integrated framework for electricitymobilisation with brave incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles, with a strong development print since the acquisition and use of electric vehicles creates great prospects for growth not only for the marketing sector but also for the production line. And, of course, the shift in electricity supply contributes towards sustainable development and sustainability, i.e. growth with a social and environmental mark. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains incentives that are not limited to the electricity market. They extend to the creation of components production lines in our country by reducing taxes and reduced employers' contributions for those companies that decide to develop in our country units for the construction of chargers, transformers, batteries and parts associated with the supply chain of electricity. It is very important that these incentives should be given for the establishment of these units in lignite areas to create new jobs and support the local economy. At the same time, the package of measures to strengthen the electricity market, which in the first instance amounts to EUR 100 million, is being activated. This is only the beginning since there will be European funds in the next period to support the expansion of electricity. Incentives are actually being created for the purchase of electric cars, cycles and bicycles that reach 20% of the value of the car, with a ceiling of 6,000 euros, 20% of the value of the twin and 40% of the value of the bicycle. It is estimated that a 30% reduction in the price of a power-driven car will now be close to market factors. Many, of course, notice that electric vehicles are still more expensive than conventional vehicles. In fact, though, if you see the reduced cost of using and maintaining a power-driven vehicle, the benefits are far more in time. For example, the cost of using and maintaining electric cars in relation to conventional cars is reduced by 80%. There are no traffic charges and they are not counted as a living presumption if they cost up to EUR 50,000. Maintenance costs are lower. On average, each service costs 100 euros, while for a contract it costs 350-400 euros. The cost of moving is much lower. For ten thousand kilometres it is only 420 euros when a conventional vehicle for the same distance needs fuel worth 1,200 euros. Of course, the use of electric vehicles has huge benefits for the environment. The World Health Organisation, ladies and gentlemen, considers that eight and a half thousand of our fellow citizens are losing their lives from health problems caused by air pollution. 25% of carbon dioxide emissions in our country are due to transport. Transport also consumes 40% of our country's energy with 96% fuel oil. We therefore need to reduce the energy and environmental impact of transport, which will be done by electricity. In addition, the draft law also activated an integrated design for the development of charging infrastructures that are necessary. In addition to the commitment of undertakings marketing electric vehicles to create a thousand two-tier charging points by 2021, the bill provides for the implementation of an electric vehicle charging plan for large municipalities by March 2021, but also for small municipalities by March 2022, in order to have the maximum geographical coverage with charging infrastructure. At the same time, there will be flexible and simplified procedures for installing private charging points across all categories of buildings and, in particular, in apartments. It is also a given fact that the public itself should give another model of behaviour on the adoption of an ecological way of moving. That is why we have been very pleased to see provisions on the mandatory quota of electric vehicles included by the public of 25%, but also on the purchase of electric buses for urban transport included in the bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Incentives are also being created to renew the older fleet of taxi by electric vehicles, while provision is made for the creation of stop and taxi parking areas, where charging infrastructure will be installed. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not intend to refer to the sterile and petty criticism of the bill from the point of view of Officerial Opposition. It is only enough to note that the euphemism of the SYRIZA of the left and the ecology is contrary to any attempt to develop green. Four and a half years that was government did absolutely nothing to promote electricity. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] The bill is a projection in the future. It was a commitment we made to do it. It creates a new market, creates the conditions to develop a new sector of the economy through a productive and commercial activity. Thus, it provides perspective for the activation of a new development and productive model of the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening! Until the Step is ready, I would like to inform the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member. Mr. Zisesis Gikalaya from Kastoria now has the floor. Me or with Lefkada I'll start or with Lefkada I'll finish. Here, Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today has started with a great success for Greece and especially for our national economy. After almost five days of consultation at the European Union Council, the results are very encouraging. In this was the increased credibility of our country and our government and, in particular, the personal authority of the Prime Minister, things that have been systematically acquired in the last year of New Democracy's governance. Let us consider these results as a positive testament, as a weapon to the threats and challenges that are being removed at the eastern border of our country, which we must face unitedly and determinedly, with wisdom and cooling, but also with declared determination to defend our country's sovereign rights. The government, faithful to our programme commitments, brings this bill on electric car power, which, in order for it to succeed, should be attractive to use the electric car. That's why they need motives. There must be charging networks throughout the territory and a framework of operation must be established. The incentives are aimed at reducing the cost of purchasing and long-term rental, while in the next few days we are building the 'KINUMI ELECTRIC' action, in accordance with Article 44. From 1 January 2021 we introduce free parking and provide for four tax incentives: the deduction from taxable income for the purchase, lease, etc., the increased depreciation rate for fixed assets, the fact that the use of corporate electricity is not a taxable income and that it is excluded from the annual objective expenditure. Since I am adjourned in a defoliation area, I would like to say that it is particularly important to introduce tax incentives for the installation of production units, because there is a exemption for employers' contributions. The environmental ending is important. In order to achieve a reduction in the fleet of old cars, we are forbidden to import old cars over fifteen years. For what is 12 to 15 years old, there is a fee of 3,000 euros and 1000 euros for what is of the value of 8,000 to 10,000 euros. Many things are aimed at ensuring the market and charging infrastructure. We are strengthening investment initiatives, and there is the State's supervisory role with digital governance. We're taking care of safe operation of charging infrastructures and battery management framework. There is transparency in prices and charges. The electronic register and the digital access of citizens are also very important. Municipalities have been obliged to set charging positions since March 2021, while for the smaller municipalities they go later in 2022. It is not mandatory to take a small-scale licence for rechargeable points. In general, there are safe installation, personnel certification and battery management rules. We contribute to the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles in all public procurement. These are done by incorporating European Directive 1161. Since August 2021, all contracting authorities have been required to supply light and heavy vehicles. In general, there are provision for a minimum fixed percentage of clean vehicles. As far as award criteria are concerned, it is not only the lowest price for us, but the participation of a percentage of clean vehicles in the fleet is also taken into account. Thus, there is the possibility for the block exemption authority of participants if they do not have a percentage of clean vehicles. In general, in this draft law on electricity mobilisation that we will bring forward and succeed, the electric car is important, because it does not produce pollutants, reduces noise, decibels of noise. Greece is in the twelfth place of the European Union and it grants electricity to 100 million euros. That's not, as the Left says, classic. I could say that it is dictatorial, because new jobs are being created and we succeed in avoiding, limiting the effects on health. And that is very important and concerns all citizens. Charging infrastructure is created on the basis of a competitive model. There must be a correlation on the one hand, convergence, a golden cut in quality services with low prices. A number of points are made through a mechanism for control and market surveillance. This will ensure greater geographical and population coverage. The Ministry of Energy provides know-how through Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, SBAK. Local Government agencies may raise resources from the Green Fund. There are obligations to protect the consumer, safety of infrastructure, transparency of operation. Since 2021, all new buildings will have mandatory electric car charging infrastructure, while existing buildings will be required for this in three years. Especially for professional use, any citizen can make a charging location in his building, provided that he informs the building manager a month ago. As I said, no license is required for chargers. This is very important. The entire bill shows that there is a national plan as a monitoring tool, either by counting electric vehicles per year, the number of loading points and the reduction of pollutants. Finally, Mr President, I will conclude by saying that in the last four months we have been dealing with the health crisis, the coronary and the great consequences it has on public health. I must say once again that the coronary is here and we must continue to take action and we are doing very well. However, today's bill also relates to public health, because it also relates to road transport, to the reduction of ozone, to nitrogen monoxide and dioxide, to particulate matter and noise pollution. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Jekalaya. That you're from Castoria, but that you're from my New Democracy, and I'm saying it now. Mrs Anastasia Gara is now being called to Stepma by SYRIZA and Exact Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, I cannot at this moment hide my concern, like my fellow citizens, about Turkey's moves and increasing aggression and challenge. Let us hope for coolness and good power for those who are called to defend our sovereign rights and expect official information in this House too from the government and from those responsible. Nor can I refer to the Intergroup Committee on Thrace, as its recommendation was formally announced here today. It is a proposal that we in the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance are listening with particular interest, but we also have our reservations about the purpose promoted by this committee. We believe that the establishment of the committee is another communication prestige on the part of the New Democracy, with a false and hypocritical interest in Thrace. The paradox that is happening, for example, is that the Prime Minister's proposal to set up this committee says there will be a debate on how to use European financial instruments. If this proposal is honest, we wonder why not all of the region of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, a region that also manages financial tools and programmes for the whole region, I also wonder what development we can discuss and take part in New Democracy, when the port of Alexandroupolis is privatised, a port of national and geostrategic importance, and even at this time when you have stopped all the major running projects in Thrace, when you have disappeared even the trains from our region, when you are carved, the Minister of the Environment, with the golden ones to destroy the environment and the wealth of Thrace, when you have ruled out the entire region from tourist current. This and much more happened within a year, because in the past the policies of the New Democracy were particularly disastrous for Thrace, leaving hundreds of shells, high unemployment - which SYRIZA has thrown ten units - desertification, migration, underdevelopment, debris. We, as a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, are in favour of an essential debate on development, security and democracy in our region. However, this debate, ladies and gentlemen, cannot take place in closed rooms, outside society, away from the citizens, the protagonists of life, the protagonists of production, the protagonists of development in Thrace. That is why we, as a SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, held our regional conference two years ago, with rich and productive dialogue, with the Thraces and Thracian women present and present. We developed a Regional Reconstruction Plan, while we strengthened the country's geopolitical position in relation to the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean with a focus on Thrace and its conversion to an energy, commercial, transit centre. Thrace needs a coherent plan of sustainable and fair development, a plan and policies that will exploit the comparative advantages of the region, extroversion, productive potential, multicultural wealth, monuments and history. Ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens, unfortunately, have had great hollow words and communication figurines. They need real solutions to accumulated problems. They need development and democratic intervention. They're claiming our territory to take the place she deserves. It is an opportunity to discuss this in committee. In this committee, we will all present our past few years' experience and our proposals, but also our different approaches for a better life and development in Thrace. Now, as far as this bill is concerned, I met it: 'Promoting electromobility'. I also met nice, large, green positive expressions. At the same time, however, I also met with the agonizing effort of the government and Mr Hatzidakis to present a false-purpose environmental profile, a pro-environmental profile which is far too far away and is not accompanied by an environmental policy. Some time ago, you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, voted for an environmentally friendly law, with all environmental organisations and active citizens being directly opposed. You abolished the management bodies of protected areas, holding scientist workers hostage. You have exempted from the licensing requirement of companies operating heavy mining activities. You abolished the energy communities. Empty large wind turbine parks. You facilitated the licensing of the gold mines. You abolished the forest maps. You abolished all active nature protection and management policies. Your achievements, of course, do not stop here, after you have increased PPC's tariffs for consumers, you create Golden Boys with thick wages, you have pushed thousands of average voltage customers from PPC, you have circumvented PPC's charges on hiring staff, you have even abolished collective contracts. At the same time, however, society is tightening up, Ministers. Our fellow citizens live within the limits of poverty. Power cuts in poor households came back after several years. You leave the citizens unprotected. You haven't even taken measures in the quarantine. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the face of your indifference, therefore, we are presenting today as SYRIZA - I would like your tolerance, Mr President - an amendment concerning the reunification fund for vulnerable social groups and households affected. We ask you and we invite you to act immediately, as you have not even adopted the relevant Joint Ministerial Decision. Your indifference and policy, unfortunately, are criminal. In this gloomy context, then, you bring in a fragmentary and superficial communication, I would say, a bill on electromobility, let us blur the waters of your anti-environment policy, a bill aimed at the few privileged with a large wallet. It's not about the average citizen. It is not for the majority of users as it does not withstand the high cost. At the same time, Article 5 introduces unfair competition by modifying the automobile market and by leading to price increases for used new technology. They noted it, mentioned it, and are opposed and MPs from the New Democracy Party. You are also giving no incentive to withdrawing and renewing the IX fleet and of course you are planning nothing to renew the civil transport fleet. It is also important to point out that the charging networks are planned to be implemented by private investors, since the studies are launched by the municipalities. What if the investment isn't profitable to the private? Then remote regions such as Evros, remote regions will be excluded from the charging and electricity networks. We have pointed out to you that energy networks and large infrastructures in the country should be under public control. As a result of all that I have said, air pollution, the exclusion of citizens and regions and the strengthening of inequalities. So do you insist that you call this bill environmentally and non-classical when the government biasedly legislates and premiums domestic elites, strengthens specific market players, when you legislate for the few, when the real economy, production and world of work are piling up? Mr President, turn to an inclusive electromobility without inequality for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u184	And we thank Mrs. Gara. We continue with Mrs. Dounia Panayota from New Democracy and Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our lives depend directly on the natural environment and what this offers us. Water, oxygen, flora are key elements without which man cannot survive, but also has health. The environmental risks are many and are unfortunately caused mainly by human fault. According to surveys, a quarter of Europe's greenhouse gas emissions come from the transport sector and 70% of this is for vehicles. The Commission has set the target of reducing the average carbon dioxide emissions to new passenger cars and light lorries by 30% by 2030 compared to the 2021 levels. The environmentally sensitive countries have already decided that electricity is the key to achieving their commitments to European objectives. We as a country may be a little back on the use of electricity, but European experience has shown that the adoption of a comprehensive package of measures and incentives, which will support electricity mobility both at national, and at regional level, is possible. Very hopeful in our case is that in Greece there is no factor that does not want the success of electromobility and there is no citizen or politician who does not dream of our cities with less pollution and noise. The fact that the development of electricity mobility is one of the key pillars of the government project is evident from the motives given in the bill we are debating today, which have nothing to envy from in the most developed countries in Western Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the transport sector in Greece represents about 40% of the final energy consumption, while about 96% of this consumption is covered by oil products. With more than five million registered vehicles in Greece, Greece has the oldest fleet of private vehicles in Europe, with an average age of 15.5 years. At the same time, electric cars and hybrid cars do not exceed 0.33% of the total vehicle market in our country. The charging stations are limited to about 80. These elements, in addition to extremely damaging for the environment, are particularly worrying about our road safety, as there are many inappropriate road vehicles which do not meet the necessary conditions. The draft law proposed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy provides a uniform, systematic and integrated framework for the electricity market, with the aim of gradually decommissioning our country from the use of fossil fuels and decommissioning it from the volatile international oil markets, increasing the penetration of electric vehicles into the Greek market and the transition to low-pollutant mobility, developing a network of public accessible rechargeable points, as well as similar private points, encouraging private initiative to develop investment in electricity infrastructures, as well as regulating the rules of the reloading market, etc. In order to achieve all these high objectives, the Ministry gives considerable incentives to the citizens. It reduces the cost of purchasing long-term rental and maintenance for purely electric vehicles, as well as for hybrid vehicles and does so with subsidy actions for electric vehicles, such as ‘KINUMAMI ELECTRIC’, which is expected, by providing free parking as from 1 January 2021 and for two years for electric vehicles, where there is a parking charge or under concessionalisation of municipal parking places, by granting an increased deduction from taxable income for enterprises for the purchase or hire of electric and hybrid vehicles, including motorcycles and mopeds, as well as for costs for the installation of public accessible parking points, with a special incentive for enterprises having head office and activity in island municipalities, providing that the use of a corporate electric vehicle and the coverage of charging costs is not included in taxable income, with the exception of the cost of purchasing an annual passenger vehicle for up to EUR 50,000 per annum. At the same time, the Government gives tax incentives for the installation of parts production plants and of electrical vehicles, particularly in the areas of ligniteification. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that one of the main questions that come to mind when we think about buying an electric car is where we will charge it and whether there will be enough charging points to meet the needs of electric vehicles. Indeed, the development of a charging infrastructure network is very important for the penetration of power-driven vehicles on roads. That is why in the draft legislation we regulate the market framework for electric power-driven services, namely the installation and operation of charging points and related services, giving a clear lead in the investment initiative. Thus, we have to set up charging points in new and existing buildings, giving priority to public buildings, which will have a relative obligation to install them until 1 January 2022. We provide for the installation of charging infrastructures in all new or renovated buildings, as well as in all existing buildings, at a certain percentage of their parking places and according to their use, and simplify the procedure for their installation. We fully adopt the competitive market model for the development of recharging infrastructures and the provision of power-generating services. We define the roles and obligations of the operators of this new market, giving the operators of electric car charging infrastructures and electricity service providers a central role. We are laying down rules on the pricing of recharging services, on the basis of transparency of charges. We provide for the supervisory role of the State and the continuous monitoring with digital governance tools in order to make the necessary interventions. We promote the active involvement of local government bodies in the development of charging points. We are introducing measures for the safe operation of charging infrastructures and setting out the framework for the management of batteries. Finally, following the requirements of modern times, we are energising the electronic register of electricity-market infrastructures and operators, with the aim of systematically recording operators and charging points and ensuring the digital access of citizens to information on publicly accessible recharge points. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u186	Please, Mr. Dunia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, the evidence of air pollution and its effects are, according to the World Health Organisation, nightmares, while the United Nations stresses that nine out of ten people on the planet are breathing polluted air. The environment and its protection cannot be confined to wishing. It's all our business. We must change our attitude to this and improve our daily habits. We will achieve this, on the one hand, with continuous information and awareness on ecological issues and, on the other, with the adoption of environmentally friendly policies, such as electromobility. Eleven Member States - Member States of the European Union already provide a subsidy for the acquisition of cars, with our country being the twelfth in a row. The increase in electricity drive reduces air pollution, protects public health, while minimising the level of noise and nuisance of citizens, and at the same time sets the foundations for our transition to zero-emission mobility and creates economic benefits, business opportunities and jobs through the development of private investment in the creation and operation of charging infrastructures, the provision of related services and the production of electricity-related goods. Greece, with the efforts of all of us, can become a greener and modern country, a country that is human-friendly, but also nature, in a new form, quality life and modern face. By voting for the bill on the promotion of electricity, we are taking a first important step in this direction. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dunia. We continue with Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou, Member of the New Democracy, from the beautiful Pella, with the Pozar Bathrooms and the waterfalls.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government today brings together another draft law aimed at moving the Greek economy into a cleaner, greener model, making use of new technologies on time and not decades late, as we can see from the outset that it has happened in the past. Globally, but especially in Europe, electricity is growing rapidly, taking a dominant position in individual, professional and public transport within and outside the city. The implementation of this technology will allow energy savings, the deconcentration of fossil fuels and the improvement of the standard of living of citizens in cleaner cities. With the draft law under discussion, the government is ambitious to regulate this emerging market, and this is where the core of New Democracy's policy towards the economy lies: to regulate and not control. The philosophy of the draft law is to set the framework within which the market will develop freely, through healthy competition and cooperation between the public and private sectors, by setting rules that will limit any temptations for shameful speculation, protecting social groups with particular interest, such as the inhabitants of Western Macedonia and Arcadia affected by liberation or the inhabitants of the islands, while at the same time allowing the promotion of innovation business initiatives. Three are, in my opinion, the objectives of the draft law. The first objective cannot be the establishment of the necessary infrastructure. Simplify the procedure for the installation of stations and loading points in public and private establishments and determine a relative percentage of parking spaces, compulsory for new and existing buildings. The municipalities have an important role to play as they are called upon to draw up a charging plan for electric vehicles and they are the ones that will ‘ run’ the tenders for the installation and operation of the charging stations. It is right that local societies enter the design centre. The municipality is the one best aware of the specificities of each city or community and not the Ministry or any other central agency. No one knows better about the needs of Edessa or the Giannitsa than the citizens themselves. The second objective of the draft law is to create the necessary incentives for the purchase and use of this new technology. The high cost of acquisition of these vehicles for the time is limited by subsidy measures such as ‘KINUUMI ELECTRIC’. From 1 January 2021 and for two years, free parking is provided for electric vehicles either where a parking fee is provided or in a municipal parking area. A discount is granted for the purchase or hire of electric and hybrid vehicles and for the costs of installing publicly accessible charging points, another typical example of an incentive to private and public enterprises, with a direct public benefit. For enterprises, tax incentives are provided for, such as increased depreciation factors or exemptions from the vehicle market and charging costs. As regards public procurement, the European Directive 1161 2019, which provides for the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles for the public sector, is incorporated. The framework for the supply of a minimum percentage of vehicles on board the fleet is also laid down by public bodies. Incentives are therefore given not only for the purchase of these vehicles by private individuals, but also for their use as a professional: taxi, public transport, public vehicles and others. Here too, Minister, I think there is a greater margin of incentives, especially in social groups where the vehicle is a tool for everyday use, for example, third-party and multitude families. The third objective of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen, is to develop the business activity around electricity. The model of healthy market competition for the development of recharging infrastructures and the provision of power-generating services is adopted. The Ministry only intervenes where secure and environmentally sound activities need to be ensured and employment rights protected. It thus lays down rules for the safe installation and operation of recharging infrastructures, for the certification of qualified personnel and for the management of batteries. Finally, the installation of power-generating modules and other types of electrical vehicles, particularly in the areas of ligniteification, as I said before, is favoured. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that in my view this draft law is the right time to exploit a technology that is expected to prevail over the next few years. It regulates the market in a fair and social manner and gives the state the supervisory role it must have. I call on the House to vote in favour of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u190	We are also grateful, Mr Vassiliou, for the time being. And the next speaker from New Democracy is Mr Dionysius Akippis, from beautiful Zakynthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for the good words about Zakynthos, because we also need advertising right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u192	It is our Greece, our honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, we would say that it is ironic that we are here today to discuss a bill of great importance for the environment and the reduction of air pollutants, for green development, and only two days before they saw the light of publicity, dialogues that prove once again and again that the environmental sensitivity of SYRIZA is simply nonexistent. I do not want to refer to what creepy is heard in the various debates. Besides, if there are ministers, political persons and who are involved, this is a matter for justice to find. But what we have to take as a message, and I do not know if we got this message, if we finally understood it, is that, in positions of responsibility, there should be people worthy, capable and not people of the party tube or of 'immediate', because the results will ultimately be the ones we have seen all of us have to make and mourn two victims in Matti. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today - to pass the bill - a bill of great importance and concern to us all. We all want a future with fewer atmospheric pollutants, especially in large urban centres, a reality with fewer respiratory diseases, a daily life where we and our children will not worry about the air we breathe. With this draft law on the promotion of electromobility, that is exactly what this is all about. After all, this is a draft law which is in agreement and which supports the whole of the market, a draft law which is in the direction of good European practices, which is already in line with eleven European countries and, of course, a draft law laying down the foundations for green movements, creating a comprehensive and coherent framework of provisions. I have listened carefully to the opposition on the part of SYRIZA, and I sincerely would like to tell you that I consider it totally unfounded, if not malicious. We are bringing to Parliament today a bill regulating issues that you environmentally sensitive, conscientious, have left for four and a half years completely unregulated! Of course, we saw SYRIZA's environmental sensitivity when you did not vote on the oil bill, which you agreed a few days before the July elections. What were you doing here? You remembered that you were environmentally sensitive when you became Opposition. We also saw it when you were ruthlessly in favour of extending the lives of lignite plants, but also when you joined those who are expressing their opposition to renewable energy sources. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it is healthy to criticise. But when you have unfounded criticism without fundamental arguments, that makes you more graphic than politically active. And this is particularly obvious when you are trying to find a audience, seeking rather unfortunately to decouple a bill that has nothing but a positive impact and with which the entire Greek society agrees. So what's today's bill doing? Overall, it provides significant incentives for the purchase of vehicles and chargers, as well as development incentives for the production of batteries and chargers, while in total it introduces arrangements for the smooth operation of the market with a axis always good European practices. In particular, this draft law provides for a series of incentives, including ecological bonuses and tax exemptions, which lead to a mid-weight reduction of 25% of the price of an electric car and 40% of an electric bicycle. In fact, by means of the ‘KINUMI ELECTRIC’ action, the purchase and hire of electric cars, twins and bicycles by individuals and companies, an action that has a budget of EUR 100 million, is subsidised. Free parking is established for electric vehicles either where a parking fee is provided or in a concessional municipal parking space. It provides that the use of a company electric vehicle and the cover of charging costs are not included in taxable income. It gives brave economic incentives for importing electric cars, scooters and bicycles. It regulates the issue of chargers in public and private areas with a forecast by the end of 2021 to cover all national routes. It regulates the market system, and already eighteen entities have signed an agreement with the Transport and Environment Ministries, committing themselves to doing what is appropriate and to support the bill. It introduces provisions according to which the public takes on its own weight with the prediction that 25% of new cars will be mandatory electric motors, and there are commitments for electric buses as well. At the same time it introduces development incentives for electric cars and chargers with an explicit provision for them, while for the first time special tax incentives are given to potential areas for the production of batteries, chargers and electric cars. So, briefly, today's draft law seeks to improve overall environmental conditions, while setting up the appropriate conditions to open up a new and promising sector in the market and create new jobs. Indeed, with regard in particular to taxis, brave incentives are introduced to renew the fleet. Incentives up to 10,500 euros are provided to acquire a new electric taxi. Specific arrangements are introduced concerning the placement of stationary and parking areas for external passenger cars, public use, a measure adopted for taxi drivers, as well as for disabled persons driving an electric car. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Greece has the oldest fleet of private vehicles in Europe with an average of about sixteen years of age, and most of them have exceeded sixteen years of traffic, while about 73% of the Greek fleet is already on its way for more than ten years. It is clear from this that in our country the environment is excessively burdened by other European countries. And it is not only the air pollution that we need to be concerned about, it is also the road safety that is at stake, given that old vehicles are moving in reduced protection to the occupants and pedestrians. Therefore, this draft law seeks precisely to ensure the improvement of the quality of life of all of us through the reduction of air pollution, but also the safety of our fellow citizens, while laying the foundations for opening up a new market in Greece, a market income that will bring new opportunities and, of course, new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too. We continue with New Democracy and with Mr.Michalis Papadopoulos from beautiful Kozani, the town of Serbs. They don't know what's missing those who haven't visited her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks have nothing to fear at all. On the contrary, Turkey's leadership must be very careful and be careful in what it says and does. He has to realize that with fire we are not playing. Ladies and gentlemen, when a few days before the July 2019 elections, Mr Mitsotakis presented the sixteen axes of the programme to be followed by the New Democracy, he stressed with particular emphasis the design for the immediate implementation of a new energy policy. This new national energy policy, which is environmentally friendly, aims to include the country among the ambitious states seeking to move the European Union into an economy of climate neutrality and, on the other hand, to lead Greece in actions that will have the same benefit. The aim is therefore that Greece should become a protagonist from the European Union, attracting investment, participating in pilot actions and innovative policies. In view of this, therefore, of the green agreement and the national energy and climate plan, a bill that promotes green transport, electricity, as well as sustainable urban mobility is currently coming to plenary today, a bill that runs very quickly at European level, mobilises all the social groups involved in the private economy, creating opportunities, growth and above all, jobs, facilitating cooperative policies with self-government, proving the web of the politically responsible ministries and government policies on the environment, spatial planning and transport. And all this for a better, sustainable everyday life in a new economy, in a new productive model. We must not forget, of course, that all these policies aim and require a new productive model in a climate-neutral environment. They must first of all build a new culture, facilitate society and citizens to change their everyday habits and pursuits. That is why we need the maximum possible consensus and consistent pursuit of the objectives with projects and not in words, so that the footprint that remains in society is visible but also strong. That is why I have listened very carefully to the rapporteur and to the colleagues from the Staff Regulations. I think that once again they should be more careful and pitiful in their words and criticism, because the SYRIZA government in 2015-2019 remained not just untrue, but prevented electricity. Incomprehensible why and certainly curious about the refreshing announcements made by the green economy. SYRIZA's colleagues need to bear in mind that for the first time with the provisions of Law 4233/2014 the installation of electric car charging devices and, in general, vehicles in the country came out, the working conditions of the workshops and their certification were then inaugurated by the first electric car in Greece. And I know that well because at that time I had the honour of being a State Secretary for Transport and Signatories. Although this law was passed in December 2014 and while elections had already been opened, so that I could speed up this process and come a little faster to this green development by electricity, we issued the decision provided for by the above provisions setting out the technical specifications laid down by the law. I remember that at the time we had pilots also operated in the Municipality of Kosanis with electric cars in cooperation with PPC. For we, when we believe in a project, are already implementing it. We do not leave it to his fate, nor do we simply limit it to a political clash. On the contrary, for four years, from 2015 to 2019, not only did nothing but harmed, fought electricity. In 2016, SYRIZA extended the installation of infrastructure in ports - correctly - and it took three years to issue the CYYA which established the technical specifications. So why? Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, there is a holistic approach and an integrated intervention for the rapid transition to electricity, which includes incentives for the development of electricity, for the promotion of road transport and public procurement, for the organization of the market for the necessary infrastructure. In this context, I am sure that these objectives will be achieved. I would like to stress two points, however, to close, Mr President. Firstly, the strengthening of green transport, which is crucial and very important. Secondly, I would like to emphasise a regulation which reflects the importance of the policies planned for a new economy, a new production model in the country. The bill also takes care of tax incentives. It also takes care of the installation of power-related plant, components and articles in the areas of the post-lignite period, such as lignite basin, Kozani, Ptolemaida, Amytino and Florinas, such as Megalopolis. He's giving a new breath. If you wish, it is also the first bill - if I am not mistaken, Minister - that defines the first point for the post-lignite era. I won't be tempted because I'd have too much to say. It is very important that we should be able to go ahead with projects and things that play a purely development role. That's what this bill does. That is why I would urge you not to vote for it, but I would like you to reply to us because you have done three years to make a decision. I would also like to present to the Minutes the decision that came out in a month of implementation of the 2014 bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Papadopoulos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr. Papadopoulos. Let's go to SYRIZA and to Mrs. Sultan Eleftheriad from Kavala with the Pangaios, the Ammolophus, the Philippis. Anything you want, like wines, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we would really be talking about a great success, if it were true what you have been trying to convince us since this morning, that Mr Mitsotakis has returned with EUR 70 billion from the summit. Why would it be a great success? Because 70 billion would have been twice as much of the money itself involved in the European Commission proposal. But that's a lie, unfortunately. Mr Mitsotakis returned with 19.5 billion grants, while the European Commission proposed 22.5 billion and 12.5 billion loans, while the European Commission's proposal was 9.4 billion loans. So, what do we have here? We have a change in the ratio between grants and loans at the expense of grants, which is extremely negative news. It shows the danger of our country driving into a new debt crisis, with incalculable consequences. The right to brakes in disbursement also puts us under surveillance even countries that do not belong to the European Union. Also, Mr Mitsotakis went to the summit to ask for sanctions on Erdogan and today, one day later, Turkey announced surveys south and east in Kastelorizo. Is this also a huge success, or is it still a sign of Erdogan's supposed isolation? I think this is a sign of Mr Mitsotakis' absence at the summit, a sign of the lack of a national strategy against Turkey's challenges. Here I would like to remind you that in October 2018, Greece, with the fresh “Nikoras PHOKA”, prevented a Turkish ship from conducting investigations within the Greek continent. The minimum you have to do is follow the same practice. As far as Matti is concerned, SYRIZA's attitude has been stable for two years: "All in the light". On the contrary, the New Democracy's attitude was to run on the dead in Matti, post-electioned by Mitsotakis to reward those who handled the Matti, a Secretary General of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the former Deputy Chief of ELAS, Tsouvala, upgraded to a commander of the Firefighting, the Chief of Staff in Matti, who had denounced in the election and told the UN in September 2019 that everything was operationally done properly in Matti and was the weather and the ravaged winds for this tragic event. Therefore, two years later, Mr Mitsotakis has changed his mind again and he talks about complaints and facts which need to be investigated by the public prosecutors. Why? Because whenever he turns out of his pocket, he accidentally takes out a robbery, a tape, a paramilitary approach to disorientate public opinion and public dialogue. As far as the bill is concerned, I shall begin with the amendment we tabled on the free reconnection and free supply of electricity to population groups affected by the pandemic. It is now commonly accepted that both before and during the pandemic, the policies that you followed have brought down a deep recession and have led many families, who have been in a difficult situation, to the limits of poverty, and especially, to the limits of energy poverty, and now, cannot pay their electricity needs. This, of course, often has consequences even for the very lives of patients who, in order to live, need to use power-operated special equipment every day. In thousands of cases you have already interrupted power supply and is amazed by your inertia and indifference, while there are complaints both from the Association of Quality of Life and from the Panhellenic Federation of Consumers. What we propose and we invite you to accept the amendment we have tabled to avoid images of the recent past. We therefore propose free reconnection of cut-offs, free provision of electricity depending on the members of the household until the end of 2020 and their inclusion in the social invoice, settlement of debts which have become due until the entry into force of the proposed arrangements, starting from 1-1-2022, a ban on switching electricity to beneficiaries. Who are the beneficiaries here? They should be beneficiaries of one-person and one-parent households who at the pandemic had a significant reduction in their incomes, as well as two-member and multi-faceted households including disabled, unemployed, seasonal, blocked, herded, tourist and catering workers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen and those who have suffered a reduction of income or have been excluded from State aid because of a pandemic. With the bill you brought to the vote today you are also trying to create the profile of the "green" Prime Minister. This is impossible, however, as both the anti-environmental bill that you passed in May and the abolition of forest maps show exactly the opposite. The cherry on the cake are the statements of the Prime Minister himself a few days ago, who, in the area of Reimitis in Corfu, as a representative of the great-energy crafters who wait for the arson to build, legitimize the building of a monstrous hotel in a virgin area, of excellent beauty and environmental value, with the phrase "sometime it will burn the forest, so we do well and build it." A shameful statement by Mr Mitsotakis, who made us all feel that we are living in a third world. This bill, which was submitted on Friday and entered the committee on Monday, is purely of communication utility. If you look at this, you can see that this is a legislation which deals with a small number of I.C., which relates to strong wallets, and we want a clear answer to that - only a thousand and fifty-five cars. Perhaps now you can imply or believe that these thousands of fifty-five cars will not be given to me or to a lawyer or a doctor or a small businessman, but to some rental companies. We'll see about that. Apparently, it's photographic, and this bill. It promotes unfair competition at the expense of small and medium-sized professionals and traders. It increases the prices of used new technology. It does not give incentives to withdraw and renew a fleet. It does not go any further in the necessary reforms in the transport and transport sectors. It does not even respond to the basic problem of charging points. What are we finally doing with the extraordinary environmental charge for grading used vehicles and the extra, which is in addition to the registration fee? Those who have no money to buy a electric vehicle or a better-tech vehicle will pay high sorting fees so that the subsidy to those who have money to buy a electric vehicle. A characteristic example is what you have brought to the consultation the financing of 'Moving Electricity', which includes subsidies measures for cars costing an average of EUR 35 000, without income criteria, but only with a subsidy cap. In Article 44, the Government should ensure that someone who buys an electric vehicle with a subsidy cannot sell it abroad unless it has been amortised. Otherwise, we will have cases of buying the vehicle, getting the subsidy, selling it directly abroad, and some will have an unfair advantage over the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u198	Please, my colleague, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u199	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I should like to say that promoting electricity on its own cannot lead to cleaner and sustainable cities, it must be part of a broader and comprehensive strategy, which, unfortunately, your Government does not seem to have, according to all the bills that we have seen so far by your Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mrs Eleftheriadou. We continue with SYRIZA and Athenia Mr. Theano Fotou. I want you to be calm to colleagues from the right chairs of Parliament. I'm asking for six minutes of temper! Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, in the vote on each bill, the crucial question is who benefits from the policies that are being implemented. With today's bill, the government is trying to convince us that it benefits the environment. Is that so? It cannot be a solution for the environmental problem unless electricity storage technology is developed. As long as that is not possible - and that is why major research is needed - it cannot be the answer to the environmental problem. Secondly, you are motivating that valuable resources should be transferred from the cracked Greek economy, due to COVID -19 and a recession, to the automotive industries of the Franco-German axis. He is the one who has been deprived of us, because of your incorrect attachment, of valuable funds from the European Union now, recently, and who is also wearing us an inseparable new memorandum in the form of conditionality. This is what you will see, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, what great problems it will cause us. It finances, therefore, the costly research programmes of the Franco-German main axis for the evolution of electronic vehicles. Who benefit in particular? Evidently, high income levels benefit. Because for the middle and weak strata this market is a joke. At the same time, however, a new social model of success, the new lifestyle, is being created. You have an electric car, that is, you are both economical and other successful, you are sensitive, green, with environmental concerns. Social standards, however, incorporate people's expectations of social development. And often these conflict with the harsh reality. You've done this before, New Democracy, with the dilute luxurious jeep before. You gave them a bonus. New lifestyle then. And they rust today without plates on mandarins and sheds, because of the overtax you later put PASOK. You are beating electricity at the same time as you are depriving thousands of households affected by pandemic and recession, cutting them off the current. We have told you many times that pandemic affects a wide range of social layers. It does not hurt the known poor and extremist poor, whom you do not see anyway, are invisible. It doesn't hurt them. It hits your favorite middle layers that you deceived. It's hitting even higher layers. It hurts people who until now, until before COVID - 19 lived decently and had a decent life. It hurts them all. You didn't hear us. You did not help the households, as we proposed with our programme 'We stay upright'. You are the only European government that has not helped households, the only one. All governments had three businesses - workers - households. You households don't see them, resulting in energy poverty. That's what happened right now. This has been harvested and we are in danger. Aren't you people taking you to your prefectures who've cut off their power? They're not taking you! Okay, that's interesting! I'm recording it by the rapporteur of the New Democracy. On the contrary, many of us get thousands of us. And you should know that we are in danger of seeing dramatic situations again, such as those we saw in 2011-2015. You and then ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u202	In 2015, you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u203	In 2015, we reconnected all the cut streams. Then, then, we have had human lives. Thousands of households do not have electricity today. Premise the electromobility rather than electricity for those affected by the pandemic. That's why we're asking you to activate the 2017 SYRIZA Reconnection Fund. And accept the amendment we are tabling before it is late in the autumn. It'll be late in the fall. We propose to you: First, free provision of 150 to 300 kilowatts monthly, depending on the members of the household, until the end of 2020, for these next few months. Secondly, free reconnection of benefits cut off. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Third, settlement of dues and start of payments from January 2022. Who will be the beneficiaries? It will be, firstly, one-person and one-parent household who either is one of the categories I will describe immediately afterwards or have an income of up to EUR 2 000 over the last four months. Secondly, two-faced and multi-faceted households who include members of these categories and who have seen a significant reduction in their incomes. What charges? They are disabled, unemployed, seasonal workers, broccoli workers, herring workers, short-term workers, tourism workers and the focus that is affected, farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, free traders. We've counted them one by one, Mr. Colleague, so glad you're listening to these accusations. They're the ones that get hurt. They are self-employed, artists and cultural workers. I say to you, we invite you at least at the last hour: 'Go ahead with these arrangements'. We will defend the rights of citizens in public goods: Housing, this first residence that is now completely unarmed, water and electricity. And no one, but no Chrysochide law, will forbid people who have these great needs from sitting in their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u204	Thank you. To go south to Patras and Mrs Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u206	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u207	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by studying scientific evidence of the burden on the health of the citizens of air pollution, which is mainly caused by self-motivation in my mind, a figure of eight and a half thousand has been nailed. So many of the dead in Greece are counted each year by diseases related indirectly or directly to atmospheric pollution. I present myself to the Minutes of the School of Medicine at the University of Athens on the impact of air pollution on public health. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christina Alexopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document to usb, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And we are still serious about voting for a bill that will save people's lives. And it is financially heated if this law calculates it, it will save for the National Health System huge sums of medical expenses. I sincerely expected from Friday that the last meeting of the committee responsible so far, SYRIZA's colleagues, should understand the huge mistake they are committing by not peerly supporting this draft law brought by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. I was expecting professional humanists to ask the government to do even more and not to blame her for doing no less. They come to Parliament, colleagues of counter-population, and support liberation. Then they go to the areas where the lignite plants are located and blame the government for progressing to deprivation. They support eco-mobile and, at the same time, ask hypocritically not to ban imports of old contaminants and public health hazards. And with the constable, that's also the constable. You are doing another opposition, and the citizens are aware of it. That's why Kyriakos Mitsotakis throws you double scores in polling. The bill. What goals does this bill have? Essentially, four: The first is to make electric cars economically more attractive to the average income than to the highest, said SYRIZA colleagues. The second is to develop a network of chargers throughout the territory to such an extent and density that the number of electric cars, which will be released in Greece over the next decades, can be supported. Thirdly, in the country of endless sun, it is intended to invest in electricity and additional investments in the renewable energy sector, such as such and so many, so as to become independent of the imports of oil. And the fourth objective is electric cars, motorbikes, bicycles, their batteries and mechanical components made largely in Greece, in our country, thousands. That means thousands of new, well-paid jobs. This whole grid will be subject to uniform competition rules, which will have the greatest benefit to the final consumer. The main argument, especially SYRIZA, against this bill is that it's classic. Are they right, Mr. Secretary? What kind of cars is this bill subsidising? He subsidizes all electric cars, all electrical machines, all electric bicycles. And for electric machinery and bicycles, the subsidy is much larger than for electric cars. What's the draft law doing? It helps establish and create businesses that will produce electric vehicles, batteries, chargers and that it is related to electric power. In these companies and factories people will work and they will certainly not be the daughters, nor the sons of shipowners and industrialists, they will be our children who have been forced to leave abroad so far, because they are not finding work here, because they have studied and want to be paid accordingly. And these children, you know, in the vast majority of them, are the children of the poor and the middle social and economic strata. Political engineers will work in building buildings and facilities, engineers, electricians, builders, all the occupations of construction, from the most specialized scientists to unskilled workers. These are the children of the proletarians, as you call them, gentlemen of the Left. Therefore, yes, we could say that this bill is classic as it ensures that the working class children stay and work in Greece. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] We also heard that the bill is a classic, because only those who have a lot of money will be able to buy an electric car. That's how Mrs. Fotou told us a little earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, an average Greek family keeps its vehicle in use for twelve to seventeen years. The cost of obtaining electricity is on average 30,000 euros, while for an average contractual cost is 15,000 to 17 000 euros, except that electricity has about 2 000 euros a year less operating and maintenance costs. Moreover, the efficiency of electric motors is 85%, unlike internal combustion engines which are between 25% and 30%. This means that in the decades the family that has bought an electric car will have saved the difference, the cost of acquisition. And this, without calculating the subsidies, tax exemptions, the non-calculation of the purchase and maintenance of the electric vehicle in the taxable income, the free parking places provided for in this bill. Therefore, the electric car may seem at first sight expensive, but its supply is a medium-term investment. Furthermore, as global research and production in electricity is rapidly growing, electricity vehicles prices are expected to decrease significantly over the next 10 years. So, at the moment, with today's figures, the bill goes completely in line with its time. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, at the first meeting of the competent committee of SYRIZA's MP said the market forces would judge how comprehensive this bill is. However, the market already judges the bill before it is even voted on before the first organized power plant is built before the first major battery plant or charger is even built. I am presenting for the record the latest published adverts of work by the largest company producing electric cars in the world, 'TESLA', for Greece. It is four: one was published in February, one on 11 June and two on 14 July, one on the day after Mr SYRIZA was placed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christina Alexopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Finally, I'd like to testify in the Minutes and a photo. It is from the Bosnia-Croat border in 2017, outside of a hotel. You know what you see? Electric car chargers in an area where until twenty years ago they had a civil war. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christina Alexopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Corresponding images I want to see all over Greece in a few years. Going through my electric car and seeing everywhere electric power stations and, in fact, producing electricity to a large extent from renewable energy sources. This is an image that we will see, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u208	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u209	In two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u210	Two minutes is too long. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u211	We too support this bill and you who, once again, have reservations. Because we want - and we can - to be in the lead of Europe. What we missed last five years was the proper leadership. Now, finally, we have it. We support, vote and move electrically, ecologically and economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too. We continue with New Democracy and Mr.Efstratios Simopoulos, Salonikos. And I would now ask the left side to be cool, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there was once a party which, as a complement to its name, had the word 'economy'. This party has come to power for four and a half years and as in other areas it has done nothing about this particular issue or rather did: He pursued a left-hand policy in the management of waste, and in fact it was a non-management policy, he continued to charge consumers with fees for linking the islands, brought the forest maps and created hostage situations in tens of thousands of our fellow citizens, created institutions managing protected areas, which, despite the valuable efforts of their executives, were not able to produce work and were essentially a party that as a government was completely counter-environmental. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when you make politics, you also have to produce results. Politics is not lectures, debates, statements of opinion. It must work. Politics must work for the citizens. And for it to work, it must be combined with the capacity to produce the work. And here is not the strong point of SYRIZA and the previous government. That is why I claim that the environmental agenda has been passed in New Democracy. Because the New Democracy has the potential to implement policies that are in favour of the environment and to implement them by means of a method, with patience, with a plan, and that is a huge difference between us. In this context, electricity is also included. It is a bill that will be implemented, a bill covering several - I would say sectors - of which we want to call electricity. Obviously, it has scope for improvement, no one says no, but the present government is not moving like you who have been analyzing your energy in endless discussions, and you have explored it at constant meetings, which have never worked. Yes, we have a framework for electromobility, a framework that at the same time, apart from being environmentally friendly, is also developmental. Because you have to create new entrepreneurship fields all the time if you want to develop the economy. And that is what the government does with this bill, as it does with the liberation that you accuse her of having no timetable. You know, timelines are being created after you set the target. When we do a project, a project, and we say it will be ready in six, eight months after we take the steps back, so that we can create the framework for actions and find the resources and instruments that we will achieve our goals. But where would you understand that? This requires a job-making capacity, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA. You have intentions, you often have good intentions, but with intents no work is produced and this simple thing you cannot understand. I now come to an end to an issue that I hear several times. On the occasion of the discussion on Thrace, I hear these great 'development conferences' that you have held. What was it? Conferences of ideas exhibitions. What could you do? Nothing. For four-and-a-half years you've had ideas reports. That is why the Greek people put you in opposition if you start to understand that politics - as I said at the outset - is an act, it is a result. You were judged by the result - I hope - because no one is sure about the future. Politics has surprises, it has changes. If ever - something I don't see very quickly - you come to power, these years will make you much, much more mature, because that needs our political system. Finally, today in this Chamber it is a good thing that we are not confronted with foreign policy because I have seen it from a colleague. There is now tension in the Aegean. It is good, therefore, that we here in low tones, on this issue and united, as we do in national matters, also face this challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos, for keeping time. And we're going to SYRIZA, to Mr. George Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u215	The previous colleague doesn't think he has a little memory. We have been dealing with four and a half years, especially in the field of foreign policy, together with the economy, with opposition outside the authorities, destructive and foreign policy, not only for the Ambassadors' Agreement, but almost throughout the range of Greek-Turkish. You remember now that we need greater understanding and consensus. Let's see you next time, but that's what you know, it takes two to do it. We have been calling for the convening of a Political Heads of State for many months now. There is a dramatic new situation in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean on the basis of Turkish politics and behaviour, and so far there is no new strategic planning to deal with the new data. There was a huge communication campaign in the past few days around the new list of sanctions that the European Union will probably take advantage of if Turkey makes further moves in the region and at the last summit - it ended only at dawn - we have absolutely nothing for Greek-Turkish. Absolutely nothing! That is to say, from the visit to Trump in the United States to the last summit, there seems to be a certain - eloquently I say it - unable to manage very critical issues with regard to Greek-Turkish. Nevertheless, there is still scope if there is consultation and common line - because there is a need for a common line, a national line - and we are here. However, do not call on the question that there must be another attitude on these issues. You have kept a completely destructive, unacceptable attitude for four and a half years and this Greek people have not forgotten. And I come to another topical issue. I can't help but talk about this. It's good to talk about data. It is not 70 billion that we get. Let us not put the ESDP in the budget, the common agricultural policy. We are talking first of all about 32 billion subsidies and loans, which could have been more than that if our country had claimed unemployment-based allocation rather than GDP fall. The Greek Government did nothing like that. And the most important thing for 2021 - and of course this also concerns the other European countries affected by the pandemic's economic crisis, not the pandemic itself - will only get 10%. This is planned for 2021. In Greece, let's say it's around 3.2 to 3.4 billion. This is the only commitment, which exists, and also that by 2022 we will be approved - not to be disbursed - 70% of the grans of the grants that correspond to us. These are, together with the possibility of returning the memoranda with two main brakes from the so-called luxurious partners, the mechanism on the basis of which either the loans or the grans will be provided and the recovery plan of the country, which will be drawn up by the Council bodies, ECOFIN, a implementation plan, namely, on prerequisites, milestones and binding terms. Call it whatever you want. Don't you want to say a memorandum? Let's say that. But these are terms. And the second brake is that for disbursement by the Technical Committee, namely the Euro Working Group of 27, there is also a need for unanimity on terms, commitments and so on. And so I come to the subject we are discussing today. The New Democracy was consistent from now on: Since the autumn, in October 2019, Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, had said two things and only two things in terms of the environment, environmentally, one is speeding up degreasing - I say what he announced, I am not saying what will happen - and the second was electric cars. I will not reopen the debate. There is no minimum planning to achieve the objectives. There is instead the statement by Mr Mitsotakis that workers in western Macedonia can find another job to do in the future. This is the design that exists. But, in any case, deprivation in so far as it goes does mean a smaller print on the environment. And I'm on my way to the power-driven. I will show you, therefore, why this bill, although it promotes, strengthens electric cars - and in this respect, in this respect, we are in agreement, we are not in agreement with the extent to which it could be much more, and then I will say a few examples - it will in fact increase the pollutants, not the current ones, with the planned reduction that would have been without intervention to the used ones. The bill you bring will reduce the pollutants to less by 2030 than if you did not bring the measures you bring. You have not yet brought a single provision with the exception of defoliation and green cars to the benefit of the environment. All the provisions you have brought to the environment are in the direction of deregulation of environmental protection. You haven't brought a single layout. I say this if anyone wants to see if you really are in favour of protecting the environment or not. I'll go to the power-driven specifics. First of all, the measures you bring are completely anemic. You know it yourself. The Minister knows that, too. He recognized it. We are below the average European level in the motives given. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I will only give you one example. In Germany today with leasing you can get a SMART with 9,90 euros a month. It's a lot less money than it pays for gasoline. But it's not the main thing there. The crucial point is that you're bringing huge counterincentives to the market for newer automobile technology. And to tell you specifically what I mean. For Euro 4, you put an environmental charge of 3,000 euros and a registration fee increased by 200% from Mr Stakoura's other bill. Euro 5A has an environmental fee of EUR 1,000 and a 100% higher classification fee. In the 5B and 6 engines with a structure before August 2018, you impose a registration fee increased by 50%. What does all this mean? They simply mean that in an economy, which in any case there is a big problem, especially after the pandemic, for the vast majority of Greek citizens - middle class and lower layers - to buy a conventional car at all - we do not talk about it, they will not buy electric car - you forbid them from buying and using it. Because you have all told you how bad we have a older fleet in Greece, with an average of 16 years of age, so I tell you that with the bill you are bringing, you are putting an obstacle to the renewal of the car fleet. It's so simple. For every single electric car the pollutants we win - and we win for that we are in favour - the corresponding would be two old-tech cars to be replaced by newer technology if the other one cannot - and most people cannot - buy electric cars. And you're blocking this thing. In 2030, with the most favourable scenario by the ESRB, we will have under 7% motor vehicles. As you can see, the heavy burden falls to 93% of the fleet - at best 93% rather than 95% or 97% - which will be petrol, diesel and others. Instead of incentivising the citizen to change his old car with some new technology, since he cannot get a new car, you will not even leave him the same framework that is today and you are putting obstacles that do not exist anywhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u216	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u217	Everywhere there are stimuli policies. That's another thing. There is nowhere the level of charges, both with the registration fee and the environmental fee you put here in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, too. I return to Thessaloniki, Mr. Dimitrios Kouvela from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the European Union reached a strong historical agreement on the reconstruction package and the Community budget for the period 2021-2027. Finally, European leaders responded to the circumstances and chose to move towards economic and social solidarity. As the President of the European Council, Charles Michelle, quite rightly noted, it is the right agreement at the right time. It is undoubtedly a Greek success, but also a personal success of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. We were the first to ask Europe to take brave initiatives to address the financial consequences of the pandemic. We have been dynamically involved in the negotiations in recent months and finally we have succeeded in getting what we claimed. The Greek package from the agreed total is more than EUR 70 billion. As Greece we achieved our goals at the summit because in just a few months' time in 2019 we had managed to win the lost four and a half years of credibility of our country. Shock, awe and anger cause the sound documentaries for the Eye. It is a national case and a minimum obligation on the souls of the hundreds of our fellow citizens who have lost themselves to this matter in full. I now come to the extremely important bill we are discussing today in plenary, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, it is true that this is one of the few that has come to plenary with such a clear environmental mark in recent years. It is no coincidence that the bodies in the committee also favoured this draft law. You deserve congratulations on the work you've done since the first moment you've taken over this so neural ministry. The bill we are debating today has a twofold objective: on the one hand, the organisation of a single framework in the field of electromobility through the provision of similar incentives at all levels and, on the other, the continuous cultivation of ecological awareness among citizens. The Government of New Democracy has set as its objective and focus the protection of the environment policy, the prevention and response of climate change. I listened carefully to the SYRIZA rapporteur telling us again that you wanted to, but in the end you did not have a better chance of doing the same and better with what the New Democracy Government and the relevant ministers are proposing today. However, it is certain, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that for four and a half years you have not taken a step forward in the electricity market or in order to limit even the consequences, the arbitrary environmental consequences which exist in many areas at the expense of the environment or the elimination of even pathogens of energy, as we are consciously trying to achieve. We have already presented to the Greek people the national energy and climate plan. A coherent, integrated plan, compatible with European standards and within the framework of the European strategy for the mobility of low emissions of air pollutants. The health of the population on the one hand and the protection of the natural wealth and the environment on the other are, for us, unnegotiable conditions within the framework of the integrated ecological policy that we have been implementing since the first day we have undertaken governance. In December last year the European Green Agreement was presented, the so-called 'Green Deal'. This is for us the roadmap to achieve the sustainability of the green economy, but also to cultivate ecological awareness among citizens, especially those younger ages. Now is the time, with appropriate actions, to achieve efficient use of resources by moving to a clean, circular economy. They sounded like slogans and only those terms in your previous period of government. Today we are actually doing the reduction of the pollutants we have announced. This draft law moves in this direction with the gradual decommissioning of the country from the use of fossil fuels and its release from the unstable international oil markets. Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the first moment spoke of the need to rehabilitate the lignite polluter as soon as possible and to move to another phase of exploiting renewable energy sources. Thus, the objective of this draft law is to increase the number of electric cars. Moreover, increasing accessibility for both public and rechargeable facilities and for the respective smart private sectors, giving additional incentives for the development of investments in electricity infrastructures. At the same time, for the first time, the rules on the reloading market are regulated by introducing modern urban provisions aimed at speeding up the licensing of such recharged infrastructures. The goal for 2030 is the percentage of electric cars in the Greek market to reach 30%, while in many countries in Europe it has already reached 50%, and, respectively, to reduce pollutants. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u220	You're welcome, Mr. Kouvela.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u221	Greece cannot, ladies and gentlemen, continue to be Europe's dump on old-tech cars. That is why both the tax and the incentives to withdraw old vehicles are very important. They are imported together by the Ministry with this draft law and are in the interest of every citizen. Alas, if even in a bill we are trying to improve our breathing air, you are talking about class discrimination and travel. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now enough with this political toxicity that has done so badly in the country in recent years. I conclude by saying that the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, has made it clear that already since 2021, since next year, 25%, one in four cars, which will be supplied by the public for his needs, will be electricity. With courage he did not hesitate to admit that in the urban transport of Thessaloniki we need significant improvements. We can and we want to go much better and we will do so, ladies and gentlemen, with the competition that is going on. Don't take sin, Mr. Famele, defending the Poppa period in OSH and the Spirtzi period in the metro of Thessaloniki. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. We continue the ecological policy adopted by the citizens a year ago. Obviously I am voting in favour of this draft law and I invite you to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Couvela.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Femmelle, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I would remind my fellow Member that it is a sin to refer to these periods. Fortunately, my colleague, SYRIZA, who actually went through public control by OSH, because your New Democracy colleagues would still have faxed out the ruffles of recruitment to OSH, as we found hundreds of documents for recruitment to OSH by the Members of the New Democracy. Fortunately SYRIZA took over the promotion of his work. The subway from 20% reached 75%. And now you come to stop the metro of Thessaloniki, privatize the management and destroy the history of Thessaloniki that is located in Venizelos Station. This is the story of the New Democracy. Rosfetia, privatisation and insulting the history of Thessaloniki. So don't talk about sins. They don't talk about rope in the hanger's house. And you know that New Democracy has a sinful past in all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Couvela, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u228	Second minute, Mr President. Mr. Femelle, I didn't manage against you. I just reminded you that you defended the Pappa to OSTH and Spiritzi in the case of Thessaloniki Metro. I didn't mean to open a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u229	Are you going to tell us about the ruffles?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u230	Instead, you are now trying to remind us of the OSTH that you took over, which operated with four hundred fifty buses. Let us remember, then, how things actually had to do with it. You managed to deliver about two hundred buses. That is, the urban transport broken down, and the construction of the metro of Thessaloniki stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u231	Put it down, Mr. Kouvela.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u232	That's just how it is. But I told you, let's not open a conversation now. It's not your interest. That's true. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Kotrias has the floor, from the New Democracy and the beautiful Phthytida.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how much car traffic affects carbon dioxide emissions and the climate of cities has been clearly seen during the pandemic period, during which our cities have reduced their traffic. They improved their air quality. Our transition to the age of reduced coal and to the energy neutrality of 2050 leads us to a new policy on the use of internal combustion engines. It leads us to a policy of promoting electric power and power-driven vehicles. If, in fact, as many colleagues have said, the five million four hundred thousand vehicles in our country are about fifteen and a half years old and that more than sixteen years of traffic have passed, then we will understand the additional climatic burden and the need to move on to such policies. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the pioneer in Europe in matters of transition to a low-carbon society, has, from the outset, set the objective of implementing electricity mobility in our country. With today's bill, the Greek Government creates the necessary framework in the area of specifications, in the area of market strengthening, in the area of functionality, in the area of infrastructure, so that the objective of incorporating electromobility can be implemented at a rapid pace for the benefit of our natural environment. Here we should point out that the electromotion was already provided for in Greek legislation of 2014 and 2016. Complete and on the basis of a more general strategic planning, however, it was never foreseen. And what do I mean? The use of electricity in the movement of vehicles would not make sense if the energy required by dirty sources, i.e. from fossil fuels, were to be guaranteed. And that is why it is important that the programme of electricity of vehicles obeys the strategy of ligniteification, that is to say, the decommissioning of fossil fuels in the overall design to which the promotion of the use of electric cars is part. It is therefore worth noting that in Chapter B, as regards incentives for the development of electricity, electricity is exempted from 1 January 2020 until December 2022, electric vehicles of zero or low pollutants from the payment of the parking fee to the municipalities where there are controlled parking places. In addition, the arrangements for old types of polluting used vehicles are introduced and the imposition of an extra environmental charge of EUR 30,000 in excess of the registration fee for private passenger cars, for lorries of up to three and a half tonnes with ‘Euro 4’ and EUR 1 000 for ‘Euro 5’ and the introduction of the previous categories of vehicles is no longer prohibited if they fall under the exhaust emissions standards ‘Euro 3’, ‘Euro 2’ and ‘Euro 1’ or not even subject to European emission standards. I was surprised when I heard a colleague referring to allegedly problems in the sales of used cars, when we know that for a long time we have become the parking lot of Europe's useless cars, which should have gone to third countries and when all the mantles had collected cars of these kinds, which Europeans wanted to move away from their homes. I must stress that there are also tax incentives for the development of electric power generation, with the exception of the calculation of income, whether from wage-earning or from pensions, the cost of electricity for charging an individual or corporate vehicle of zero or low pollutants. It is also considered taxable income that the balance of more than EUR 40,000 before tax on the concession value of a vehicle of zero or low pollutants to one employee or shareholder of a company. The possibility of deduction from the company's gross income at the time the costs are incurred is increased, the amount of tax depreciation in one year is increased in the means of transport of persons and goods of zero or low pollutants, and also exempted from the annual objective expenditure and the costs of obtaining property the purchase of a passenger with a special vehicle of zero pollutants of up to EUR 50,000. The Arcadia Regional Unit, where the programme of a fair transition is to be implemented, and where it favours the development of new electrical vehicle parts and industries, are being promoted. The second part also describes the organisation of the electricity market and the charging infrastructure described as the necessary spatial arrangements for the development of the charging infrastructure and in Chapter III of Part II, the urban and other requirements for the installation of the charging infrastructures of electric vehicles are laid down. It is obvious that the municipalities need activation of Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans, SWAKs, to support electricity mobility. Chapter IV regulates the issues of automobile stations, workshops, artificial electric vehicles and CTEOs as far as electricity is concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I mentioned the above in summary to show that the Government of New Democracy is dealing with the question of electric vehicles and electric motors in general, not as it used to be, i.e. fragmented, but with a comprehensive piece of legislation which includes all aspects of the issue, from the market, use and facilities to tax exemptions and the necessary infrastructure. This bill is a step forward and I am sure it will be supported by all the wings of the House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr Cotia, and respect for the time. Sir with "K" capital! And again a little further north, in Pieria and Mr. Xenophonta Baraliaco from New Democracy. Litocho, Platamona, Olympus, whatever you want, like cherries in Colindros! What a beautiful country we have! Here, Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President, and the advertising you make in our prefecture. We're waiting for you on vacation! Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill opens wide open the door to the future for road travel in our country. Greece boards the fourth industrial revolution train with a vehicle for new technologies, which respond convincingly to the urgent questions posed by undeclared reality and environmental challenges. Electricity is a great opportunity for our country to participate actively in the formulation of new technological data. It provides the immediate, tangible and effective opportunity to stop being content with euphoric words and impressive slogans and become shareholders of developments and innovation regulators. In simple terms, we should change radically. The promotion of electromobility in our country must not be a distant scenario that will take many years to implement it on a large scale in our country. Europe already applies the large-circumvention electricity model, while estimates show that sales across the continent will exceed half a million with growing trends over the next few years. Let us consider, ladies and gentlemen, the multiplier benefits that will arise for the Greek economy if it turns its direction into such an entrepreneurial possibility. With this bill, the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment offers this possibility dynamically and actively with a comprehensive, coherent and realistic regulatory framework for the penetration of purely electrical and hybrid vehicles on Greek territory. It is not just limited to their use, it also aims at their prospects of production in our country. And already in my place, in Pieria, there is intense mobility and similar interest by a company with a clear business plan, which aims to act on electric mobilisation, seeing modern market trends. For this very reason, Minister, we should see how we can provide at least second-time and some other, but also attractive incentives in the region, apart from the already well planned areas, namely the draft law, so that the investors who have already channelled substantial funds into research and production of vehicles and are ready to turn to new investments in electricity supply, make the most of the potential of the regulatory framework. After all, next to the national objective of increasing electric cars to 30% by 2030, we must put another one: an important part of the electric car that is going to be produced in Greece. This is a great opportunity for our economy. We need to take advantage of the time point and get out dynamically one step forward. The provisions of this draft law provide a number of tax, development and economic incentives relating to the purchase, hire and use of electric vehicles and their chargers. They form a simplified licensing procedure for the installation of charging infrastructures and the extension of the interconnection network to the entire urban and spatial planning plan of the territory. The need for charging electric vehicles for multi-kilometre marches and beyond the urban fabric is the opportunity of local economies in the regional counties to dare to invest in electricity generation and to extract both directly and in the long term. A national charging stations network will create new jobs and will require new skills for research, technological adequacy and needs coverage in accessories, spare parts and repairs. And if the economic pillar, ladies and gentlemen, seems extremely hopeful for the Greek economy, one does not need to go far for the benefits that will arise for the environment in the long term at a critical global juncture. For example, I mention the reduction in air pollution and local noise pollution, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the rationalisation of the domestic energy mix with increasingly less dependence on oil and lignite. In this way, on the one hand, we protect the precious environmental property of the Greek nature, which is a timeless comparative advantage of good and historical tradition and, on the other, we shield public health by drastically reducing the polluting factors that affect both the environment and the human body. It is my deep belief that new technologies are the key to opening the door to the future for our country. It is the vehicle that will reposition the Greek economy at the heart of international development. With extroversion, firmness and incentive we will be able to approach both the necessary scientific staff and our children who are state-of-the-art and the investment capital looking for new fertile fields to be at the top of the new industrial revolution. We are making another commitment to implementing policies that are absolutely environmentally friendly, turning towards renewable energy sources and saving valuable natural resources. The promotion of electromobility is a catalyst for overcoming to the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, too. We will go south to Elias Prefecture with ancient Olympia - and not only - and Mrs.Agerinopoulou Dionysia of the New Democracy. Then I will give the floor to the Cycladic Mr. Loading, and then Mrs. Fotini Bakada, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. Here you go, Mrs. Agerinopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my warmest congratulations to the Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis for the successful conclusion of the negotiations on the European Recovery Fund and the additional funds to be directed to the country. Today's bill brings a great deal of energy and environmental policy, as well as transport policy in the country, as it introduces the basic regulatory framework for the operation of the electricity market, as well as the basic principles of a national plan for electricity. It is one of our main pre-election commitments. We are confident that it will make a decisive contribution to tackling climate change, as the transport sector produces significant amounts of carbon dioxide emissions, which should also be drastically reduced in the future. It will help improve our everyday lives, as electricitymobilization means less air pollution, cleaner air, more health for everyone and tackling noise pollution by reducing noise in cities and motorways. Support for innovation and entrepreneurship and the creation of new jobs are added to the list of the many benefits to be gained from the adoption of the new framework for electricity mobility. Greek scientists are at the top of productive innovation in electricity and automobile worldwide. The provision of incentives for the installation of power-driven automotive plants in our country has the potential to create a new system of production of smart vehicles, with priority in western Macedonia and Arcadia, where it will be one of the means of implementing the fair transition plan. The creation of a public network of charging points along with the private charging points for the service of electric vehicles throughout the territory is still achieved. It makes the active involvement of the Local Government bodies important as they are invited to submit a charging plan for electric vehicles per municipality. It is also important to define the framework for the installation of loading points in new and existing buildings. The provision of incentives to consumers in order to make the purchase of electric vehicles more accessible includes subsidies, free parking, a reduction in the cost of purchase and even a long-term lease, in order to replace old private vehicles, company vehicles and taxis, and also tax incentives are provided. An additional subsidy is provided for vulnerable social groups such as multiples and disabled persons. It incorporates European Directive 1161/2019 on the promotion of clean and energy-efficient road transport vehicles into public procurement and modernises the fleet of public sector vehicles. Particular reference should be made to the regulation that provides that the environmental charge introduced in excess of the registration fee will be directly and reciprocated in return for the construction of a power-driven infrastructure, without, as is the case with other environmental charges, non-environmental targets. However, electricity alone is not 'green'. It depends on the sources from which it is produced. The charging of vehicles must come from pure green electricity, which must not be produced from fossil fuels, but from renewable energy sources. The bill is moving in this direction. It is, indeed, promoting other alternative fuels, such as hydrogen. Further legislative initiatives and actions will need to be taken to create a truly sustainable cycle of green electricity for transport. But, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? What are we talking about dealing with climate change, or what protection of the natural environment, when whatever efforts we are trying to do here, again with one move, zeroing them? These days we have all become unintended listeners of unheardless dialogues containing threats and extortion to the face of the appointed expert to analyse the factors that led to the murderous fires in Eye. Dialogues include assumption of the execution of crimes. Reference is made to an attempt to cover political responsibilities, possibly high-level officials of the Fire Service. It is recorded that it was produced with the intention of preventing the crackdown of forest fires in Mani and Kythera, since for reasons of the same interest no air was sent in due time, although seven were available. There are dialogues that, if they apply, shock and words that you never expected to hear. Mr Matthiopoulos, former Head of the Fire Service, as an expressioner of our absolute cynicism, lands us in a grim reality, where good governance, rule of law, morality, respect for human value and, of course, the protection of the natural environment have no role to play. I come from a fireplace. I have to tell you that today the fire is still burning inside of us. We know how the relatives of the victims in Matti feel and how they feel mainly by listening to these last dialogues. There is a moral and legal obligation to complete the process and to make the responsibility for Eye, Mani, Kythera, in memory of the ungodly people who have left, to protect the natural environment effectively and to protect the country's own security, so that the bill we are voting on today also makes sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mrs Agerinopoulou, for the time and the above. Phillips Loading from New Democracy has the floor from the beautiful Cyclades. "Beautiful" is unnecessary for the Cyclades.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the New Democracy Government has, from the outset, set environmental protection as its priority and invested in a green ecological profile for liberation, reduction of the use of plastics and strengthening sustainable mobility. This last objective also includes the promotion of electromobility. With this bill, then, the entire turn in electricity is now a fact. Electricity is the modern way, we would say, moves in Europe, whose choice restricts air pollution and environmental burdens. In the Netherlands, for example, as in other European countries, two basic things are combined: incentives to make the purchase of an electric car more accessible and more tempting, but also provisions for the installation and smooth operation of chargers, necessary for its use. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to point out that the first world electric car has been built in 1973 in Greece and more specifically in Neorio, Syros, the so-called 'Enfield 8000'. He signed the Greek and owner of the company was the shipowner Yiannis Goulandris and the responsibility for the project was also assumed by an engineer of the MIT. A total of about one hundred and twenty ‘Enfield 8000’ were built. His story is more - very well known and when we say it is the first modern electric car in the world, in no way has it a dose of ethno-patriotic exaggeration. It is a fact that gives us today food for thought. Unknown are to many causes that the car never got permission. There have been various political pressures, inadequacy in the way the engine is taxed. The whole process, however, did not favour the 'Enfield 8000'. So his so fascinating history is becoming very topical today, the question of the existence of Greek industrial production continues to remain unanswered, and the car industry is now turning to electricity. The pioneers in the sector of Greek industry were all over the season, as a significant number of companies invested in modernization, quality and innovation in new products. However, the suspicion of business and the demonization of profits remains widespread, even today, even on the left. So turning to green energy is a choice. First of all, however, it is a one-way road that leads to sustainability, but also a strategic political choice that concerns the whole of Greek society. They're not just various cars and various chargers. It is a conception, it is a choice and attitude, which contributes hand in hand to improving the quality of life and, of course, completes'smart' cities. The National Transition Plan and Electricity are one of the main pillars of the government's policy on the elimination of polluting fuels. At the same time, however, it is also a holistic project which concerns the state, self-government, regions, municipalities and the market and civil society. In Norway about half the cars are already electrical, but also in Britain, they will stop selling old-tech cars in 2035, in Greece only 0.3% are electrical. So our goal and with this bill is one in three cars by 2030 to be electric. So in this way, with the first comprehensive and comprehensive bill to promote electromobility, we lay the foundations for the transition to green movements, which would have a clear benefit to improve the quality of life of the citizen, but also to protect public health. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must have reflexes and stand in front of the challenges of the era with an open mind. This draft law addresses the question of electromobility in many ways and establishes incentives for its development. Electricity has come to stay through important incentives and we are establishing it today, so that it can now be accessible to our country as well. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u241	Thank you too for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u243	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u244	I would like to table the text with the legislative improvements and say what amendments the government is accepting. I am tabling the text of legislative improvements to share with colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u245	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u246	In fact, it's minor. I want to stand by some who's more important. First of all, to restore active quarries, where there are more alternative management systems - AKK, as they are said - we are obliged to involve the systems in order to avoid confusion. These systems also operate on the basis of an authorisation by the EON and therefore have specific obligations. The second change we make with the legislative improvements is that in relation to the saturated networks we accepted some of the demands of the energy communities and slightly change the limits for energy communities in relation to the original use. Apart from that, I must also speak about the amendments. The Government has accepted the amendment by a general number of 410 and a special number of 35 by Mr Amanatidis in relation to the issue of environmental authorisations for photovoltaic or solar power stations. It concerns small units of photovoltaic or solar thermals, and the reason why we accept the amendment is that it has the following usefulness: the regions responsible for its authorisation have so far operated in a different way. So to harmonize the system and have the same system and legal certainty throughout Greece we accept this amendment. The Government also accepts Mr Vlacho's amendments and an essentially identical one to Mr Vassilis Economou for the extension of the suspension of the objections referred to in Article 7 of Law 2308/1995. It is about the issue I spoke about earlier, about Saronida and the claims made by the Ministry of Finance, which so far continues to claim the homes of the people who have been with them for decades. It's going to be solved, I guess. I have spoken with Mr Vlao and Mr Economou has tabled an almost identical amendment. Mr President, we simply have to be careful - I say this for the services of this House - that you should choose one of the two, not to write the same thing twice. Mr Vlacho's amendment is a general figure of 399 and a special 26. Mr Economou's amendment is a general number 403 and a special number 28. I'm talking about the Minutes. The Government then accepts Mr Athanasios's amendment of a general number of 402 and a special number 27 extending the deadline for the submission of declarations under Article 2 of Law 2308/1995 for the regional sections of Lesbos and Lesbos. It concerns an extension for the register, for the reasons explained previously. The government also accepts Amendment No 408 and Amendment No 33, by Mr Ephremidis, by Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Medina Ortega, by Mr Medina Ortega, by Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Medina Ortega, by Mr Medina Ortega, by Mr Medina Ortega, Mr Medina Ortega and Mrs Medina Ortega, by Mrs Medina Ortega. Sedetakis and Ypsilanti, which concerns the building of sacred temples in Crete and Dodecanese. There is a regime for the height of the sacred temples concerning the Church of Greece, but it is not about the Church of Crete - because there is another regime, as you know - or in the Dodecanese and therefore for reasons of equal treatment, I think that my fellow Members are right to accept what they propose in their amendment. Finally, the Government accepts Amendment No 409 and Amendment No 34 by Mr Vassilis Spanakis, for the possibility of authorising indicative signs in multi-medical hospitals, diagnostic centres, by the relevant municipal council. Here again, we are clarifying something. These are signs showing where the pharmacies are, the doctors. There is a particular regime, an indicative reference is made to the law. In the indicative report we add, apart from the medical professions, multimedical and diagnostic laboratories, because again different services in the context of the well-known bureaucracy interpreted them in a different way. Finally, the Government does not accept the amendment by a general number of Members, Mr Fotou, Mrs Famelou and Mrs Kafantaris, on reconnections to electricity. We do not disagree with the objective, we simply think that, beyond the general system of social tariffs, on the one hand, and the universal service, on the other, there is the joint ministerial decision which has already been taken by the CSCE, as is said. It is CAR 35260 and will be published tomorrow in the Government Newspaper Leave. It had been signed by our Ministry, I had explained in other discussions here that it had been delayed at the Ministry of Finance. It will be activated and this programme will cover about a thousand households. I would like to say to my SYRIZA colleagues, without any point of order, that this programme, which they have rightly started, had left behind the 'horses', loose ends for three hundred and forty-three households and we are obviously trying to deal with it. At the same time, the way in which the amendment is coordinated seems to be problematic. It requires a DAC, a contract between the Ministry of Finance and the suppliers and an information system. Therefore, we do not think it is a good way to deal with this issue. We understand the intention. We have the same intention. We believe that it is best done in the way that we go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u247	Thank you very much for the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u248	Mr President, may I have the floor for a clarification from the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u249	If the Minister accepts, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u250	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u251	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u252	Minister, apart from the point of view that we may have on the other issues, namely the amendment you have just said late - we may have a disagreement on this issue, on the reunification, but I will not go into that because our rapporteur will say it - there are some issues relating to access to the electricity to a minimum standard of living, as well as the extension of a settlement on the debts. These are essential political differences, which is why we will all be judged and recorded in the Minutes. But I wanted to ask you for some clarification on the issue of quarries and alternative management systems for AKKs, on the waste of excavations, constructions, demolitions. You say, without being absolutely sure why it is very rough, just now you have announced that if they operate above one system in a region, they will be compelled. Here are a number of issues that are essential and have to do with the nature of the systems. The systems are non-profit-making. Their operational programme must include the costs of restoration and restoration studies, and this means that they must draw up them together when their operational plans are approved by the Recycling Agency. In other words, it is something that cannot be easily retrospectively retrospective. I say to you that you will have a great difficulty in the practical implementation and the definition, rather by ministerial decision, of these details. Let me give an example of Thessaloniki, perhaps Mr. Kalafatis understands it. If we have an unrehabilitated quarry in the Middle East, Mr Kalafatis - I say this as an example - which is on the border of two counties or serves Boeotia and Attica or Kilkis and Thessaloniki and the systems are licensed in neighbouring prefectures, then you cannot easily restrict competition, because then monopolistic conditions will be created if one system is to be restored and therefore provides services for recycling and reuse of inert and sterile remains, and so you will change the market, because we will have one of those systems that exist and operate in this area and one will be created to say it oligopolistic, not to say monopolistic management. I do not know if you have studied it, it is a matter that we have been concerned with in the past. Now that you are making the compulsory partnership, the rules on the systems are not easy to do. In any case, I wanted to know whether you have all this in mind, or whether you have worked it out, because the fact that it has come as an amendment, that it is not fully worked out, that you are amending it now, I think that it does not fully cover the issue of transparency and parity. This amendment can be taken into account in defining market conditions, which we do not have competition, we do not have equal access and transparency, and a lot of price plays, so access to large contractors and large public works to the recipient. And it is much bigger for the town centers, as you know. It's a crucial issue, Mr. Hatzidakis, don't underestimate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u253	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u254	I don't underestimate anything. I take note of what you say. We have tabled an amendment in the form you have seen. There have been comments from the market side, and that is why this legislative improvement has come in view of the fact that we are covering a gap in terms of collecting more systems. I note what you're saying. If you're right, we're here to see it. I do not have a dogmatic position, but I assume that, as it did not happen at random, it was in consultation with the Ministry's services and following proposals from the market itself, all these parameters have been checked. But again, I have no reason to dogmatically stick to this matter. Thank you very much for your comment, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor and then Mr Andrianos from Argolida will be prepared. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing the bill of the Ministry of the Environment, which has been promoting electricity, this morning, and I really think that no one could be positive about this. Nevertheless, the bill is limited almost exclusively to the motorbike, without providing for a package of measures for other transport operations, which unfortunately have never received the appropriate attention from the Greek governments. It is, moreover, a European policy which here seems to be implemented with the logic of the 50s or the logic of North America, that is to say simply aim to create a new generation of I.C. On the contrary, the measures taken to extend the power-driven charging network are moving, as is quite the case with all the government's policies, in the logic of promoting the interests of large companies in the energy sector. There is also a risk that these measures will lead to a new generation of social inequalities, because there are very limited social strata that will have the resources available to benefit from these incentives. If we look at the available models of electric cars on the Greek market, we will find that most of them have quite a high disposal price - most, of course, not all - which makes them inappropriate for the majority of the buyers who do not have the opportunity to acquire them. Furthermore, we do not see any incentive being given by the Ministry, with the proposed legislation, to transform the already acquired cars with another internal engine into electrics, which would serve the citizens but certainly not the automotive industries. At the same time, despite the positive effects of electric drive, unfortunately the existing network of charging stations is extremely limited. And let me share a personal experience with you, an experience that will demonstrate not the evil of electromobility, but the limited charging network. I, like many colleagues - I am certainly not the only one - have chosen the change a few months ago in the car of a conventional electric car. So, seeing the map given to us with the charging stations and the technical specifications of the vehicle about two months ago, I decided to use it for a business trip to Evia, considering that with a fully charged battery I would have the opportunity to go from Athens to Psachna and return. It's a route less than 200 miles. But unfortunately, when I began to return to Athens, I discovered that all of the battery was suddenly empty. And to my great surprise, despite the map I had in front of me, there was no available charging station. The only solution was for me and my teammates with a thousand jobs in a conventional gas station and for us to ask for a charge on the car. I should like to point out that the customer service of the delegation has informed us that it would generally be better not to use air conditioning, because it works on faster battery consumption, and if we can not even open windows by traveling or using the car and if there is such a great need, we should stop knocking on the door to some house we find on our way, asking to charge. Mr. Colleague, it's true, believe me. After three hours we stayed at the gas station, we loaded for ten kilometers, made a next stop in Chalkida, in a store that had a friend and we stayed there for about five hours, assuming that we will be able to get to Athens. Nevertheless, believe me, our suffering is not over. With huge effort and unbelievable heat due to the high temperature that day, we managed to reach a speeding station in the northern suburbs of Athens. We say 'all right, now we're done, we'll charge for half an hour, we'll get to Parliament'. But come on, we're not here! Because we hadn't been informed by the leasing company that had given us the car that to be able to use any mailer you find in a station, you have to have pre-registered the existing network, you have taken a card about like the telecards we used in the past and so you can charge the charge. As you can see, the car stayed in a parking lot and we came by taxi to the House. The next day, we got it for the crew. In conclusion, the distance of Athens - Psachna with intermediate stops for charging more than 12 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not share this whole story to show our opposition to electricity. Without a doubt an electric car does not pollute, it has less functional and maintenance and traffic costs, it is quiet. But if the necessary structures are not created so that one can use it, either alone or if one has a family, as a family car, then unfortunately it will be limited and will remain a city car, you can barely move it within Attica. That is why your legislative initiative, Minister, is moving in the right direction. Nevertheless, we should see as soon as possible what can be done to create the necessary charging network that will facilitate and encourage potential buyers in the decision to change a conventional car with an electric car. In conclusion, I would like once again to highlight the importance of converting electric models into accessible cars for everyone rather than vehicles that will be available at maximum prices and which will be limited to a few and have ones. Here it is worth mentioning that a familiar Greek company, according at least to what is stated on its website, is going to reoperate, actuarial, and electric cars. And of course I am talking about the NAMCO car industry that has produced the well-known to all of us pony. It should be recalled that the original plan for the pony citroen, which was released from 1972 to 1983, was created by a group of French engineers aimed at a global low-cost car, which would be used as the basis of the mechanical parts of citroen 2cv, which together with other cars with similar design led to the citroen faf. The latter was CITROEN's official international heavy technology car. NAMCO now started production of the car in 1975 at a factory in Thessaloniki. Eighteen thousand namco pony citroen were produced with a 67% domestic construction at the Thessaloniki factory and exports to fourteen countries. This model was a huge success mainly because its operating and maintenance costs were in 1/5 of a major cubic jeep. And that is why both the Greek army, both the navy and the air force, showed their preference for this model, so that we reach a day-to-day production of eight to ten cars, which is unprecedented for the Greek data. The fourth most pony, the new model of the company that completed the test phase, while the company was licensed by the Ministry of Development to start its production in Thermi in mid-September 2014, taking the relevant licences from the NSA to the competent State Accreditation Authority, EBITAM with regard to industrial research, technological development and laboratory testing, to do the certification and proceed with the necessary procedures, planning in the third phase of production now to have Greek cars as well. According to the company's website, but also with statements by the owner, but also with what has recently been released in the press, it is extremely likely that the Greek car will return to the market this summer in hybrid and electrical versions. This is certainly a project that deserves state support, as we talk about cars that are accessible to the general public and extremely useful, so that we do not see once again specific companies - colossal companies of the country taking the lion's share of the supply of electricity and huge automotive industry abroad gaining from the sales of vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. We continue on the list of Mr. Andrianos Ioannis from the beautiful Argolida.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today marks a significant change in times and attitudes about movements, the environment and the national economy. And we want this qualitative change in the future to see it in the European Union, where yesterday at the summit it was finally achieved through a fair compromise on the Recovery Fund and the budget of the European Union, an agreement that, as Mr Mitsotakis said, will bring Greece a valuable financial package that exceeds EUR 70 billion with grants - subsidies corresponding to approximately one extra NSRF and with flexible funding conditions, while resources will also be increased from the Cohesion Fund, with resources from the Common Agricultural Policy remaining stable despite intense pressures. This is therefore an important success both for Greece and for Europe. And the ratios with the bill we are debating today are particularly strong in their essence and in their symbolism. On the one hand, it is absolutely essential that we take bold steps to move forward in time and successfully to the tomorrow of electricity. We must therefore ensure that the benefits of this transition are fairly fruited by our entire society, knowing that despite the cost of transition, the overall benefits go far beyond what costs. On the other hand, in a similar way, Europe must take decisive steps towards solidarity, efficiency and deepening. It must of course, since we are talking about solidarity and the effectiveness of the European Union, now that the so-called clouds in the Eastern Mediterranean are dense in showing this solidarity and effectiveness against the turmoil of our region, Turkey. It owes it because, once Turkey questions the sovereign rights of Greece and Cyprus, it challenges Europe's sovereign rights. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law on environmental protection, which concerns tomorrow and the future under the heavy shadow of yesterday and the past. Of course, I am referring to the recent shocking revelations of the newspaper 'Kathmerini' for the tragedy in Matti. I am sure that justice will investigate the new facts thoroughly in order to check the accuracy of those words in the recorded dialogues and finally shine the full truth about what happened two years ago. The hundred two dead, the burners and their familiars, those who lived in this nightmare, the people in the Eye who saw their properties delivered to the fiery neck deserve full truth and full liability where they exist. We must not, therefore, let the responsibilities be omitted and at the same time leave absolutely no shadow that in the future there is even the slightest chance that the lives and property of citizens will be put on a second footing behind micro-groups and other purposes and other calculations. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today introduces a new era for travel and transport in our country. It forms a comprehensive, regulatory framework for the organisation of electricity mobility, the definition of relations between market operators, the introduction of economic and fiscal incentives and the encouragement of the development of the necessary infrastructure for the smooth adoption of this new clean technology. This is a bill with a clearly positive sign for the economy and the environment. That's why I want to congratulate the Ministry's leadership. So, as far as the environment is concerned, electricity is a much clearer solution for transport than for alternatives both to its overall footprint, and much more to the burden of urban centres in particular. We remember very well the acidity that had the problem of the cloud in Lefkapedia before the import of catalytic engines. The adoption of electricity is therefore going to be an even more effective step forward, as it effectively eliminates both exhaust emissions from vehicles and noise pollution. Even with today's advanced engines, the adoption of electric drive will help prevent thousands of deaths per year linked to air quality in our cities. Electricity is also an important step towards degreasing, since according to the design, more and more of the required electricity will be produced from clean renewable sources. Here too, the incentives given to western Macedonia and Arcadia for a smooth transition to the local economy are particularly important. As far as financial results are concerned, transport by electric vehicles costs much less than the alternatives. The incentives given to purchase these vehicles make the transition to new technology more attractive and encourage energy savings, as well as a number of investments, including the development of the necessary infrastructure, the training of professionals in new skills, the purchase of vehicles for private business and corporate use. These are new areas of economic activity that support and create new jobs and stimulate national and individual local economies, while contributing to considerable savings, which can be channelled to more productive uses. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. Of course, this detailed, fully-processed and modern framework should be followed carefully in its operation and implementation, in order to ensure that its positive results are properly fruited by citizens, the economy and the environment, but also to see how the incentives set today will be gradually extended to cover as many Greek families as possible. Because we are talking about the important role of renewable energies in environmental protection, Minister, I am sure you will give a definitive solution to a matter, to that of the long delays in the payment of compensation fees through PPC accounts, to the inhabitants of mountainous areas, as well as to Argolida and to the other regions of the country, where wind turbines have been placed and, of course, to the municipal communities that deserve them. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are taking the right steps to ensure a better tomorrow for us and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr. Adriane. We will remain in the New Democracy. We're going to the other one from Pieria, Mr. Savva Snowides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. You're as noble as ever. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is very important that something should come. It's something we see worldwide. It's something we feel like a need. Electricity is also a part of the logic of the holistic approach to green development. Electric cars, electric moving using electricity clearly and help reduce pollutants. It has been heard many times - I will not repeat it - what levels are in NOx, in suspended micro particles in particular in cities. And I'm not talking about Athens. In 2008 and 2009, I counted in my city of Katerini as mayor of this data and we actually found that it was out of every logic on the main roads. What I must say, however, about the operation of electric vehicles and also about public health is the part of noise pollution. What we have to know is how these eighty-five, ninety-sixteen decibels in Hymettus and sixty-five decibel streets will become. This automatically means improving people's health conditions and quality of life there. Many times the question arises: will they now take all energy from RES? Even if we did not take all the energy from RES - which we will take - it is worth it, because 80% of the population lives in urban areas. So this piece needs immediate improvement. In this direction too, the operation of urban electricity mobility is moving. The question also arises, which I have heard several times also by colleagues: but do we need now, or is it so important that two thousand cars or five thousand cars go in and pay so expensively today? The answer lies in good practices that have taken place before. Who are these? The PV subsidies. At the time when the kilowatt now cost 4 000 euros and they were being subsidised - and they were well-subsidised, because it was good practice - to get the kilowatt now to cost, its construction, less than 600 euros and, of course, to pay the central supplier six minutes the electricity, while we were paying 45 minutes. And then there were voices shouting. They said: "Now you do. Subsidized.’ We are doing good practice, a practice that has been followed by hundreds, thousands of Greeks and foreigners, to make renewable energy sources. Of course, here, this is also a direction of the European Union which will invest EUR 5.2 billion in the development of battery technology. Because we need to reach levels such as America with 'TESLA', such as China with its companies, which are too much in front of this part. And we have to be there. We have to be ready. We must also support European industry because it is an industry in our region, it is an industry that will also support Greece. As has been demonstrated once again, slow Europe is hitting hard so that we can have the huge success of the government, the Prime Minister and all of Greece, to be able to achieve this financial aid - bazuka and for our economy over the coming years. It is also gratifying, as I have read lately and it is true, that TESLA suddenly comes to open offices in Greece. So these conditions, the framework and the background that we are creating clearly have been an incentive to come to see the case of electromobility and invest here. It is also important for the additional aids to be included in the areas that have to enter the fair transition so that they have additional incentives. Of course, there are statistics I read that 30% of cars in 2030 will be electrical. I believe that there will be a lot more, because today there are cars like RENAULT and DACIA, which are now making out of the next year cars of USD 7 000 per vehicle, so that we can at least have urban traffic in a very cheap way. In this sense, the choices are in the right direction, they have a huge semantic character, so that we can go to the time of logic in tomorrow's day, before this wave scans us. I would like to refer here to something that has not been mentioned in general, Mr Minister, and I would like you to hear about it. Those of us who love the environment and the electromobilization take care of it. I therefore have here, in the Minutes of this House, tabled Government No.4233/2014 Samaras, ready to implement the Staff Regulations, which was signed on 31 December and issued on 15 January. What does that C.R.A. say? ‘Determine the terms, conditions and technical specifications of battery charging devices for electric vehicles, etc. etc. etc.’. That's pretty detailed. Five years, an administration that really loves electricity, and that seemed how? Not only from the locations, but also the constant questions about environmental protection and the creation of RES and electricity. There has been nothing and nothing has been done since 15 January. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u261	In January 2015?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u262	On 15 January 2015, signed, Minister, on 31 December 2014, under Law 4233. Who started in this direction? The New Democracy Government had to go forward again, as we usually do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On two further issues, Mr President, with your great tolerance and your love for Pieria, as you said earlier. The first part, Minister, will be about historic cars and replicas. Some people in Pieria have a place where a few dozen people work and make cars that are imitations of old cars. Here, then, is not covered by the law. They are cars that may cost from EUR 40,000 to EUR 200,000 and take them abroad. It's an exportable species. From there on, I would ask you to see it immediately to include historical cars. It's a charge that neither the environment will be charged to replicas you can also set Euro 6 engines. It must wear the engines that PORSCHE wore in 1960. So I think you'll see it in a positive way. And one last thing: Train and electricity is also the logical revolution of today and tomorrow. However, until we also reach 2030, I have the assessment that we need to find the way to strengthen the CNG, the gas that will also be produced in our country in the next few years, so that we can - with an average of EUR 2 000 - transform these old, huge polluting engines, which are three and a half million cars in the Lefkaprone alone - be able to find the money.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u263	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u264	There is a possibility, and I am sure the Ministry will try in this direction, to do even better, to improve the conditions of the urban centres in particular. Right direction, full bill, with no imperfections even in its detail. This holistic approach also characterises the Government of New Democracy and that ministry. This bill is in the right direction because it helps Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr Snowides. I love Greece, but I also love the officials of Parliament who have been afflicted since the morning. So don't mess up now, we'll get out of here and we'll get out of here. Mr Spankis needs breath, because he just entered the Chamber, so I will give the floor to Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis of SYRIZA. You have your pleasures. Your amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, the day for Europe is, indeed, historic. It is historic, because another summit results in lower circumstances. Remember what the original announcements were and what the final result was. The loan mix deteriorated dramatically. From the Commission proposal, which was EUR 500 million and EUR 250 million, i.e. two to one, we reached almost one, EUR 390 million and EUR 360 million, i.e. 52% of loans and 48% of loans. And, of course, the conditions for grants remain cloudy and with enigmatic type of details. So why do people celebrate? As to what? Haven't we learned of lessons as a political system for twelve years since economic summits? The celebrations, unfortunately, are for communal consumption a few hours. The big difficulties are ahead. The reality is that after months of discussions and negotiations, the idea of an overall European response has been backed up and the fierce ones have been strengthened. What does it mean, however, 'prosperous'? 'Speakers' means that there are'spears'. So, according to the "principal" who won, we are with the "spears" with those who believe that there are money trees in Europe. I am sure that in these four days of horrific negotiation, whenever he participated or was on the sidelines and the Greek Prime Minister understood how horrific and unacceptable the argument for the money trees he said in the House, from this one Step, April. He understood it, I believe, because he heard it and saw it prevail in the negotiation and a deal. I also believe that he understood how useful the Conference of the countries of the South, launched by Alexis Tsipras in 2016, was an effort useful, which was then swept through the media and anti-population and abandoned in July 2019. A great mistake for home, a strategic mistake for home and European cohesion, the wrong perspective for the European future. But there is also something considerably worse that Mr Mitsotakis experienced in Brussels. In the negotiations, he was confronted by a conflict - I ask - with his fellow believers, fellow Members, his Euro-right companions, the European People's Party. The pre-session attendants of the European People's Party beat him to the negotiating table. The big contradiction is that Mr Mitsotakis was looking - if he was looking - for support, assistance, support to the Italian Conde, in the Portuguese Antonio Costa, in the Spanish Pedro Sanchez, that is to say, for those who are not in his family's politics. This is the great deadlock of the Right in both Greece and Europe, that it reproduces deadlocks and cannot create wider alliances, that it creates cyclical and feedback crises. The compromise is therefore neither fair nor reasonable. It is unfair because it brings memorials or regular national memoranda when it is decided at a future summit after the pandemic that all of us should return to balanced or surplus budgets. It brings mini memos or national memos and you will invoke them to catch the disbursement terms each time. Mr. Mitsotakis has reassured us that the famous brake will not be activated. We are, however, deeply concerned that the whole debate these days has taken place. And I really don't understand how we underestimate it. So, in Europe, we do not have sleeks and wastes, we do not have the gutters and the cicadas. The old division of Europeanism or economic nationalism is present and in this case Greece was awkward. What fair and reasonable compromise is it that disappears or cuts programmes such as ‘ORIZON’, ‘ERASMUS’, ‘eu for helth’? What realism is he saying the money will come in the summer of 2021? Why are we celebrating? And a brief reference to Greek-Turkish and Euro-Turkish. We have heard nothing but the fact that Turkey is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u267	Let's hear something about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u268	You will listen, Mr President. These are topical and are issues outside the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u269	You're absolutely right. I agree. The world cannot be burned out without the Member of the European Parliament's opinion. But we're talking about a bill, and you've consumed all your time, and you haven't talked about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, I know the Rules of Procedure, but we have been elected MPs, we have not been elected students to write a test.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u271	I agree with you. The world can't burn out and you can't have an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u272	Here you see in the topical and urgent context what happens
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u273	But all the time you consumed him there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u274	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u275	You're gonna ask me for another six minutes now for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u276	As far as Greek-Turkish is concerned, we have learned that Turkey is a problem. In Greece, what are we going to do about this problem? Are we going to come up with each other? Why didn't we make a Council of Political Chiefs? Why don't we draw up a national strategy? Do we expect it to be a fuss first and then get to know each other? Why don't we do the reverse and avoid tension? Will the National Delegation be informed, the political leaders about where we are? Because in foreign policy and in Greek-Turkish, the country cannot and must not live in a communication bubble. So not only does Greece not raise questions of sanctions and even strong ones, as the government made in the past few days, but it does not even enter the summit. "Possibly," the Prime Minister says, "we will see it from September". I want to believe that if there is tension and crisis, you will do what we have done in foreign policy issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will not do what you have done, we will not make populism and we will be responsible for opposition. Mr President, I should also like to make a brief reference to the bill. The equation you bring, Minister, does not, unfortunately, come out neither environmentally nor economically. The transition to zero-carbon period begins, but does it all concern us? This bill shows that you don't. We all want electricity. We all want green energy. But we are putting the dimension of a fair sustainable green transition for all. This bill photographs specific incomes and specific wallets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Mr Spanakis Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy. Come on, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u278	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u279	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day, a historic day for Greece, a day with a positive sign for Europe. It was a great success for Greek Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, today's success for our country to win over 70 billion for the Greek economy. With this success, our country enters another path, along the path of development, on the path of openness, on the road of seriousness. Because this government also has a plan, it has a horizon ahead and objectives to implement, even though difficulties have come to the world economy and the recession situation in most countries of the world. Starting with my position, I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Kostis Hadjidakis, who accepted the amendment I tabled and giving the possibility of licensing for signs indicative of multi-medium and diagnostic laboratories from the relevant municipal council. Because to date the provision in place since 2001 has enabled pharmacies, health centres, hospitals, but it has not enabled diagnostic laboratories and multimedical hospitals. Minister, thank you very much for having accepted this amendment and in fact we are resolving an issue that has several companies throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece must take great steps to move to low-emission mobility as we show from the lowest rates among the countries of the European Union in this area. Low-emission vehicles account for only 0.3% of all IX vehicles, in fact, most of this percentage is attributed to hybrid vehicles. The current draft law, brought by the New Democracy Government to a vote, lays the right foundations for the development of electromobility in our country. We have an excellent draft law that creates an integrated framework to promote low-emission mobility and has become a constructive consultation, taking into account and incorporating several of citizens' comments, as well as bodies and many arrangements for this. Administrative incentives for the development of electromobility. Economic and tax incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles. Especially significant economic and fiscal incentives for businesses, but also for workers. Incentives for the development of domestic electricity-related electrical vehicles and regional or partition materials and products. The draft law also sets out an integrated institutional framework for the organisation and operation of the electricity market and charging infrastructure. It introduces spatial and town planning arrangements for parking places and the installation of chargers in public areas, new buildings and existing apartments. It sets mandatory targets for the development of loading stations at the TAs, regulates similar topics for taxi dishes. But at the same time we must look at the situation and the reality of Greek. To catch up with the objectives both at national level, but above all, to keep our commitment to Europe for a zero-pollutant economy by 2050, we have to run and do targeted and methodically. It is no secret that electric cars are still expensive for the middle Greek family. However, we can set realistic targets for the transition to electricity, starting with the replacement of public vehicles, urban buses, taxis, wastewater and other municipal vehicles, with brave incentives. These are the most polluting vehicles in towns. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] The last time targeted incentives were given - be careful - to renew the taxi fleet, do you know when it was? It was in 2004, sixteen years ago. I'm sure we've all hit baroque buses, or taxi in the streets of Athens. This bill has taken care of this in every detail. Here too, let me congratulate those who had the coordination, both the Secretary-General and the Minister for this bill. Because this bill has taken care of details such as the compulsory quota for the public supply of clean vehicles in order to modernise the fleet of vehicles. It has provided that 25% of vehicles since August 2021 are electrically. There is compulsory introduction of green selection and evaluation criteria in public procurement procedures related to the use of a vehicle fleet so that candidates with low-emission vehicles may take the lead. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For taxis, installation of charging infrastructure on existing and new plates, so that drivers of electric cabs can recharge vehicles while waiting for passengers. Second realistic objective, the replacement of conventional polluting companies by zero or low pollutants. The bill also introduces specific regulations for this purpose and gives significant incentives to both companies and workers working in these companies. A corresponding scope that can make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives is the industry in short-term car leases, for example during the tourist season both in Athens and in islands, electricity will have significant benefits. The small islands in particular are heavily affected during the summer months by a sharp increase in their vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government with this bill lays the right foundations and establishes an integrated regulatory framework by providing rational incentives for the transition of our country to non-polluting transport. The benefits are many and are proven in the environment, health, but in the economy above all, in growth and, of course, in work. It is up to us to support it, to implement it in practice and not to keep the electricity out of our country a fashion for a few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr Spankee. We continue with the New Democracy and Mr Stylian Georgios.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a reference to yesterday's European agreement before I begin my speech. Europe has once again shown that it has devastated Cassandra and has proved its solidarity in practice. It remains in the difficult times a port of security for our country. I would like to read you something from the statement by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis: "The government has no intention of scattering the money with the neo-purpose. We will work responsibly and wisely and will soon present a detailed production reconstruction plan that will transform the country." Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the promotion of electromobility in our country is another step on the green agenda of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, which in less than a year has given concrete examples of writing, and I am referring to the following: The new national energy and climate plan was drawn up in the context of the European Commission's Green Agreement on the transition to a neutral climate economy by 2050, with ambitious and realistic objectives. It started with a forward defoliation plan of the country until 2028. The submarine electrical interconnection of our islands with mainland Greece is being promoted, the energy polluting plants that pollute the islands and the connection between Crete and Attica was signed with an implementation schedule until 2023. Recently the new environmental law has been passed to simplify the environmental investment process. A modern and European framework is being established for the NATURA regions. The authorisation of RES has been simplified on the basis of European standards to achieve the national target of 35% of final energy consumption by 2050. In addition, the national waste management plan is being implemented that has been improved, updated and the procedures for the auctioning of seventeen new waste treatment plants are progressing quickly. Disposable plastics are withdrawn and moves forward all this comprehensive policy plan of the Green Agenda from our Government. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving forward with a plan, timetable, work and measurable results. Faced with this effort, we have an Opposition that has for years become familiar with ecology and the environment. But we have the 'green' SYRIZA, which is 'green' only in words, because it is 'black' in western Macedonia and the Peloponnese, as it is against lignite'. He is black in northern Evia as he does not care for the pollution of 'LARCO'. It is "black" in the rest of the country, as it canceled the creation of a series of units for modern waste treatment. It's even against the RES, as it fights the wind turbines wherever they are to be created. Even today, in the plan that we are discussing, which moves along the path of common sense and introduces best European practices, opposition speaks of class policy. That's the reality. On the one hand, a government with environmental policy and against an opposition awkward and hypocritical. Ladies and gentlemen, in the electricity sector, we are very far behind. Some hundreds of electric vehicles are only circulating in our country when in other Western and northern European countries their percentage reaches 10%. Therefore, we need to start, in essence, a little above zero, so that we can motivate the market and consumers to create the necessary infrastructure. And that is what this draft law aims to achieve where it aims to give incentives to make the use of electric vehicles more attractive, to develop the network of charging points for the service of electric vehicles across the territory in public and private positions, to form the regulatory framework for the operation of the electricity market, i.e. the charging points and services associated with them. We are all trying to do this by giving first of all an ecological subsidy which, together with tax relief, reaches 25% of the price of cars and other taxi, electric scooters, electric bicycles. Secondly, a rapid installation of chargers at central service points, as well as incentives to install in Greece, especially in lignite areas, battery and carers production units. The details have been developed in detail by both our rapporteur and the Minister responsible. What I would like to stress is that today we are making a first attempt, a holistic effort by the government with the appropriate legislative tools, to put electricity on the table, to see it all with a different eye, more positively, to get into the debate, to take care of it, to start using it, to visit our country tourists who have electric cars, to invest by companies that will create charging stations. Ladies and gentlemen, electricity is not for a few, it is not an elite sport, it is for many, and that is what we are trying to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr. Style. And we close the curtain of the speakers with Mrs. Theophiste Perka of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, while there is a mess and there is a critical situation at national level, we have an interesting issue with this bill and a lot of discussion, while some people celebrate, while we have a cut in funds after the summit, most Members, 80% of co-population Members, have been mentioned in Eye. Listen, firstly, the drama is not always good, it may have taken you out once, and secondly, it could have been said precisely to see the anti-environmental policy of many years that led to disasters. And I'm going straight into the bill. Obviously we agree with the goal of climate neutrality for 2050, because environmental protection and sustainable development are within the core of the Left. The question is to consider whether and whether this bill serves this objective. We recognise that the transport sector is the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions, contributing 27% to total greenhouse gas emissions by cars to represent 44% of them. And, of course, it is also the only area where the burden is increasing. But if we want to talk about a sustainable transport network, the promotion of electricity mobility plays an important role, but in itself it cannot lead to clean human and sustainable cities. It should be part of a wider and comprehensive strategy and be accompanied by further policies such as, for example, sustainable urban mobility plans by promoting mass transport, freight-friendly modes, declining kilometres especially in large urban centres. But, Minister, what I am saying is clearly the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport, which must take the initiative and, of course, it is the scientific object of the transport operators. The respective committee in Europe is DG Move. In any other case, electricity will simply be a fragmentary movement without the desired effect, let alone when the required infrastructure is not available. It is difficult to develop electromobility if there are no charging infrastructures or if we leave, as the bill makes, the market to solve it or regulate itself. Often these sloppy solutions and fragmentary interventions burned the effort. And here I shall refer to the 'big walk' that has taken place without a holistic approach, which has created this whole traffic hub. This attempt undermines future efforts for mild forms of movement. I am afraid, unfortunately, that we are also dealing with a sloppy piece of legislation in this case, as most of the issues are referred to ministerial decisions without a clear timetable. The National Electricity Plan will be issued ex post, while the Ministry of Finance in the bill discusses the classification fees for used vehicles. In any case, I will insist on a few proposals that I think are very worthwhile. In line with the proposals made by GREENPEACE and WWF, in order to achieve full electricity in the transport sector by 2050, a direct announcement of the ending of the sale of cars with internal combustion engines is required, say 2030. There is also the regulation that has been in force since January 2020 and sets stricter targets. I shall not mention, Minister, Norway, Denmark, Ireland and the Netherlands and Sweden. I know what you're gonna answer. However, I can say that Spain aims until 2030 to achieve 100% sales of electric passenger, France has also set a target, as did England. Of course, in all these interventions, what needs to be looked particularly at is the corresponding market, which is already afflicted and afflicted, I would say from the economic crisis, with appropriate aid, but also with sufficient time to adapt to the new situation, which also does not seem to be achieved by this bill and, of course, a fair treatment of domestic and imported second-hand workers, because distortions are created in the internal market, so that we also have an increase in the price of second-hand workers, since imported products do not exist in the domestic market, and therefore, if not an increase, of the old fleet. A number of colleagues have said of the second-hand people in this Chamber. In any case, incentives should be given to buy used Euro4, Euro5 and Euro6 in all forms of fuel, including Euro4 with natural gas or liquefied gas and compulsory withdrawal of older polluting technologies. In these provisions, taxi may also be entered. Of course, in taxis we have a positive provision for a higher rate of aid and a measure for withdrawal. However, the industry has been afflicted anyway and there will be a problem. However, what is very crucial for the promotion of electric vehicles is to start from commercial vehicles, public lorries or private vehicles, so that the city logistics can also be promoted and, of course, the corporate fleets. If the experiment of electromobilization succeeds in this area, penetration will be much easier. But what I want to emphasise again - and, of course, we all understand - is that we must start and lay the basis for public transport. We have here the example of Athens and Thessaloniki - Mr Karamanlis has also been mentioned as the minister responsible - because there a tender for fleet renewal has been cancelled and we will not even have in 2021. At the moment there is also a scandal smell, I would say, in relation to the Municipality of Thessaloniki that buys fifty-year-olds spent outside the specifications, as the Economic Committee changes the specifications. This is a very big issue, and I would like to say to Mr Karamanlis, who is not here, and to you, Minister, because I do not think you have proper information, that the competition has not been cancelled. The Prosecutor's Appeals Authority made a number of comments, which had to be adapted to the administration and the competition had to continue. To cancel him and even to design him and never to have these buses while boredom we say that nice, going for electricity is a very serious problem. I will, however, close my position with some positive one, as I have said in the committee. I am referring to the measures relating to the lignite regions and, in particular, to western Macedonia. I said that it is good to provide incentives for attracting investments in lignite areas, for charging plants, parts, etc., to introduce tax incentives. And I said that because for the first time we see in some bill that it is taken into account, that we take care of these areas. I wouldn't say she's brave. After all, this goes by authorizing provision, which we need to see and discuss. Of course, there are also restrictions and reservations by the GCC. In any case, however, it took a first step. In the committee, too, we said that the budget for electricity, these 100 million, are not coming out very easily and I said that we should not get any money from the Fair Transfer Fund from the money for liberation. But today's news - and I wonder why the New Democracy colleagues celebrate - is not good. The compromise proposal in the North-South compromise provides for less than 20 billion to the Fair Transfer Fund from the Recovery Fund. For Greece this means that it will not get the 1.7 billion with the revised Commission proposal, but some hundred million. There are therefore reasonable questions and a strong concern about the smooth and fair transition which I will, once again and every time, convey to this Chamber the anxiety and outcry of the local society, which faces this frustration without yet any plans, Minister, and without, of course, the necessary funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u285	And we are going to the rapporteurs first, Mr Arsenis, from Mera25. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u286	And I will speak less, Mr President. Thank you. I really wonder how much hypocrisy our society can stand. While public opinion has been asking for what happened in Eye in this tragic fire and in the midst of peaking tension with Turkey, the government is using the bill on electricity mobilisation to bring, to abolish in practice, the forest maps to 55% of the Greek territory and to send to the bells the implementation of the work of forest maps indefinitely, giving financial incentives again to the trampling of 55% of Greece where forest maps had finished, arming the arsonist's hand when everyone talks about what happened in Eye. I really call on the Minister to withdraw this amendment at least at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Arvanitides, you weren't in when they asked for the floor. Would you like a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u288	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Villards?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u290	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u291	Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today we are really at a difficult time for our country because of Turkish provocation, which we see escalating. At the moment there is a real need for what we have been asking for for for a long time, the convening of the board of political leaders. What if it doesn't happen now? The situation is really difficult. We believe that, within the country, when we are dealing with this matter in foreign policy, there must be a consensus, a consensus and not a division of policies within our own country. We believe that the government, whatever moves it makes, should not be behind what took place in 2018 with a corresponding incident, again due to Turkish political provocation. Finally, I would say that unfortunately it seems - but there is always time to change this - the need for an active foreign policy. Not to watch, but to be ahead of the facts and to catch up. I'll have another word. The question of sanctions for Turkey was not discussed at the summit. And that's a serious matter. He was transferred for other meetings. The need to activate measures and sanctions on the part of the European Union is necessary. Of course, the Greek Government must take the lead in this regard. On the contrary, we heard celebrations by many New Democracy colleagues of the 70 billion who came. But it's not 70 billion. It's about 32.5 billion. 19.5 billion is grants and 12.5 billion is loans. But we fear that these will be under certain conditions. We are afraid of possible new memos which are far from good for our already afflicted country and the Greek people. I won't say any more in general. I'm just going to say our place in relation to the bill. Our position is 'the present'. What is very important is that we have analysed this with our positions. Yes, we are clear about electromobility for a number of reasons of the European Union's environmental, objectives, and so on. On the other hand, we are not allowed to vote on this in the sense that this draft law does not solve this issue. There is a start, but there is this Rule 5, Minister, which, even from two of your Members, has been criticised here. Article 5 is about fees, environmental charges and so on. We believe that with what we have today in our hands and we have worked out a start. On the other hand, it favours specific ones. On the other hand, violently restructures the market for used cars. The very important thing is that it does not give a solution as it should - and it gives - to electromobility in the issues of atmospheric pollution for a number of reasons that we have mentioned here in our positions. I shall now speak by closing only for the two amendments. We have the 404 which deals with more environmental issues. We're negative. Remodel a provision of the anti-environmental law that we voted on in May, Minister. It has to do with forest maps and other. On the other hand, the regulations on the Green Fund and the creation of an intermediate body raise issues, opens a window for the administration of the fund not only for deprivation. We would like to say that while you were in your hands by the SYRIZA government, a presidential decree and an establishment plan for the Green Fund, you have done nothing to strengthen staff. Article 5 is unclear in this amendment concerning quartz spaces. More generally, there is a question of transparency and parity. There's probably a lot of things that'll be determined by C.R.A. Well, we're negative for 404. But also for 405, which deals with energy issues, we are again negative. It is not appropriate for the government to privatise gas distribution. Specifically in Megalopolis, it grants the development of the network not to the TEN but to a private person with an NSRP and a public investment programme now depreciating all the investment made in district heating up to now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u293	Close, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u294	For these reasons and for Article 7 on GDP, we really are negative on this ministerial amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Viliardos from the Greek Solution has asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. I did not really want to talk because there is this situation that we see happening today. I think we should be much more concerned with this than with it. What makes us impression is that there is a great secrecy. There is no information, no information from the political leaders. We are also, of course, calling for the convening of political leaders, because it is something that needs to be done and we must not make the same mistakes as we have done in the past. As far as the bill is concerned, we have been placed. We've told the mistakes that exist in this. We made our own suggestions. In the amendments, what I see is that the public investment programme continues to be used for other reasons than its main role. The public investment programme is for investment. It must only be used for them and for anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Minister, would you like to say something before Mr. Bucikaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u298	Oh, no. In the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Boutsikakis has the floor. Five minutes I think that's enough. You're capable of telling everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we have heard SYRIZA's criticism all these days that we have discussed this bill. We are supposedly being accused of a lack of green sensitivity by a party which, as a government for four and a half years, has done absolutely nothing for electricity. He accuses us that the bill is not complete. It says this for a bill which for the first time completely regulates the organization of the electricity market. In fact, I do not want to expand more specifically towards such a completely unfounded, say, criticism when it is obvious that it is only opposition to the opposition. But I am going to be on another subject since we are talking about the environment. Yesterday, in the light of publicity, there were shocking revelations about the practices of extortion and intimidation allegedly exercised by the former chief of firefighting, Mr. Matthew, to the experience of the tragedy in Matti, Mr. Leochos. The then Minister, Mr Gerovas, is absolutely right to tell us that we are not in a position to point out who will file a complaint. But we can show who didn't sue. And of course I mean the former chief of firefighting, Mr. Mathaiopoulos, who was the choice of the then head of the Ministry and obviously of Mr. Tsipras himself and his government. The one who, according to the revelations we have heard, put pressure on the expert, Mr. Leocho, to hide evidence from the finding by intervention of the then political leadership of the Ministry. The one who allegedly used Mr. Capelio at the time to intimidate the expert even more. Of course I'm talking about Mr. Matthews the choice of your government again. The one you're protecting, covering and not suing. Of course you know and hide from the Greek people that in the fires of Mani and Kythera in 2017 the coordinator of the operations of the Peloponnese and Ionian Islands and the head of the fires was Mr. Mattheopoulos himself. I'm figuring out his CV where he's talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u301	Please close this parentheses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u302	We have the Matthaiopoulou trial now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u303	The one who obviously for the good services, a few months later, in February 2018, rewarded and upgraded as Deputy Chief of Firefighting. And after the tragedy in Matti that was there, you placed him in the position of the Chief of the House, again your Mattheaopoulos, Matthaopoulos, who used to party and dance - and I will submit to the minutes the photographs - with Minister Gerovasili in Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u304	What's this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u305	I shall take the floor later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Femmelle, please. So these revelations are justifiable...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u307	Mr. Boutsikaki, have you asked me time to answer for another matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, I would like to speak after the floor. I am entitled to him as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u309	Go on, Mr. Buchikaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u310	These revelations, therefore, rightly create the Greek people, but especially the inhabitants of Kythera, even greater sense of indignation. The people there saw the flames threaten their lives and property and experienced as much as anyone else’s dissolution of the Fire Corps over the days of SYRIZA. At the same time, the public calls of the Mayor of Kythera, Mr. Harhalakis, who was constantly calling for air means are fully confirmed. And instead of air means, she accepted the unprecedented in the chronic impotent attack by the then Deputy Minister of Civilian Protection, Mr. Toska, who, instead of organizing the fire brigade and its planes, saw in the face of the Mayor invisible enemies. And all this, of course, shows that the 'first time left' ruled our country in terms of para-states. Besides, he's done it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u311	That's enough! What else are you going to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u312	Mr. Tsipras and you must apologise for these behaviors. Of course, the reason for this is now the competent prosecutor and the Greek justice, in which we all have full confidence, and I am sure that everything will come to light. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that I have heard the rapporteur's position on Greek-Turkish, and I really have been waiting until the end of today's meeting from your leadership - since you will speak, Mr Famele - at least support for the Greek Government and the Prime Minister for the actions that he has planned to take against a neighbour who is currently arson. National issues are not available for small toys.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u313	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u314	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u315	Of course I understand! It is not possible for Mr Katrugalos and Mr Kotzias to make announcements which are contrary to or undermining the position of the Greek Government. 'The philosopher'. Mr. Spankis knows very well where he sits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u316	Please complete, Mr. Bucikaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u317	Show due seriousness, responsibility and unity appropriate to moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Mr. Bucikaki. If I knew you'd talk about another matter, I wouldn't give you the floor. Here, Mr. Famelle, you have the floor for one minute, and then Mr. Vitch for another minute. Please keep one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u320	Mr President, I consider it an accident for the parliamentary majority to find the rapporteur in this position at the closure of the bill to offend both debate and parliamentary ethics, as well as the truth. Because all the things that she had written from the political and parapolitical "supply" can start from the parastate that the right permanently fuels and uses in her politics. I would ask you to return to both democratic and parliamentary order! Clearly, Ms. Gerovasili has filed press reports against those allegedly interlocutors, but also against anyone disseminating such a lie for her face. If you want to be included in this list, state it here today, because we are not tolerated...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u321	Are you threatening me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u322	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u323	...by no one to affect the price and reputation of any strain.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u324	Please. He's not threatening anyone, Mr. Bucikaki! He's talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u325	We are not tolerated to affect the price and reputation of any left-wing strain! You don't have the political route to get to your mouth political left officials!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u326	Are you threatening me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u327	Please, Mr. Butsikaki!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u328	I think it is an accident for the parliamentary majority that the rapporteur was in this position today and used in an innocuous manner the position to express such provocations against left-wing officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u329	Are you threatening me? Answer me directly!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u330	You said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u331	But I want to make one more thing clear. The question has been raised as to whether we will contribute to the single national front and to supporting our country's sovereign rights. Mrs. Kafantari was very clear. We are also calling for the convening of a Council of Political Heads and a single national attitude to these issues, without even a millennium of sovereign rights being granted. We remind you, Mr President, that we have stated that SYRIZA does not look like Mr Mitsotakis who did a micropolitical thing with North Macedonia, with the policy of the country, patriots, when we won rights and restored the role of the country in both the Mediterranean and the Balkans. We will support, as we have always supported. However, our country must not be delayed. That's what Mrs. Kaftaris said. We want to have the initiative of moves, because peace rests on our homeland. That is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle. Here you go, Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u333	Mr President, I will only speak for a minute. It is certain that the new Republic's rapporteur is suffering from the Opposition Syndrome. Despite the fact that the New Democracy is a government, did it take the floor with evil to see Mr. Hatzidakis and say "Bravo, my child"? Are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u334	What does the President talk about, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u335	The Minister has been here since the morning and he's been tired too. We should hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u336	I am not talking about Mr. Boutsikakis, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. President! I'm asking what he's trying to do with that logic. He talked zero minutes about the bill and five minutes from national issues to Matty. Mr. Buchikaki, we're used to it. After all, as you have said, "the philosopher is philosopher." Isn't that right? And I'll remember the "Clazumenian Feelings"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Vitsa. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u338	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a few very brief final comments. Firstly, at the end of the bill the words 'and other provisions' will be added because of the amendments adopted. Secondly, as far as Turkey is concerned, I have nothing to add but that the country is handling this tension with coolness and determination. That is what the government does and I am sure that both the Greek people and the political forces will deal with the necessary national unity. Furthermore, there have now been statements by the Foreign Minister. Thirdly, and in relation to the bill, I would like to say that it has also been shown by the debate that this bill is a green, an ecological one, a European bill. Greece follows the most advanced countries on the question of electromobility. It is a comprehensive plan for electromobility that has been embraced both by the market and by the citizens. I think that during the debate it seemed how strong the majority arguments were. I am pleased for those of the Opposition who decide to vote in favour, which I think is positive for themselves and I am surprised at others, but of course it is their own account. As this debate is closed, what I want to say is that I am also personally very pleased that I have contributed to getting this far. I would particularly like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport for the cooperation we have had in the preparation of this bill, and of course all the other relevant ministries. However, more than anyone I would like to thank the relevant Secretary-General, Alexandra Sdukos, who has worked for months to prepare this draft law. At the same time, I would like to thank all the group that has worked for months, both at technical and legal level, to move from theory to practice. We will proceed in the next few days in the presentation of the "KINUUMI ELECTRIC" programme and I am sure that the next few months will be months to come to work in connection with the electromobility of many of our fellow citizens who will want to take advantage of one way or another of the incentives laid down by this bill and by the "KINUMAI ELECTRIC" programme, which we will present next week. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy 'Promoting Electricity' is closed. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would point out that the vote includes sixty-six articles, seven amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u340	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u341	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u342	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Promoting electricity and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and on the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u343	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u344	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-21-S1-commons.u345	With the consent of the House at 21.36', the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 22 July 2020 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a debate on the distributed findings of the "Special Parliamentary Committee for preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos in the performance of his duties", on the acceptance or otherwise of the proposal for a prosecution, against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, and on the decision, by secret ballot, on the Commission's proposal and separately for any alleged act or omission, for which a prosecution is sought, as determined and specified in its statement, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution (in particular the par. 3), 153 pp. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 2 and Article 3 and Article 157 of the EEC Treaty. 3126/2003 'Governmental Responsibility' (particularly paragraphs). Article 6, 2 and 3), as applicable.
