ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of Civil Protection: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in Combating Crime’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of a Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who have an objection to their ratification may be given the floor. I propose that there should be a single debate on these conventions and that those who object for five minutes should be given the floor for both. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western gallery of the House, fifty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 3rd Gymnasium of Galatium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] So let's go right now to those who object. Please, please, who wants the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Ioannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece now. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. For the first agreement between our country and Georgia on combating crime, I would like to say that this agreement, despite its title, is, as a party, also contributing to the deepening of what we call the Euro-Union entrepreneurship and repression against the peoples and, of course, to the extension of all of them to new countries. Like all the relevant legislations and conventions, it also relates, from the first article, to the issue of organised crime to that of terrorism, which, as we have repeatedly said, poses very serious risks to the workers and the people's movement, to individual freedoms themselves. I mention a few examples: It is envisaged to exchange all kinds of information between the two countries, including personal data, even without a request from either party, as referred to in Article 4(2), even orally without any wording in the same Article, Article 4 in paragraph 5 below. The possibility, of course, now afforded to the person whose personal data are or will be provided, the person's ability to request that they be corrected or deleted in Article 6, in the next article, namely, an article, is in fact vacant, since he cannot know where they are exchanged and, on the other hand, his request to rectify or delete is not compulsory to be accepted. In any case, for this agreement, serious organised cross-border crime is intrinsic, monitors the development itself and the development of the capitalist system itself, has very high links and is not dealt with effectively with such legislation. On the contrary, these legislations are being used to strengthen the anti-grassian legislative grid, the file and the suppression. These are the reasons that lead us to vote against this agreement. For the second agreement, which comes in the form of the ratification of a protocol between our country and Bosnia, it is also part of the European Union's more general reactive policy on immigration, a reactive policy, because it actually regulates the movement of labour, and indeed of young people, from third countries to the European Union and regulates this movement in a way that ultimately serves the interests of the major European business groups. It is an agreement, that is, within the framework of the European Union's already pursued reactionary immigration policy, and that is why the JRC is also voting against this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. The Merra25 has also voted with reservation. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the two sanctions introduced by the Ministry of Civil Protection. In order not to abuse the time, I shall begin with the first regarding the cooperation between Greece and Georgia. If we look at a recent report from the European Commission on crime and Georgia, we can read: 'The organised criminal groups from Georgia continue to be mentioned as one of the most frequently represented nationals of third countries involved in serious and organised crime in the European Union. They are characterised by a high degree of mobility, mainly active in organised property crime and are particularly active in France, Greece, Germany, Italy and Spain.’ Indeed, there are such groups in our country. In fact, if we look at official figures from the Greek Police for 2018, 12.1% of organised criminal groups are Georgian, with dominating thefts and burglaries, while several house robberies have been characterised by intense cruelty and violence. We all remember, for example, the case of the unfortunate sixty-seven-year-old restaurant owner in Hydra, who was murdered in his home in 2015, during a robbery, while accounts-clearing crimes have occurred in our country, with the most recent one between Georgians and other nationals, in Voula. Indeed, if we think that we are living at a time when there is an increase in the indicators of crime, we think it is our duty to do everything we can to protect and shield our fellow citizens and it is our duty to do everything they can to make them feel safe and protected. Surely this agreement is made up of mainly technical articles and, given the need to ensure the rights of all people to live and to have their property guaranteed by potential criminal acts, as PART25 we will vote in favour of this cooperation agreement. Let us now move on to the second draft law, which is the protocol between Greece and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which concerns the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. I would agree with my colleague from the JRC that he does show the European Union's policy on immigration. It would be useful to point out that the corresponding bilateral protocol, although it is not the first one signed, was signed by our country and with Turkey in November 2001, which was ratified a year later. The European Union-Turkey readmission agreement followed in 2013, which was a basis for the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey. A corresponding protocol, therefore, became the basis of tension in the already existing migration - refugee crisis. It has thus made the lives of thousands of hurting people who have been returned without proper consideration in their case and without the necessary care being taken of what will happen when they return. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the current samples of the Government's writing in dealing with the refugee have been disappointing, with the humanitarian crisis deepening every day and given that this protocol also covers third-country nationals or stateless persons, unfortunately we do not have much room for optimism. We believe that Europe must be open, a Europe without fences, a Europe without bricks, a Europe without deportations without criteria and without hosting camps, and that is, in practice, a concentration camps. Given the bad precedent with the agreements concluded with Turkey and Mera25's consistent views on the refugee crisis, which is a major humanitarian crisis and it is now time to deal with it, we can only vote against this protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u8	And we thank Mrs Bakadima. We move to the Greek Solution, which for the government's agreement with the Georgian Government to cooperate in the fight against crime, has voted "without reservation" and "without reservation" in the second, on the agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without permission. Mr. Antonis Mylonakis, a special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, readmission of persons residing without authorisation, ratification of a protocol agreement between the Hellenic Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I can't understand, Mr. Government ministers, what's going on with you. Even SYRIZA did not reach such a point to raise the Greek society so fiercely. By decision of the Group and of the President I visited the islands, I went Mytilini, Chios, etc. What's going on there is another thing. And I asked you and I told you in committee: These all the people on whom we will now sign to come back and who are not entitled to asylum and who have left in 2015, 2016, 2017 from our homeland and have gone to different countries in Europe or outside, in third countries, how do we now have to accept them back and where to put them? There is a figure for over six hundred and seven hundred thousand people who - he says - are not entitled to, and must at some point come back to the country from which they went, in the first host country, to us, the islands, Minister. That's where they're going. And you're coming to get us an agreement ratification. Whatever the European Union, this Germany, finally, the German-State European Union. Why would I tell you something? It all started with the agreement between Germany and Greece. The government of SYRIZA has badly gone and voted, while Italy did not vote and you saw how they fell and the flows, you saw that Italy left with Cody and you left the game and left us and Spain. Greece signed in 2015, November, and in 2018, these people who are not entitled to asylum and who have left our country and have gone to countries in Central and Northern Europe to have the right to come back. And now you are calling on us to sign, at the same time as an incredibly good and fair decision of the European Court of Human Rights, with Mr Sisiliano, who today, if you go to committee, on the Senate, will see him speak. What does that decision say? The people who seek to illegally enter a country - and because Spain has done this - and there have been massive deportations - are therefore entitled to a border which seeks to be trampled, and even from points which are not entry points, without permission, to return them back - that is, the so-called 'push back' - with direct and mass deportations, without any action being illegal. That's what took out the court. I think that the President of the Greek Solution - because he is here and I thank him for coming at the time I am speaking - has said so many times, the push back, although many thought we'd drown them at sea, that's how you came to mind and started saying 'what push back, how push back', someone said 'with pumps will become the push back'. No, gentlemen. Mass deportations. The court now took it out, gave us permission, and you invite us to come and sign this thing. Oh, no! Sittingly, no! The Greek Solution will not do that in Germany, will not do the grace of Austria, will not do the grace of any European country that has left Greece alone, alone and desolate! The Greek Solution will vote against this illegal, extremely illegal, and with the European Court of Justice' s boulder now, an agreement. No re-entry of those who have left our country, because if that is the case, we must send everyone directly to their countries now! On the issue of Georgia I was vertical, and the Greek Solution said that, of course, such an agreement must exist for the exchange of information on all these issues which aim to better control the borders, as far as criminals and gangs are concerned. We know very well what Georgian gang means in Greece. We know very well that the robbery is a daily phenomenon for these people. So we have to get the information. We are in favour of this agreement and we are voting in favour of it. Before I arrive at the Step, I would like to submit a document from the Municipal Unit of Mandamadou. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a resolution to the government. They all now say 'no to our islands second hot spots'. You insist. The resolution is here. Here's the decision. Mayor Mademadou gave it to me and I testify to it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also because Mr. Metarakis says that the matter is over and the hot spots are frozen to be made, here's what I have here. This document shows that in Samos this is going on. Do you know how much it costs? One thousand container for 10,000 euros is 10,000,000 euros. It's a lot of money, and that's only about a thousand containers, which fits four thousand people, that is, four people each. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonios Mylonakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Greek Solution, always faithful to what he said in an election, is always doing it for Greek and Greece. Yes to ratify an agreement with Georgia, not to re-enter from countries in Central and Northern Europe or from third countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. The President of the Greek Party, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor for five minutes, with a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by coming this morning from the Old Faliroe, I did about one hour to get to the House and had to revert to the archive and see how many meetings were held throughout the country for the five-year period of SYRIZA. Eighteen thousand sixty - seventy - seven in five years. If we think that there is a state in which for five years eighteen thousand sixty - seven meetings have been held, make divisions, to understand that this state does not exist, nor in Africa. We have made the country an African-type democracy, in which 50 - 100 people can go and close roads, they can also make incidents, fly a molotov - and be a flood, it doesn't matter - carry it and deliver it and they are not punished. These are the incoherences of a pseudo-democracy. The indiscriminate right to strike, to protest when abuse occurs, falls. It is an undeniable fact that this '74 democracy' has never seen it seriously. I remember in the past because some workers thought that the businessman hurts, closed the companies, closed the locks, closed out, left PIRELLI, left one company, the other industry, all disappeared. They did the impossible work for New Democracy and PASOK to close them and we left a desert country where the children - I see and on the gallery the thirteen-year-olds and fourteen-year-olds, high school children must be - in the eighteenth years they will enter the university and think about how they will go abroad to find jobs. Because all of you did not understand that abuse of a right is no longer a right, it is tyranny. This tactic leads the country to tyranny. Think of how many working hours have been lost today, think about how many shops have not worked, think about how much lost work people may not have even had, not even opened up their cash machine. And he speaks of a man who has business. Since the morning at a shop where I didn't enter a client, there hasn't been a single receipt cut or two euros! You're asking the businessman who owns the store how it works? And I'm talking about abuse. Another use and another abuse. Athens is dead! It's over! For a whole day the citizens of Athens have been punished and, of course, no one speaks here. Think about the pain of businessmen. With party strikes - I'll say it this way for some to understand - our homeland was torn apart. With strikes simply for the strike Greece is torn apart and you lose the quintousity of the right, the claim of seriousness. And these syndicates that were deceived weren't randomly deceived. Three hundred people down there again, let it be a thousand. In the five million of Athens, a thousand people will gather together today, take a course, do their revolutionary gymnastics, and then say that we did the self-evident thing. This isn't a strike. Strike means that I do go down and down and down, all Greece doesn't work. One day a year, yes! That means strike. Everything else is to pass the time and people on the left say 'workers must make strikes'. So our physical presence is legitimate and essential, while not looking at tomorrow, the future of our children. Clearly, strikes must be made. It is a constitutional right, but the use - I repeat - of abuse of the right. We are a country where the law does not exist. There is no law, no law being observed, and when there are laws, everyone interprets them as they wish. What you see out in Athens today is the image of a vicious state, a state that has no structures, a state that cannot at last give the self-evident right to a citizen to strike or not to do, if he wants. Because many workers may not want to strike. Remember, some people who didn't want to make a strike, strikers, beat 'em, knock 'em out in the past, buses if you remember, and all that happened. Unfortunately, Greece ends, friends and friends, and I will say it because, today, the KKE managed to redouble all the streets of Athens with the "red" but the indignation of the citizens was also the indignation of the people. You see cars from the Constitution - because from Syngrou, from the coastline I came down to "Handres" down to "Marriott", had stopped cars. You can tell me, but that's what we're talking about today? No, but it's a pathogen, it's a reality that neither the New Democracy dared either the PASOK nor SYRIZA, nor any party to see. And if this goes on in a country that does not produce wealth and lose working hours and lose production process from these stories, we are finished. There's no future. New Democracy must finally bring in a bill, a serious law, for this story with a ban on protests closing the streets. That's not happening! Let the party called New Democracy be serious, which is considered a liberal. If that was the case, liberals, anyway, what to talk about. We shall now go to the Bosnian pact. Mr President, I would ask for a little tolerance in time, because I think this is a much more serious matter and demonstrates the pity with which, unfortunately, you are commanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u12	Please continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u13	What are you doing today, you know? It says a news release on this channel: people who made fake papers were arrested and counterfeited. Instead of giving them a bonus to get everyone out of here, you're arresting them and you're shutting them down. What are you doing with this deal? Those who left here and are in Bosnia will bring them back to Greece! In other words, Greece is Europe's experimental animal! Everyone shares their borders - I am not talking about the countries of Visegrad - Spain, a judgment of the Court of Human Rights, and you consider Greece to be a clear vine! I don't get it! They'll all be back. I won't tell you exactly what the deal says. You probably didn't read it well. I put it in the Minutes, because it says a lot of things you don't understand. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because if they go back with the Turkey-European Union agreement, we will not be able to send them back to Turkey again. Do you understand what you're doing? And he says it's about forty thousand, another forty thousand will come to us here. I spoke to a fellow journalist from Bosnia-Herzegovina last night. He told me that they count forty and seventy thousand people who left Greece and went there and stay there, he's there. Seventy thousand more? What right are you doing this with? And how do you send them back when they get back to Athens? Do you understand what you're doing? Do you realize you're doing Greece, a country, a laboratory animal? Do you experimental Europe in Greece? You've done it with the memoirs, you've all done it! One, two, three, four, five Memorandums, implementing laws! Did you make her an economic test animal, even do it in her national survival? What's Ellas? The animal of all? Of course, you're lying, too, a lot of lies, and that bothers me. I have the official statement from the Commission and the European Council. I've transcribed her, she's here. Forty thousand illegal immigrants on the Greek islands, the aim is to transport to European continental Greece. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Mylonakis, you're making a mistake. The European Commission and the Commission say that the aim is to transfer to mainland Greece those on the islands. Do not close the borders, my Minister - who come every day and others - they must be constantly transported to mainland Greece. What are you doing? I mean, it's unbelievable what's going on. I think it's incompetent. If it's not a plan, it's incompetent. Otherwise you are dangerous to Greece! You're too dangerous for the place! Of course, listen to the worst of all: Here's the mystery. Here is the transcription - I will put it in the Minutes - where the European Union says that this New Democracy tale is not the case, of Mitaraki, who every week also has a plan. It reminds me of the man who was planning the Arta's weed, the whole day he was building it, the night he was falling apart. Now he says "false" and does the frost at the same time, because "false" with fine yoga is another and "false" with yatas is another thing or with defeat and I say it to understand it. It says Europe: "You will transfer them to mainland Greece, you want, you do not want", which means that your Europe has for experimental animals, our country, to stay here. And I ask: are others getting ready from Syria to come. Do you understand that? What's the worst? They also do OAED for 'immigrants', he says - within introductory terms immigrants - illegal immigrants. Are you doing OAED? Are you all right? So how are we going to get them back on track after we're doing the OAED? I'm sure they're staying here! The OAED says, for farmers who are scooped by the government. Who are you kidding? I mean, incompetence, mocking - I don't know what it is, in any case - a smuggling? I understand that the MPs disagree, but your Prime Minister in his mind has other things, if you understood it, Mr Mitsotakis or the group on it. I will not say about the European Court of Justice. I'll say something else, though. In seven months with New Democracy, hundreds of forty people returned - Minister's document - twenty per month. Twenty a month! So you will need to rule five hundred thousand years to leave the people who are here today. Hey, no, we don't want to, guys, that's enough! Seven months, if you've been sitting there for a thousand years, we're burned! I mean, what can I say? From where I catch you - I honestly say that - there is a question. Of course - by closing down, Mr President - I should like to say what you are doing with the EEZ and Libya. Gather people around the Prime Minister, something Dokus, something "sticks" something I don't know what they're called! Pick them up! Mrs Bakoyannis meets with ELIAMEP again to tell us how good The Hague is and how good the MOIs are. Confidentiality measures while flying aircraft over the Aegean cannot exist. It's like you're being raped, too, to think it's sexual intercourse, but with reciprocity that you already like. Hey, it's not like that, guys! And I say it elegantly, isn't it. Let me tell you what's worse and I'll close here: The Turklove Pact will be yours. The Turkish pact and what you're going to do with The Hague will be the new Imia of the country, like the Imia of Simitis, because while you could prevent and testify coordinates in the UN - ours, Greek - you never did. It is over forty days now that this story begins to be ratified and formalised, it begins to create data for too long and yet the new Imia of the New Democracy will be the Turklivic Pact and a new national failure that the next generations will pay. Instead of calling Haftar again, you should go to Damascus, the other Assad, has taken the kicks of the Turks, has surrounded them in many places and instead of calling him, to make good relations with Syria, you are making good relations with America, which supports Erdogan against Assad. To understand how vile you are, vicious in foreign policy. Haftar comes out and says to Erdogan: "If there were not the Arabs, you would still love the fire on the steppes of Asia." That's what he told them. I will do it otherwise: If there wasn't the Byzantine Empire, the Mongols, who came out of the gates of the city, would eat each other. These are the Turks, that's the reality. However, I repeat that you are not thinking properly and are not doing well. I'm glad that at last one of the prosecutors are investigating real estate purchases in Lero. Look at it a little, with offshore they have bought too many properties. Too many real estate! I talked to a vice mayor in the area and he tells me that no one knows what's going on in the basement room, through foreign companies buying Lero real estate. Do you understand? Turks are looking for it today yesterday. Of course, I'll give you this to understand that you're a loser. Minister, your Prime Minister's statement: "I will finish with Exarches in a month!" You're probably the old date for you seven months is a month? One year is a month? Ten years is a month? But politics can't be done unless the law and order are enforced, if you don't make mass deportations, if you don't push back, if you don't take them to the inhabited islands. Why don't you put them in residential areas, and why can we make structures there? I have a proposal, which I won't say today, I'll call it next week. We can solve the problem. He wants to, but you have a Prime Minister who's an anti-anti-anti-anti-tubist. For those who don't know what the word nativism means, it's love for the nation's selfishness. We have a prime minister, we have your Chief who says we're bastards from Africa, get out of here now. This is not a Greek Parliament, it is a Parliament of multicultural and other theories about bastards. This is not the case, politically, unfortunately. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much for the President of the Greek Solution Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos. We'll close with the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr. Economou, you have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling on to vote on the Protocol on the Implementation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the application of the Agreement between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation and the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on cooperation in the fight against crime. It is known that readmission agreements are a mechanism for the European Union and the Member States to manage effectively migratory flows on their territory. It is, in fact, a major tool in the context of immigration policy, which contributes to facilitating and speeding up the removal of irregular immigrants and their return to the country of origin or transit. We are all aware of the extremely increased pressures and the huge weight of migratory flows that European countries have to face every day, but much more Greece as a gateway to the European Union. The Greek Government attaches particular importance to the effective treatment of this issue and in this direction implements the integrated plan which it has drawn up on a day-to-day basis. At the same time, it respects its international obligations, operates within the framework of European Community solidarity and essentially today ratifys the Protocol implementing the Agreement, which exists between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This protocol has been signed since 2015 and in this context the Government, demonstrating the special strategy that it develops in response to irregular immigrants, comes and accelerates the ratification of this Implementation Protocol. I would like, however, to make a request here - and I would say - that we also falsify the meaning of this agreement, given that readmission and re-importation concern those third-country nationals who have gone to Bosnia-Herzegovina through a European Union state. Consequently, all these concerns expressed about the group relaunching of thousands of immigrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina, you know very well that they do not exist, are simply said for reasons of impression. However, I believe that no more clarification is needed to convince you about this. As far as the question of ratification of the agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Georgia is concerned, it is now known that organised crime, terrorism is working internationally, before and after many times, because this cooperation between the various criminal groups is incapable of complying with a specific legislative framework. The Member States must, however, cooperate, they must develop such a framework of international cooperation. I would also like to assure those of whom have expressed reservations about the agreement that there is a strict framework, which protects personal data and the whole framework for the exchange of information and no class - much more popular classes - face any threat to any framework of cooperation between countries. This is a concrete, strict framework. On the contrary, the risk to the people's classes arises from the uncontrolled and unconditional cooperation of the various criminal groups, who, as long as they feel there is no framework for transnational cooperation, are so encouraged in their criminal activity. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that such agreements are deemed necessary in order to establish mutual trust between our country and other countries in the neural area of security. The organisation and development of individual criminal activities and the establishment of criminal groups, moving beyond national borders, have made it essential for their successful response to the coordination and cooperation of the competent authorities at bilateral, regional and international levels. On this occasion, I would also like to point out - because a lot has been said about the policy to address the critical issue of immigration - that the government has a specific strategy to address this issue. This strategy includes seven priorities, such as strengthening border guarding, speeding up the asylum process, new closed control centres, returns of illegal immigrants, control of NGOs, effective internationalisation of the issue and strengthening of local societies. In this direction we are moving firmly, with specific policy, with concrete steps and very quickly there will be visible results. However, these issues must be dealt with without any impression and with the great attention it requires, given that this issue has now taken a national crisis. As far as the hints made about Greek-Turkish and 'New Democracy' are concerned, I would like to stress that it is good - and this has been proved - in critical circumstances for our country to have a framework of national unity. The government and the Prime Minister personally face the whole matter with due care, in consultation and in a framework of national solidarity. We should have confidence in the government. We are all determined to maintain and protect our national laws, as the patriotism of all requires, and it is important not to monopolise the patriotic feeling and sense of doing the duty towards our country unilaterally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too, Minister. I was asked by the Parliamentary Representatives to speak. You should have said that before the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u17	I don't understand. Parliamentary representatives have asked for the floor. Would you take him away?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u18	No, I don't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u19	Don't you talk, why are everyone gonna talk? What are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u20	Wait a minute, Mr. Bukowo. Before the Minister was here, you could have spoken. I said, we're closing with the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u21	I raised my hand, but you didn't see me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u22	I'm sorry. So it's my fault. I didn't see you raised your hand. Sometimes you yell for more. Why didn't you yell? I don't take no word from anyone. Do you want to create impressions? I'm not taking the word away from anyone. To remove him, I have to give him to you. I'll give it to you. But everybody.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u23	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u24	We'll start with Mr. Bukowo. Or do you want to go backwards? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u26	But Mr Janakopoulos is your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u27	I can call him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u28	Let's start with Mr. Bukowo, 'cause I saw he was upset. I'm sorry, but I didn't see him. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, there is no irritation or anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u30	You dragged it away from me today!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u31	And not even when the speech is given to a party needs to be accompanied by comments. You may accuse us of creating impressions, but impressions are created when the granting of the right is accompanied by observations, asterisks and so on. In any case, first of all, I heard of today's strike being held by other parties, and I must point out that today's strike is purely politically motivated. We all know which powers. Four whole years of governance SYRIZA we did not have a great strike mobilisation for any reason. Today we are talking about political paradoxism by the motivated trade unions. In other words, we are not talking about a strike based on the whole of the workers. We are talking about a strike which is afflicting all the workers and all the citizens with the traffic chaos in Athens today. What are they looking for? What are the demands of strikers today? To abolish the Katrugalu law for which they have not organized a single major strike! Not a big strike!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u32	You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u33	I am not talking about PAM, Mr President. I am referring in general. I refer also to the SYRIZA trade union forces who are today supporting the strike. They come and seek the abolition of a law to which they have never reacted! That's a trade union insanity. And the new insurance is indeed abolishing the Katorugalou law abolishing this insurance looting. And what does the new insurance bill bring? It only brings positive measures. This is the first time after twelve years, several insurance laws have been passed, which do not reduce a single pension. On the contrary, many are increasing, today's workers and tomorrow's pensioners are favoured. And not just that. They favour future generations. It is the first time that an insurance system is coming for which there is a proportionate study, which means that a serious job has been done, and there is also a study by the Athens University of Economics on the adequacy of pensions by 2070. In other words, the foundations for a definitive solution to the issue can be found. Mr. President, these are things...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u34	The insurance's coming. I'll talk to you. Keep your shape.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u35	Let me explain, Mr President. Did you see that there should not be any comments? You gave me some time, you cut me out. That's what they heard. I'm a representative of the ruling party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u36	You are a parliamentary representative. I know. But to talk about both agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u37	I must respond to what has been heard in this Chamber. So why are you interrupting me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u38	No one spoke of insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u39	Didn't you hear the Chief of Greek Solution talking about the strike?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u40	I heard him. He talked about the strike. I left you. The insurance company didn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, we are not going to come to an agreement. I'm sorry, but we can't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u42	We can come to an understanding. You're talking about pensions, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u43	Mr. President, why are you interrupting my release?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u44	Please, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u45	So I'm telling you, this is the first time that there's been serious work going on. And today we have a strike in the means of transport and all Athens is suffering, half the Greek population is suffering. Are these two issues irrelevant, Mr President? Why are they strikes, why are they afflicting people today? For a bill that first brings positive measures? They need to justify their current decision the trade unions who are both involved in the PAME and SYRIZA, who are behind today's strike, when especially those who are attending the former ruling party and now Dedicated Opposition had not made a four-and-a-half-year strike, with the Katrugalo law of May 2016 abolishing rights, cutting 30% by the personal difference between the new pensioners, shrinking everything. We didn't hear a single rifle in the air. And today Athens is freezing. They're judged by the Greek people. But in the end few will not succeed in afflicting and oppressing the many. As for what has been said about the Turkey - Libyan agreement - on immigration, I do not go in at all because the Minister answered - a serious issue has been fully worked out, which the government is trying to deal with and we hope to have results soon with the implementation of the law passed on to the Turkey - Libyan agreement and all this. I have said many times that in this Chamber, there should be no position of other forces or good intentions, because, when the idea of something serious is being done by Turkey, the country's position is weakening. The post on the UN website of the Turkey- Libya False Agreement is of such value as the announcement of a trial in the court pin. Anyone can sue, sign the case. That does not mean either that he is right or that he is in favour of something. And we'll talk about this in this Chamber. We are creating constant perceptions, we are favouring their psychological operations across the street and, in general, I believe that we are harming the country if we are not careful. Let us not forget that this agreement has been condemned by the European Union, by the United States, Russia, by all the Mediterranean countries. Let's not forget the Cairo Summit. Let us not forget that all international actors have expressed themselves against. And we come here and say this is the new Imia of the country. We consider that to be a given. We're freezing it. This is not a proper position. I'm not saying it's done, if you want, deliberately to cause harm to the country. It can be a philosopher. But I say what results the Greek people have made both in the psychology and in the country's international position to adopt positions and even distorted, unjust and condemned ones against the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u46	We also thank the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Bukoro. I'm going to give the floor to Mr. Aylonite. He's a rapporteur, anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u47	So Mr. Kyranakis will also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u48	The rapporteurs will therefore also speak. I want to talk, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u49	This is not a procedure, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u50	He's replacing Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u51	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u52	This is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u53	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u54	If the rapporteur speaks, I will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Janakopoulos is in the canteen, he sees and can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u56	Mr President, listen. This procedure is not foreseen. We are two Parliamentary Representatives here. I asked for the floor myself and Mrs Lykoulis. Because if the rapporteur takes the floor, Mr Kyranakis will also rightly ask to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u57	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u58	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u59	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u60	If the Rules of Procedure were to be respected, then Mr Velopoulos and any representative of the party would not be given the opportunity to get away from the subject of the debate and to place himself on what is happening in the world and our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u61	Please, he's a party leader. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u62	So you realise that there is a practical problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u63	You can tell me I made a concession to Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u64	There is the practical problem. Mr. Janakopoulos had a job. We would ask the rapporteur to respond to what has been said today in the context of the democracy that the New Democracy claims. I don't think it's too much. It's absolutely democratic. And in any case, the grammar and grammar interpretation of the provisions many times - I have seen it here - is not fully observed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u65	As you have seen, I gave you the floor. I have no objections. I agree with what you are saying, but I also have to give the floor to Mr Kyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u66	Yes, of course. Mr. Cyranaki, are you forbidden?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u67	No, I don't disagree to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Aylonite, you'll answer Mr. Velopoulos, so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u69	Just answer him if you're kind. I was very impressed by this. Naturally, it is the President of each party, each parliamentary group, to set the subject up and to raise issues of more general interest in the debate on a bill, in this case of ratification. But in the ten, twelve minutes that he spoke to them he dedicated to a very important key issue that has dealt with modern political history for years, namely the right to strike, concentration and progress. It is clear both from the fact that a merger-restriction bill is to be tabled and voted on. But I must stress in particular that the destruction of our country in recent years and in the leap years that we have spent is not due to the concentration that is taking place outside the House or on a course which, in any case, must indeed be a restraint on the trade union movement. Regarding the issue to which the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative referred in relation to the strike, that everything was silent during the country's governance by SYRIZA, I have to say the following. Where and how far has it emerged that SYRIZA either as a government or now as a opposition controls the trade unions in this country and decides by pressing a button so that they can strike or not strike? Furthermore, I would like to refer to what Mr Velopoulos said, and I shall end with that, if you would like to be kind enough. Mr. Velopoulos reminds me of the two initial speeches, when for the first time I came to the House and Mr. Mitsotakis and himself personally, when the first Prime Minister spoke, about Ellis Island, and he continues to speak both then and today about the islands that modern history is so burdened by what happened there. We are not saying to implement international legislation, internal legislation, to internationalise the issue, to make it clear to the European Union that the immigration problem is a European issue. In that sense, if we don't see it that way, then you realize that our state is going too far. And I told you in committee that the image of the European world, which also has its responsibilities, but also of all humanity, is misguided, especially at the time when the influx has quadrupled on our islands. And I was surprised by Mr. Kumucascus yesterday. Is it possible to say such phrases and be justified so and to oppose SYRIZA, when, I repeat, four times more have come to our islands? And the government is hesitant about dismantling the islands - and I am ending with this, Mr President - and actually wants to identify, identify, close the problem of the political costs that it seems to have on the islands alone and not jeopardise the political costs of the entire Greek territory. In my personal opinion, it must be very serious and, above all, it must restrict the words that Mr Kumoucasos says by putting the responsibility of immigration even now to SYRIZA. The New Democracy is in power. Mr. Mitsotakis is in command. He'll have to answer the problem today. Mr Kumouchakos and the government must respond to the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too. Mr. Delis has the floor for a statement for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u71	And less, Mr President. A brief statement, Mr President. Today's strike, for which so much "chole" was made here today in this Chamber, is the best welcome and the best answer to the insurance "extraction" submitted yesterday by the government, a "extract" insurance that comes to update and implement in the most aggressive way the well-known Katorugalou law, for which major struggles were held throughout Greece and outside the Parliament. Be assured that those who are working for insurance plans against the workers of this country will continue with even more tension so that the workers of our country and, in particular, youth do not lose their insurance and social rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by diplomatic theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, thirteen members from the delegation of the Polish-Greek Parliamentary Group of Friends of Friends and Friends, together with the Commissioner and adviser of the Polish Embassy in Greece. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The reason for this is the special speaker Evangelia Likikolis from the Change Movement and then the Greek Solution will be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u74	But now they have to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u75	He asked for the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I first heard the Minister and heard the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, as well as the other colleagues, as well as the President of Greek Solution. We have a strike today which has paralysed the country and you, for others, are smuggling. It's like living on another planet. All you have to say is that this strike is instigated by others. You are interested in the region and you are not interested in the substance. You never focus. Describing the strike, you think that this is how it vindicates you and that in the consciousness of the Greek people it is a process that is critical. You're not saying your trade unionists participate in the front line. Your people are involved. They are the ones who are exterminating and saying, "until when will you finally be mocking us?" by SYRIZA Skla in Haryd of New Democracy. The Katorugalou law is always the insurance bill you bring to the House and you're taking it for this. And you say that it is the change of the century that we will see better days and reshape the situation in Greece and the workers and the self-employed and bring about a new era. And you don't see what's going on around you. You've got blinkers. you have been shut down in the glass of your state of staff with the staff and the officers and the staff, which I do not finally understand what all these staff are doing. You have blindfolds and you don't see that our islands have paralyzed together with the country. You don't see that your people come out on the streets of the islands and flood the beaches, to say from the ports "give us our lives, give us our islands back". You don't see that the doctrine "law and order" will come out of you. You're getting ten and they're coming back twenty. You don't see that in our national issues we're with the back wall. Your honourable parliamentary representative referred to the Cairo meeting and did not even refer to Berlin and did not even talk about being with the back wall. You did not see the embarrassment of our democracy after the embarrassment of our diplomacy. You did not see that in our national Ping-Pong issues we are being played in reality and you have absolutely nothing to say and you have no guts to convene and the National Council of Political Heads in order to put the right dimension to the national theme of the Greek-Turkish and refugee refugees, where you have done an order, that you abolished a Ministry and rebuilt it, which you made yesterday, you took it back and said "we give the local communities the opportunity to agree with each other and then tell us their unanimous decision". But where do you say that? Which world are you in? Is it possible to discuss with us after everything that the country has been through in the past decade and insist that you have learned absolutely nothing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So get out seriously and say that we have very serious issues that we need to deal with at national level, with a national and patriotic character. Come out and say that your refugee has left your hands, this is an uncontrolled situation and there must be a national policy. Or do you think the campaign in Afghanistan recommends that your national policy on the subject be quintuosity?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u77	Finish, Mrs. Liikali, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u78	Can you with aspirins solve the issue? You can't. Only your power, the power of the majority and the ruling party can truly give us a way out on these major issues? It can't be. Instead of banging those people on the road today, whether they are motivated, as you say, or not, you must diagnose that there is a problem. You are a fresh government and you have too many problems, which I feel are swallowing. You have to act. You need to leave this glass in which it is located. Open your eyes. See what's going on in Greek society. The Greek society is shouting. He paralyzes the state, paralyzed Athens, paralyzed the country, paralyzed the islands. Wake up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u79	I'm imagining it in introductory terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u80	Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. It is not much that I have to say. I will begin by saying that the President of the Greek Solution clearly stated that there is a constitutional right for the strike workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u82	That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u83	Just the way it is. What he said is that strikes should not be abused, as is usually the case in recent years. He said that during SYRIZA’s rule there were eighteen thousand meetings and that is abuse. But there is not only the right of workers to strike, but there is also the right of entrepreneurs to work, and in this case businessmen with these strikes are prevented, just like all of us. So strikes must work properly. With regard to the next piece said by Mr. SYRIZA, that the President of the Greek Solution was referring to horns, he obviously did not refer to horns. From the outset, it refers to islands where specific structures should be made to accommodate immigrants. So he didn't refer to either dryness or any Ellis island. As to how the government manages migration, it clearly said that the strategy is wrong, and indeed that there is not even a strategy, but that it changes every time. Every time, that is, the government does something else, leaves the precedent and the problem is constantly growing. The transfer of immigrants from the islands to the mainland is obviously the worst one a country can do. In particular, it referred to Bosnia, saying that we have absolutely nothing to gain from this agreement. Obviously, there will be no illegal immigrant who we will send from Greece to Bosnia, but there will certainly be the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, too. Mr. Gregoriadis, I would just ask you if you'd like to take the floor, because you're the only one who didn't speak and you're from the start in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. After reminding everyone who we are here, that we are here to talk about two international conventions - I think Mrs Bakakima has covered the position of Mera25 in great detail, she explained why we are in favour of the first and against the second - I would like to make a small comment on what has been heard in the Chamber over the last half of the hour. Mr President, after eleven consecutive years, which contained three very tough memorials for the country - which I would remind you, I am sorry to say, disappeared 26% of our gross national product, sent about sixty-five thousand businesses to the enclosure, sent two hundred with about two hundred thousand, maybe more, young people abroad, poorly populated the whole society, cut off wages, cut off pensions - it is at least acidifying to talk about civil suffering from a twenty-four-four strike. I am sure, Mr President, that the citizens of the country have been afflicted much more in the past eleven years. I also want to say a few things about the strike. I imagine we all know that it is an age-long conquest and any question of this conquest would automatically turn us into the Middle Ages. I would also like to say to the New Democracy side that, if so wonderfully it was the new insurance regulation, not all Greek workers would have gone crazy to participate in the strike. Furthermore, their trade unionists will not be insane to urge their members to participate in this strike. It is clear, therefore, that we are dealing with a strike which is a constitutional right of workers and, most obviously, we, as Mera25, consider this strike to be the happiest event that has happened in our country over the last few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too. Now we're going to hang up with the minister, but you know that. There's no way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I too have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u88	You have asked for the floor, but the parliamentary representative, Mr Kyranakis, has spoken and we will get away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u89	So, with the agreement of my colleagues, you are taking the floor away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u90	Don't tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u91	I don't disagree, Mr. Cyranakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u92	It wasn't Mr. Janakopoulos. One spoke from SYRIZA. Please! Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u93	We have again heard a sterile complaint about all the issues, denounce the government and, if we go back to the past, we will hear them again and repeat them for various reasons. The government's interest in the worker is undeniable and this fact has proved so over time. We see when the standard of living of workers is increasing, when their rights are safeguarded, and who is who really ensures the rights of assembly and strike, without pushing them to abuse this right. As you know, very soon, the government, loyal to government announcements, will also bring a draft law for discussion, which will for the first time regulate the right of assembly, as appropriate in a European democratic state, in line with the constitutional requirement. The Constitution stipulates that this right of assembly should be exercised as the law defines, but for fifty years after the transfer no one dared to regulate this. Very briefly, we call on you to see this with great care, outside dogmatic claws, so that we can once really ensure, in the way that it is appropriate, that this right of assembly is respected. As far as insurance is concerned, we are all aware of the situation in which the insurance system and the essential interest the government displays - within the framework of the financial possibilities - to ensure, in the long term, the insurance rights of workers and, in general, to ensure better conditions and, in the context of the economic potential, to lift - the nuisances and all these problems created by the Katrugalos Act. As far as the balances are concerned and as far as national issues are concerned, I would just like to reiterate that there are defined national lines. The government faithfully follows these. The Prime Minister and the relevant ministers are moving in this direction. The country's international image has changed significantly in recent years. There are both European Union and United States of America and other allies with clear positions in favour of national law. From there on, I think we must all have confidence in the government, but also in the political forces as a whole. This is no time for patriotic sticks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, too. The debate on the principle of the articles of the Bills of the Ministry of Civil Protection is closed: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in Combating Crime’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. 'Preparation of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation'. Their vote will be taken separately. The vote will take place electronically, but only the rapporteurs and the special speakers vote. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in Combating Crime". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened for the first draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u95	I would ask that we close the electronic voting system for the first draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u96	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u97	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Georgia on Cooperation in Combating Crime’ was accepted in a single debate on the principle, articles and overall majority, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u98	We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: 'Repeal of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Re-entry of Persons residing without permission'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u99	I would ask that we close the electronic voting system for the second draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u100	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u101	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Definition of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation’ was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u103	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-18-S1-commons.u104	With the agreement of the House at 11.30 p.m., the meeting on Thursday 20 February 2020 at 9.30 p.m. on the subject of Parliament's work is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work: "Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro on Scientific and Technological Cooperation".
