ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First of all, before starting with the topical questions scheduled for today, let me inform the House first of all on Friday 22 May 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 713/18-5-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Christos Giannoulis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Removing the complaint to the European Commission for the arrogant state aid of the Greek Civil Transport Organisation (OSH)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 705/18-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "On paper No.4670/2020 three months after his vote." 3. The Question No 709/18-5-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The necessary measures for schools in the General High School and in the Kissamos Professional High School". 4. The Question No 691/11-5-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Southern Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafa to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Measures to relieve and support legal and other scientific disciplines". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission. — (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Kegeroglou, on his excellent report. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 711/18-5-2020 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let no worker be fired from the transformer plant in Oinofita, by Schneider Electric." 3. The Question No 685-15-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Foreign Minister on the subject: 'Announcement of Ambassadors to Israel on the annexation of Palestinian territories'. 4. The Question No 716/18-5-2020 by MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The major consequences of special education and education from the epidemic. Under the responsibility of the Ministry, measures are to be taken.' 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To withdraw the decision to extract the antiquities of the Venizelos Station and continue the construction of the Thessaloniki Metro". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Elisabeth (Bette) Scots to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Creating a new system of institutional framework for the protection of work in the period of reduction of economic activity, due to measures to prevent transmission and combat coronary (COVID-19)’. Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that all the topical and urgent questions of today's day will be discussed. So we begin with the first with the number 698/15-2020 time question of the first cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems in managing the laboratory control of the pandemic - still patients pay for diagnostic tests in the private sector from their pocket." Mr. Xanthos's timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I think the issue of pandemic diagnostics is a very sensitive issue. We have seen from the outset that there has been no proper, timely and comprehensive management of it. There were serious problems, in the first phase, the availability of diagnostic tests and the public sector - when there was a real difficulty for doctors in public hospitals who wanted to trace suspected cases, the diagnostic tests were not always available in the first period - there was an inconsistent landscape in the private sector and an absolute immunity, a possibility for anyone who has money, to be able to carry out diagnostic tests. We have identified from the outset that there has been no central control, by the Ministry, of the available tests and of the private and public sectors and that there has been no timely intervention to put a single one - because that, I think, is the critical - clinical criteria and uniform scientific evidence, on the basis of which tests will be carried out in both the public and private sectors. That was a weak link - let me have the term - in the management of the epidemic. Fortunately, it did not affect the overall path of the spread of the virus in the community and in the country, but it clearly affected citizens' pockets. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now, it's before the gates a widespread availability of diagnostic tests involving antibody control. We have, however, identified that citizens, within the framework of pre-operative control and because of the well-known difficulties of the public health system to cover all need and all demand, are addressed to private clinics and paid from their pockets. Although the examination has been costed by the ERCF, it has not yet been included in the EOPY compensation, and I think that is absolutely problematic. You have, in a way, let the invisible hand of the market regulate this case in the private sector. It is not possible on an issue where there is no provocative demand, which must be demanded, and there must be very specific criteria, which are insignificant, especially when surgical intervention is to be made - the state itself has introduced this obligation - to bear 100% of the citizen who is forced to go to the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u3	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, the capacity of public laboratories has increased, and we recognise that. There has been a great effort and proposals that we have tabled. The CSR and its laboratories were exploited, but not to the extent that they should. I would stress that in the question. Not to the extent that you should! There is a greater possibility in the coming period to increase their productivity and meet all needs through public laboratories and at least the needs for investigation of cases and the epidemiological surveillance necessary at this stage. So the question is why the EEAS does not incorporate this specific diagnostic examination with zero participation for the citizen into the compensation, so that we can reduce the burden on the patient. And, of course, the EEA will also have to compensate the public laboratories of the university hospitals, the large hospitals of the RIS, which are currently responsible for buying reagents in hospitals, where there is a real difficulty there too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u5	Good, Mr. Xanthi. The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u6	So we really want to understand why, although the examination has been costed, it is not compensated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, in introductory terms, I will tell you the following. As we have repeatedly said, we continue to fight for the pandemic, because this pandemic is still over. We have dealt with the principle of pandemic with sufficient, speed and efficiency. We know it's not over. We are reassuring, but we are not reassured and in no way underestimate the good phase in which our country is located. And that is the main reason why we continue our preparation, with the aim of first of all of controlling possible refreshments of the pandemic, without serious consequences for the citizens. We didn't leave, we didn't leave, and we won't leave anything to chance. The responsibility with which we faced the pandemic continues to be our comparative advantage. I would first like to refer to the introductory part of your question, because it raises various questions, until I reach the answer to your question. The only safe way to diagnose the coronary to date is molecular control. This strategy has been followed from the outset so far successfully and this strategy will continue to be followed and then. You mentioned the availability of the test. There was no problem. To any of our fellow citizens who had to take the test, they did not say "you can't do it because there is no test". Our country did, in fact, ensure early adequacy of reagents. You referred to the National Center of Blood. I should like to inform you that on 13 March 2020, the reagents used by the CSR, were approved by the American Medicines Agency and on 27 March were in Greece and we were able to increase the production capacity of the whole system and, of course, by the CSR, which we are continuing to increase. From the outset he was with us both public workshops and universities. The Pasteur Institute, the Kapodistrian, university clinic, the universities of the country and the laboratories of public hospitals. There has been cooperation with research institutes, therefore, from the outset. You refer to your question and to mobile units. To date - as a matter of priority - vulnerable groups have been controlled, high-risk population, two hundred and ninety-three structures, and seven and a half thousand overhauls have been taken by last week. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like a little tolerance, please, Mr President. I'll use time from my dentistry. As far as the country's production capacity is concerned: to date, this possibility is about eight thousand tests per day and we are increasing this production capacity every day. We have an important donation from the "ELLENIKA PETRELAYA", we have donations to the University of Athens, to various hospitals, to the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, which all increase day after day our capacity and we can exceed 11 thousand tests. Of course, there is also a question of how much we need tests. There is uncertainty globally because the number of tests depends mainly on an increase in cases. In addition, nineteen public hospitals have molecular diagnostic laboratories, health centres have analysts and we also consider strengthening with more points in primary care structures and ahead of the tourist season. Because a reference to antibodies has been made, we have said - and at the beginning - that the only reliable way to diagnosis is to molecular control and that the antibodies test will be used for epidemiological purposes. In our home country it is estimated that a small number has been infected with the virus, perhaps less than 0.5%, and we have three major antibody studies in order to identify these numbers. We provided timely reliable antibody tests through donation. Therefore, these tests will be carried out at no cost for the citizen and, as I have said, the population studies, the prospect of a population antibody study in Greece, firstly, with specific epidemiological criteria, secondly, a serum epidemiological study, which is conducted in collaboration with the National Center for Haemorrhage by members of the Committee of Experts and the Ministry of Health where a significant number of samples are checked, at least ten thousand samples, thirdly, repeated serum sero-detection study. This has started since March and is coordinated by the School of Medicine in Thessaly in collaboration with the National Agency for Public Health and other universities and studies are under way. In the future - very soon - we are also thinking of special categories of population that we would like to see the spread of the disease with antibody studies, where some services may have a higher rate of insult. That is why we will give priority to the examination of health professionals, who are and remain in the front line, to see if there are high rates of disease. We have strengthened public laboratories throughout the territory with more than two hundred assistants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Undersecretary, you have your dentistry. Of course, you've exhausted the time of dentistry already with your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u10	It's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u11	Finish it, please. I'm sorry to interrupt, but I should also remind you of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude and thank you very much for your tolerance. As far as rapid tests are concerned, globally no such antigen test is considered credible for the diagnosis of the disease and the World Health Organisation assesses these tests and, therefore, once again, our proper strategy is confirmed to have molecular control of the disease. Now I will conclude with your question why is the examination carried out in private laboratories not compensated by the EEAS? You have been blaming us for some time now that we are subsidising the EEAS with 30 million euros to do the coronary tests in private clinics, as your colleagues say, while these can be done in public laboratories. So why is it not compensated so far? Indeed, the examination has been costed by the EEAS and there is its cost. It is not compensated to date by the EEA, because so far - I stress this and it is important - that the public meets its needs fully. There was not a single test missing from the public, there was not a single citizen who would meet the criteria to do the test free of charge and the public did not have the opportunity to respond at this time. After all, this is also the role of the private sector, to complement the public sector when it cannot. At the moment, the public health system is responding sufficiently. And, of course, because you referred to our fellow citizens who appealed to private laboratories to do the test, some or rather most, the majority went without any reference from a hospital or from the National Public Health Agency and everyone did it at their own expense. This also creates demand-induced conditions, and we need to check this out and take care of it, because, for example, the EOPY of glycosylated hemoglobin compensates it for once in the semester. If a patient wants to do this examination every month, it makes sense to pay her out of his pocket. If, therefore, it is necessary to compensate EOPY for the costs. I repeat that the government is currently fully fulfilling its needs. I would like to say one final word - and I thank you, Mr President - because you have referred to pre-operative control, to private clinical trials, there are criteria set by the Committee of Experts for when the test is required. In particular, it concerns the case that we have a total anaesthesia in a surgery that is to be done and there are clear instructions that there will be no burden on the citizen who comes to a private hospital to perform an operation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u14	Undersecretary, we obviously agree that what is being called for in the first phase of the pandemic, but now, in order to control possible refreshments and outbursts at this stage or in the next phase, in the new epidemic wave, is to have increased availability of molecular tests and, indeed, to strengthen the ability of public structures, public hospitals - and not just of the reference hospitals - to have access to the quick molecular test. This is of particular importance in managing suspicious cases more quickly so that imports do not need to be made. There are hospitals nowadays university hospitals that have organised very good practices where this test can be performed in the LAGs, without special infrastructure and can really contribute to the timely and efficient management of suspicious cases, the tracking and isolation of contacts, etc. This is very important. Antibody tests are a story that will come to us in the next period and let me say that if there is no framework and no criteria being set and there is no regulation on the part of the Ministry, there will be 'parties'. I'm telling you straight away. It's gonna be a party and it's gonna be transferred into the patient's pocket. And from your answer so far, I understand that you have a difficulty in protecting the citizen who is being exploited at this time. What can we do now? Of course, the tests requested by doctors of the public health system on the basis of the criteria set by the committee are carried out by public laboratories and their productivity increased. We proposed that the CSR enter and some have taken care of this excellent laboratory, the central laboratory, to perform central serological control, to carry out central molecular control of forty-five employees who had in 2015 now a hundred seventy. But the point is that people are talking to the private sector to do surgery, to do radiation therapy for other reasons. We will also see these because there are issues there too. So it is not possible that this world is not protected and charged with 100% of this expenditure on criteria set by the state. It's not possible. And since you're talking about provocative demand, what's the antidote to provocative demand? It's the prescribing. There will therefore be a referral from the EEA system. No test will be carried out in the country, unless it has a reference by a doctor, with common criteria in the public and private sectors, and the EEAY will compensate the tests, which are carried out in the private sector, and will also provide expenditure for public laboratories to compensate public laboratories, as it does for the hospitality of the insured. We can't leave this landscape unregulated and unaccompanied. There's a reaction from the diagnostic centers, obviously, so we don't hide now. Listen: Diagnostic centers and private clinics don't want to be charged with clawback. That's clear. So right now we have a win-win situation. Clinical and diagnostic laboratories are not at risk with increased clawback, the EEA budget is not charged, and the patient is the only one who loses. This thing can't go on. I think it is the state's duty to protect the citizen who, for various reasons, is forced beyond the public system to address the private sector as well. I wish the public system could meet all needs and be - let us say - unnecessarily recourse to the private sector. That is not the case at the moment. I think you should set it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u15	Good, Mr. Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u16	And one last: Diagnostic tests - says so by the World Health Organization, they call it prestigious people all over the world - are public good, as is the vaccines and medicines that will result from us in the next period. It also needs intervention at national level to regulate the landscape, but also at international level, which will ensure that the best results from medical innovation are accessible in terms of public interest, without discrimination, in all countries and in all societies. And one last thing: I think this story of co-operation with...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u17	So it was the last. Come on, Mr Xanthi, now you are putting me in a difficult position vis-à-vis the other follow-up colleagues, who will rightly ask for extra time too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u18	I shall end, Mr President, one last word. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u19	But you and the State Secretary have been abused before and the tolerance of the Bureau...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u20	One last word. Just a minute and I'm sorry, and thank you. One last word on the issue of KMUs. It is clear that the data collected, the existing data will be in the knowledge of the Scientific Committee, the Committee of Experts, and the next steps will be taken on this basis. So far it has not been clear who defines the strategy, who gives orders. ETA, civil protection? The Committee of Experts certainly not. Who determines what priorities are, what structures will they go, how will they move in the next period? I think that this is crucial and the examinations collected by the special-purpose homes should be carried out in public laboratories and especially in the CSR, to make the most of them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u21	Minister, you have the floor and you have the strong request to keep the time of your dentistry, although as I have told you before you have already exhausted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you. I shall begin with the end of what Mr Blonde referred to as concerning the JETs. The aim of the NGO, one of the goals for which they were created, was to go to high-risk groups. There is clearly a prioritisation for where they go, who see and who is prioritised by the Committee of Experts. The tests, the samples collected by the KMY, are indeed being processed at the National Center of Hurricane, Mr. Xanthi. Now I would like to repeat once again that, in the management of the coronary pandemic, yes, I agree with you that the vaccine, medicines and tests are a public good, and that public good we safeguard it, and that is why, in the case of the coronary, none of our fellow citizens have been charged with costs. It was a zero cost, not just a simple charge, since it needed health services in terms of the coronary. And because you have referred to the private sector, the decision that has come out costing this operation on behalf of the EEAS, and there needs to be a referral - the Ministerial Decision clearly says so - by the EGE or the EMCDDA in order for the examination to be carried out in a certified private laboratory, says at the end that the cost, this expenditure is not counted against the clawback. So there is no question of clawbacking for the private laboratories you're talking about. And I repeat once again that the public health system has a huge capacity for production at the moment, this is what we are exploiting and, if necessary, we will also go to the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u23	Well, thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the third with number 710/18-5-2020, a top-level question from the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let the co-operation of Governments - EU, stop now. — industrialists at the expense of small vineyard growers and lamb farmers; The Deputy Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Nikolaos Papathanases. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. The case is, you know it very well, Mr. Deputy, just to get into the debate: a decision by the General Secretariat of Trade at the beginning of January 2010 was taken by the beginning of the General Secretariat of Commerce, which imposed a fine of EUR 1 000 in the mass catering shops selling bulk tsipouro or tsikoudia, when it is recorded as tsipouro or tsikoudia, while it should have another name, 'distillation product', something similar, in which case the consumer would ask for 'I want a distillation product to drink'. You understand very well who is affected by this measure. It hurts small producers, these bulbs who are trying with an income to meet their needs. And this is all done for the benefit of the industrialists. And this is done on the pretext of European legislation on geographical indications, which is arbitrarily - not your own government, you have taken the scourge - the previous SYRIZA government, when it established the technical file on geographical indications has determined that it must be linked to bottling rather than production, which is an absurdity beyond what is provided for in European and Greek legislation. So, is it forbidden to bottle something that is an import product? You understand how I put it. Why is that so? Just to get out, to expose the small producers. And in the present conditions of the pandemic, where there are large stocks of wine and tsipouro, you understand very well that it will be a serious blow to producers, wine growers, but also to those who can withdraw, take part in this production, the small producers, to support the incomes of the wine growers and their own. Because there is a real danger in the next period that the vines and production will be destroyed through this process or by the wine growers, the big bottlers, will be subject to degrading prices for withdrawal of the products. In this respect, therefore, it is clear what needs to be done. The specific decision of the General Secretariat should be removed and the technical file changed. Otherwise we will have a massive and violent exit from the market for these small producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u25	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, I would like to keep something in mind for my second-guess, which is about protecting the protected geographical indication, but I will start with that because I see that you want us to enter the real debate and not repeat what we have said here twice in this House on similar questions. One of the main successes we have had as a country is that we encapsulated this product, the name of this product, within our territory, namely by a quick move and by tabling a technical dossier we have managed and protected the product and we have not had any leak of the name of this product in other countries. I want to tell you that something similar didn't happen - let's say - with vodka and it matters. I can also refer to other products. Let us say here that eight countries, using complex names, have established their products as a protected geographical indication with other names for the same product, vodka. So, as far as the three arms of your question are concerned, in the first part you are talking about the circular, the second about the file and the third about the "casades". So I'll start by telling you that a circular, as you know, is stepping on laws. The General Secretariat for Consumers is doing nothing but protecting the consumer with one circular. This is precisely the meaning of the General Secretariat for Consumer Protection. Therefore, if this circular had no basis and had no legal basis, the imposition of EUR 1000 would have no effect on it. So, by pressing on it, pressing on a law, this circular came out. However, since last time we have a new element - and I will go on with it in my dentistry - which actually proves that we here are implementing a law, following a technical file. There is therefore a technical file to which you have referred. So in this reply from the General Cheese of the State - and I think you may have read it, because you may have received it, but I will also submit it to Parliament - it says that the distillation product of the small distilleries, the two-day distilleries, is mainly intended for private consumption. However, according to Article 7(e8)(c) of Law 2969/2001, consumption is permitted, but only in bulk. The raw material for the production of the small distillate product is not only grapes, but also other raw materials, such as berries, helmets, cumara, zips and honey residues, and other fruits or nuts may also be allowed to be distilled by decision of the Minister of Finance, Article 7(e2) of Law 2969/2001. The other requirements laid down for that category of spirit drink, i.e. the minimum required alcoholic strength, are not met. And because I don't have much time, but I will continue in my dentistry, I would like to tell you that tsipouro is produced using cotton of more than 30 litres, in practice distilling machines over two hundred litres, while the distilling product of small distillers is produced from cotton of up to 30 litres. The result is the differentiation of the quality characteristics of the two products. We have two products. The concept of standardisation and the concept of product protection means that the consumer takes and consumes a particular product. As you know, many of the small distillers don't have their own cotton. They use mammals who are in the community and so on. Therefore, this particular product cannot be described exactly as ‘tsipouro’. Now, I understand what you are saying, that someone goes and says 'Give me something, a little distillate', and that this can obviously cause a confusion. However, if we stand on the description of the technical file and as Greece has guaranteed the name 'tsipouro-tsikoudia', we cannot say that we accept the same product, that bulk product is called just 'tsipouro' or 'tsikoudia'. I'm going to go on in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u27	Good, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Undersecretary, I am really speechless with your answer. Traditionally the tsipouro was bulk and the production came out of the small bulbs. Traditional! And the tick. Then the bottling came. Now to come and say that this is not rattle and that it's something else, here science and history raise your hands up! Of course, there may be distillates from various fruits and from various fruits, but this is not raspberry but something else. The tsipuro and the tsipoudia come from the vineyard. In fact, as far as traditional tsipouro and traditional tsikoudia are concerned, it is different to the technique by which they are produced in relation to what the large growers who implant, who have the mud, have the residue that surpasses the wine production. So what need for consumer protection are you telling us now? This is a specific choice. What interests do you serve with this provision? The interests of the large producers, of the water industries. These interests are served, which is clean. You said about the great effort made by the governments to guarantee the geographical indication. For what purpose did you do it? Did you do it to help the wine growers have a good price for selling the grapes? Did you do it for the little ammunition? Oh, no. On the basis of the answer you gave, the geographical indication was made for the industrialists. You said it clearly. It comes out of what you say. Then what do we do with the geographical indication? To ensure more interests and rights for producers and industrialists? Is that what this is about? Or to protect farmers' incomes? The opposite happens. And we're telling you that today there are huge quantities of wine. So what will the producer sell his grape? He's gonna sell it, beer, than if they're gonna get it. Here too there are various thoughts made by the Ministry for mass destruction of production and for compensation for this production to 60%, i.e. to bury it. You will, in other words, give burying, rather than people being able to have much easier access to cheaper agricultural goods. And from this point of view, we are clearly saying that what puts in the technical file made on your government is arbitrary. It is a broad interpretation of the laws, both of the European Union and of the Greeks, when it says that geographical indication is given only to bottling and not production. It's irrational. While the substance is production in the geographical indication and not implantation. So you must also amend the technical file and withdraw it on the basis of this specific decision concerning the imposition of a EUR 1000 fine. Otherwise, you lead with mathematical accuracy to the extremism of the munitions, the two-day producers and, of course, the collapse of the incomes of the vine growers. All the rest is just pretexts in sin, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Therefore, Mr Karathanasopoulos, you do not believe that the Member States are protecting their products, in order to protect the traditional value of a traditional product in certain procedures. You believe that every protection of a product has another purpose and purpose. So I told you in my protology that vodka has been guaranteed by complex names in eight countries. And that we here have forged very quickly - through two three governments, it has not been done in the current government, but by the previous governments - the name of the traditional product in Greece, so that it cannot be taken on another product, this traditional intangible value, and just so that they can continue to produce this product within our country and the small distillers in that sense that you have put forward. So we have tabled a technical file at high speed. A product must be, located and manufactured in a particular geographical area. This is exactly how it acquires its value and is called the ‘traditional product’. I have therefore mentioned eight states which have a different name for vodka. And I want to tell you that exactly those rules applied by the Ministry of Development through the General Secretariat - to which I have referred - are being dealt with in laws. The General Secretariat didn't just come out to pull out a circular. Because, as you say in your question, the dossier must be amended. So that is what the amendment of the file is, first of all, the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but I continue to say that this EUR 1 000 circular would not mean if it did not fall on some legislation. Therefore, perhaps you should address your question elsewhere about the dossier. However, I have mentioned these elements which support this view. Also, because I have to answer all your questions - I have answered you in the second and the first part - about the third part of your question I will tell you that the state does come and support these small distillers. And it supports them, because they are natural persons, and it has made their products available directly to consumers, without the presence of intermediaries - you know that very well - and in the end only pay 1/12 of the tax paid by businesses. So what support are you talking about, when small distillers have the support from the state, so that they can pay low tax, so that they can have that product and have the necessary income to produce this distillate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u31	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the first with number 706-18-5-2020, a topical question from the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Financing for the Internal Tourism Programme for all 2020". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Skylakakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, from what you understood, your previous question was about you. The compost with the technical file, which they called traditional product "tsipouro" and "tsikoudia" only the one produced from 130 and more litres of cotton, was made by the General Chemistry of the State. This scam has been made by your Services, indeed, and Mr. Papathanases is coming to cover the benefits of this unjust act of yours as a ministry. If you then covered it with a legal arrangement, it doesn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Kegeroglu, let's move on to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u34	So we really must also address you to this scam that has been done. A gang worked, Mr. President. We cannot avoid a gang that operated at the General Chemistry of the State.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kegeroglu, let us confine ourselves to your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u36	Let's go to the question now. We have therefore tabled a question from 7 April to you and two other ministers about what you are doing about supporting businesses in the tourist regions, but that their CFPs, their codes, that is, as stated in the Ministry of Finance, are not included in the affected. And we ask: for example, a minimarket in a tourist area, which is obviously unable to function all this time, since spring and after year, how do you intend to support it, how do you intend to give it the opportunity to reopen when the market is going to function? That's a loose end because you haven't answered. We are therefore coming as a Change Movement, and we are saying that we need labour support measures, with 40% of the wage bill for a million - we have calculated - workers for six months in order to relaunch the economy. Because we believe that if the interruption is carried out by order, but the reset is not carried out on an order and there is a need for measures. We have gladly heard that measures will be announced by the Prime Minister today. But is it in the direction that it should be? Do we have any tax incentives or just formal, say we did something? In other words, when you say that the focus VAT will go to 13% - which has already gone and has to go to 6% - it is not a substance measure of that. When we say a 0% advance on business, since they are not active this year, on the basis of the people affected, and 50% on the rest, it is something you need to see. We therefore propose an internal tourism programme with three million beneficiaries, which needs fifteen million stays and needs a job of seven million days. In this programme we proposed to work, we were told 'yes, very good, I accept it, but ask Mr. Dogsakis and Mr. Stakoura'! We were told by name who are competent ministers and State Secretarys. Have you had a discussion with the government? Are you thinking of making such a broad programme for tourism, so that the critical mass of people can function? That's our question. Keep in mind that we have first addressed it to the Labour Office responsible for the small social tourism programmes that operate each year.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Dogman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question and the opportunity to say a few words about it. Obviously, precisely because there will be communications today from the Prime Minister and after the relevant ministers, I cannot go into great detail. I think I've informed Mr. Kegeroglu about this. However, I will say two - three things. One is in relation to businesses in tourist areas that did not belong to what we call'suffering CARs'. Indeed, this is an objective problem that starts and is resolved, as we leave the logic of the CAR, which was forced, because we did not have the image of what is happening to every individual company and we are actually going to do what is happening to every individual company. The first step for that was the returning advance in March. There will be a second phase - we have said - of the returner, where the series of April and May will enter the game. And there the minimarkets, the seasonals will be able to record very real, because April and May are two months of seasonal activity in too many areas. We have also said that other measures being examined, such as advance payment of income tax, will be of such a character, because we need to realise that the money we have is not unlimited. They must therefore go as far as possible to those who are most affected, hence personalization. We cannot use tax incentives at the moment, because we still have no picture of how the year will turn out in relation to the budget for 2021. We're gonna need some time for the 2021 budget to see the evolution of this year. The issue of domestic tourism aid is also a good idea. We will see to what extent it can be exploited. More generally, we consider that there is no magic bullet, a programme that can take care of our tourism. We need to invest in many different fronts. We may have to invest more money in coming tourists, because there is a feeling that it can really open up a real tourist season. We'll see the mixture and the ratio. These will be presented by the government today. Unfortunately, it is awkward not to be able to present them to you here in the House. Forgive me for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u39	Good. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u40	For communication reasons, that is to say, in order to present the package at night. We, of course, do not synchronise with the government's communication planning, because we have issues of substance that we think should be dealt with, and that is why in time, forty days ago, 50 days ago, from the beginning, even on measures for the health crisis on 22 January, we made our intervention when they were nine dead worldwide - I repeat, very timely. And what do we say? We say that every hour that passes, every day that passes to the issue of the economy, as you know very well, is crucial. You cannot let the time pass and be inappropriate, "see what will happen". That is what I think is the most bad recipe. The Change Movement as well - I have to say why it has done a very important job - the Progressive Democratic Cooperation of Economics, which we support, have worked out measures that have to do with the economy and the period that companies can really do, and with fiscal incentives, but also measures to alleviate business and support work. The programme we are talking about supporting work for a million workers is the heart of our political proposal for the interim programme, and I think it should be adopted without further. You declare weakness, but we'll see it at night. The second concerns the internal tourism programme. We are not talking now about a reduction in tourism from outside, which will be 10%, 20%, and then we will see how we manage it. Now we have to start differently. We need to create the conditions so that there is the critical mass to operate a number of tourist businesses and up there will be supported and, of course, any percentage of tourists coming from abroad. We'll have to go backwards, that is. We cannot see what is going to happen and then, in addition, we must move forward. This is, therefore, a different concept in relation to the response of the recession. And if the recession is five or ten points high, it makes a huge difference. We are talking about recession on one occasion, about recession and on the other, but another is 5% and another 10%. Inertia brings down recession. The initiatives bring defence and of course reduced negative effects on the economy. In this sense, you should study more closely the programme of domestic tourism, which will not go back to covering some reduction from abroad, but may be the driving force for business to function, because it can be forward-looking. In other words, it can be decided in advance that we are, of course, starting progressively, of course, with a time-share between 1 June and 15, which you say will start from abroad until 15 October or the end of October, and with the possibility of further strengthening and, of course, allowing for movement. Because, you know, the biggest problem we'll have with internal tourism this year is moving. The travel costs are very important and should be included in the package in addition to the subsidy for four, five, six days or overnight stays, there should be semi-food and travel costs too. It is very important and we think you should look at it with greater attention and interest. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u42	Of course we see it carefully and interestingly. You'll find out. Obviously the pace and government decisions are taken in their own time. I can assure you that there was no feasibility with regard to today's question. From there on on on chronism, the Timing that the Anglo-Saxons would say, the measures must take into account two things: firstly, the very high degree of uncertainty that exists and continues to exist in relation to the extent of the recession, the way in which it develops and the reactions of the governments. Our feeling is that there may also be opportunities in front of us as we come out of the health crisis and how we use money is not self-evident. Maybe a piece should go to social tourism, maybe another piece of importance should go to communication to bring foreign tourists. We all realise that if tourists come from abroad, their economic impact is quite different. We are talking about another multiplier of the economy and other money leaves the table of local societies. This ratio is not easy. No one claims infallibility, but so far we have the money based on the best information, the best estimate we have. The situation is extremely dynamic and we may find that the deferred tourism that we all believe will affect in 2021 primarily, that is, people's desire to come to a country like Greece and take a vacation, can be a part of it this year. So we need to shape the package, and you will see it, so that all these needs, including the mobility needs, can be met, I note here. Thank you very much, and I hope in the next question that I can answer you a great deal more. Today was a little awkward, as I told you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u43	And we thank the Minister. We continue with the second with number 700/17-5-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The ineffectiveness of the options for non-performing loans (SMEs) and the exclusion from the arrangements for the loans of the fire-fighting areas’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that, because of the coronary crisis, there is an increase in unserved requirements. The more moderate estimates are talking about an increase of EUR 7 to 10 billion, which will already be added to the EUR 67 billion in non-performing banks, at the same time that we have an increase in unemployment and a reduction in incomes. This, as you understand, makes it difficult for the implementation of the programme 'HRAKLIS', which, from what they all show, is frozen by the beginning of 2021. The banks hold a standby until September to see what they will do, with a more likely scenario that the conditions for Greek banks are not favourable to get out for securitisations. At the same time, the banks carry out serviceable loans and loans with little delay to management companies, despite your own personal assurances on the contrary six months ago in this Chamber. Already a bank has done that. It transferred EUR 7.5 billion into its portfolio of short-lived loans and it is no coincidence that it was the only bank that, in the assessment of the MODY'S home, had no adverse impact, but also, of course, to avoid the risk of injurious use, which, as you well know, will lead to Stateisation. At the same time, the Bank of Greece reintroduces the proposal for a "bad bank" that we have as a Change Movement proposed since 2017 and the banks remain alert. Banks that raised EUR 9.2 billion in April with a pledge of state bonds through the LTRO mechanism at a very low interest rate instead of ELA, but at the same time instead of channelling them into the real economy through TIPIX II and through the Guarantee Fund with a high guarantee from the Greek State, have strict conditions that exclude companies from doing so with the main banking information, while 60% of micro-enterprises are uninformed at the end of 2019. This is a condition that excludes the borrowers of the firefighting areas who had received loans in 2007 with the guarantee of the Greek State, Elias, Arcadia, Messinia, Laconia and Evia, and could not regulate them in the ten-year crisis. So two questions. The first question: What is the course of the ‘ERACHLES’ securitisation programme? You said yourself that you regularly want to inform us, so I ask you and if you are considering the creation of a bad bank, as proposed by the Bank of Greece and not just in parallel with the shape of the program "HRAKLI". And the second question is whether you will incorporate the firefighting loans of the professionals and merchants of Elijah and the other regions into a tax arrangement and whether you will finally force the banks to do something similar so that the professionals and businessmen of Elijah and the firefighting regions can have access to liquidity. That is something you know that cannot be done in the ultimate future, it is the next time the Guarantee Fund is in place. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. The honourable Member's question has two parts. One concerns the adequacy of the project 'ERAKLIS' to reduce red loans and the second concerns firefighting. The honourable Member said that the plan 'HERAKLIS', as it turns out, is freezing until the beginning of 2021. That is what I would like to say. Firstly, because, as you have seen, Mr Papoutsis, this difficult time of our country, Europe and the world, one of the four systemic banks only a few days before applying to enter HRAKLE for securitisations worth EUR 7.5 billion. On the next day of filing the application, the shareholders of the requesting bank had a significant increase. All this marks the confidence of the international investment community in the project of HARAKLI, which is the leading initiative of the Greek Government to reduce red loans. As you know, we chose the "HRAKLE" so that the Greek taxpayer would not be charged with the cost of reducing red loans, but investors. Furthermore, three other systemic banks have repeatedly declared publicly that they are working in a position to integrate their securitisation plans into the ‘HRAKLE’ once they return to normality, i.e. once the crisis has been resolved and the liquidity, which investors with accumulated liquidity, will look primarily for assets with the State's guarantee to invest. The second element is that the 'ERAKLIS' is supported by the whole of the European Union. The solution has been praised at national, European and global level. In addition, last week the Executive Vice-President of the European Union, Mr Dombrovskis, responsible for the European banking system, said that HARAKLIS is the only suitable solution to resolve the problem of red loans in Greece, which the European Commission obviously supports. But also the leadership of all the other European institutions has publicly supported the 'HRAKLIS' programme. On 10 October last, Mrs Westager - then Vice-President and today the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission - proposed this as the most appropriate scheme for reducing red loans. President Draggi on his visit to Athens, Mr. Enrias, President of the European Supervisory Mechanism, Mr. Reggling, Mrs. Elke Kenning and several others supported the same position. Why all of them? Because it has been approved, it has been supported by the European institutions because it fulfils the supervisory requirements. It is a project in line with State aid rules. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that this solution is the least supervisory cost-effective, because we have secured the zero weighting for the high-depreciation package, which means that it can be significantly strengthened - by those who use the scheme - their capital adequacy, which is very important at this time because, as you know, this government's tough negotiations have ensured, this zero weighting has been achieved and things have been gained which some have not been understood, things that concern the Greek taxpayer, as well as the stability of the banking system. I would like to add to this the huge personal success of Prime Minister Mitsotakis, who has guaranteed Greek bonds access to the system of quantitative relaxation of the European Central Bank. This has been won by the huge political authority that is now enjoying and personal relations with the leading leaders in the European Central Bank. I would therefore find it very difficult to see what the honourable Member said that there is a lack of the red loan plan. On the contrary, I think it is a project that is the most appropriate response at this time. As regards the second part of the honourable Member's question, I would like to say that Article 103 of Law 4549/2018 allows credit institutions and borrowers to regulate loans guaranteed by the Greek State, under the terms and conditions of the Ministerial Decision 94253/21-12-2018 which provides for the conditions, conditions for maintaining the guarantee of the Greek State in cases of loan arrangements, as well as relevant instructions for the proper execution by the Ministry of the Union of Greek Banks, in order to inform all credit institutions. They've already been provided. I would like to point out that the regulation on the long-term repayment of the certified debts from these loans which have been deferred due to the koruna crisis is scheduled to be promoted in the near future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you will allow me first of all to note that Greece's participation in the Bond Exchange Programme in any case is not a personal success of the Prime Minister, but it is a clear political decision of the European Central Bank in trying to obtain liquidity in all the European countries affected by the coronary, through commercial banks, through the European Central Bank. It is something that will do well not to be repeated at the National Representation because the creditors of the banking and finances are well aware of the terms and conditions with which Greece has entered - fortunately - into this programme. With regard to firefighting, you will allow me to say that your answer is exactly the same, Mr Minister, who gave me in writing Mr. Skokakis, who left a few minutes ago, on 26 November 2019. Since he said what you said and you end up - six months ago - in that 'in the near future, as the flow of downturns is expected to increase, he is planning to legislate for a specific long-term settlement of the relevant public debts specifically for the firefighting borrowers'. Six months ago the government says that in the near future it will design for the firefighters, so it's not the coronary's fault. And you come today - representing the government, obviously, and not personally - to say exactly the same about loans for which the Greek State guarantee has expired on 31 December 2019, for loans for which, despite the circular in question, the banks have never made sustainable arrangements, but have become few. It is of value to see how many arrangements were made for firefighting loans and of course to see how many requests have been submitted by bank institutions for bail-out and how many have been accepted by the department of the Ministry of Finance. The question for us is that professionals with firefighting loans should be able to make first, directly in regulation with the banks, because we hear that you will be able to make a programme of loans and reds before the coronary, provided that they are arranged and thus arranged with the banks directly so that professionals can access liquidity through a guarantee fund. Secondly, for those loans that have been made directly, within this month, you must have made legislation with a long-term repayment of at least one hundred and twenty instalments. As regards the programme 'HRAKLIS', you know very well that the proposal for bad bank is not only Greek cut, but the European Central Bank also calls for it because it is a solution that improves capital adequacy indicators by limiting deferred tax rates in Greece, which in Greece is 56% of the bank's capital and has less per unit of non-performing loans than the securitisations. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Of course, banks are reluctant to do so because they will lead to recapitalisation and probably to statism. But this, to which you did not reply to me, Minister, and I would like you to reply to your dentistry, is with a more moral and political right the banks are transferring - and this is what the Greek people need to know - loaned to the demand management companies with the sole aim of making the securitisation more tempting and separating the part of them so that they do not have to make recapitalisations. Greek citizens must get an answer. In the debate on the "HRAKLIS" programme you were clear and said that no interest-free loans would be transferred unless the same person has a service and is not served. I have been a borrower, who may be tabling my very close-minded report - and I say this with so much emphasis - where his loan has been served normally for years, made arrangements for the benefit of the bank by paying a capital and a lesser instalment at the same repayment period and comes the bank on 30 March in the middle of a coronary and tells him that he is carrying the loan, which is served, to the claim management company, obviously so that he can sell it better to a foreign investor. So Greeks should know that their loans at the moment are either paying or not paying for them, because the only thing that matters to the banks is to save the recapitalisation that will lead them to state-run. And that's why you bring political responsibility unreservedly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u50	Mr Papoutsis, on the subject of huge success - and I say this again, because it is a huge Greek success, a personal success of the Prime Minister - the possibility of waiver exemption on the issues of Greek bonds was something that was not given and should probably have been done before. As you can see, it was not easy at all and it is really a huge success. The second issue is the subject of the 'ERAKLIS' programme. I would like to say that the ERAKLIS programme is a scheme that has been shown at the moment to be adequacy and success. We will need not simple proposals, not simple exercises on paper, but realistic solutions. Real solutions mean those that can be approved by the European institutions, that is to say they are compatible with European law. And here I would like to stress that in the debate we had in October and in the debate we had in December there are three main criteria with which we will monitor every proposal so that it is realistic. Firstly, to what extent does the financial costs affect. How much money do they need and who will get that money from? Secondly, how many supervisory funds need to be used - this is the second important point - and the third is whether these solutions are compatible with European State aid legislation and with bail in. Anyone who has answers comes and answers these three questions, and then we can discuss them. From there on, in relation to the question you referred to the firemen, I would like to tell you that the Government's position obviously remains the same. We are working on the programme, which will be published shortly. I wanted to say that there should be no confusion. As I noted in October, you said, there is the possibility of entering the securitisations and provided loans along with unserved loans. That's what's there and that's true. However, you should not confuse the following: loans are not transferred to the services, to the management companies alone. The programmes that are currently in force and are being implemented for the settlement are therefore also being implemented the programme we announced six months ago - and it is currently being delayed because of the crisis - will be published within the next period of time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Minister. And we continue with two questions addressed to the Ministry of Civil Protection. The second question by No. 704/18-5-2020 will be debated on the second question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'An unjustified suppression of a peaceful protest against environmentally-friendly law'. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the outcry of society towards the government is known for environmental law. There are enough mass reactions on the Internet with the collection of signatures, over forty thousand citizens, over a hundred movements, more than thirty institutions, all environmental organizations, and so on. The government passed this environmental law based exclusively on the government's majority. That was her right. It is not her right, however, to trespass rights, in fact to ban any reaction and to force anyone to react to the bills that she brings. This really is a blow to democracy. I'll be specific. On 4 May, the plenary debate day on the vote on the environmental law, police forces with orders from above, went to the eighteen protesters, who had remained after the demonstration on all-nights outside the House, and made them an identity check. These people were clear what they were doing there, they had placats, they sat peacefully and they protested about the multi-project discussed in the House. Afterwards, although they had identities, they were proclaimed with a cage in the middle of a coronary and when the process was over, because everyone had identities and was citizens without any other issue pending against them, they returned to the Constitution, where they were banned by the police to continue the demonstration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In the next few days, the protest called on the police officers to leave with the threat that they would otherwise be brought to the station. On the eighth day of the House's security police removed two placards from a protesting citizen, on the tenth day they were asked to leave - again without any excuse - while on one citizen, who was protesting during the day, three times were brought to the police station. These methods are known, Minister, but they are known from other times. That is why I really want to invite you to stop it, to commit that they will stop and commit to stop any persecution to any citizen who is simply protesting, peacefully, against the government policies that have been condemned and are decentralised socially.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u53	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday 4 May 2020 and while the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy was under way in Parliament, there was a peaceful gathering of some six hundred people, members of reasoning, with emphasis on climate change. Nearly all individuals left the spot at 21.15' with the exception of sixteen remaining in front of the Monument of the Unknown Soldier. On 1.45' of 5 May 2020, these people were brought to the Constitution Police Department to verify their identity. It is worth noting that the production of citizens at the police store to verify their identity is provided in the context of the police's preventive and repressive action under existing legislation, in accordance with Article 74 of d.d.141/1991. It is pointed out that the possession and demonstration of the identity card during the verification does not deprive the police officer of the right and the obligation to place the controlled and as you know about the persons concerned, after the relevant check has been completed, of the right to be released and no other issue has been raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u55	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, obviously we know that it's at the discretion of the police to inquire a man for I.D. control. We understand, however, that this is not done by any means and has been selective in this case. To remind you it was obvious what these people in the Constitution did. They all had identities on them, and that is why they were then released and it was clear that there were orders above. I want to be clear and please answer me. Those orders were from Mr. Hatzidakis? Has Mr Hatzidakis asked you to dismantle this peaceful all-night protest? If not, who did? Did you personally do it? Mr. Chrysochoidis did this? Who has currently targeted this government to dismantle and exterminate any response? For having eighteen young citizens who react peacefully to the Constitution and taking them to a cradle for identity check and when they are released to ban them from continuing their protest, is, in fact, a ban on protesting to anyone who is disturbing us. We call on you to tell us whether it was Mr Hatzidakis who gave this mandate and, if not, who from the political leadership gave it. We also call on you to commit that this will stop, because you are really putting democracy at risk. You have the right, of course, to pass the laws with the government majority. You have no right to smear the citizens. It's a guaranteed right. These people defend the Constitution, Article 24. This law is unconstitutional. The Citizen's Counselor told us. It'll be in our constitutional court, the Council of State. But people who come to defend the Constitution and democracy cannot be persecuted using the margin that the law gives you. That's called a misuse of power. And when this is used against the people who bother us, it's called the repression of democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, once again today the Ministry of Civil Protection is in an unpleasant position to remind you of the obvious. So let me be more specific. The political protest cannot be punished or punished. I want to be quite clear and clear about this in the face of any suggestion that some sort of restriction is being attempted in the practice of this fundamental right of constitutional protection. The actions and measures taken were aimed solely at the protection measures that all citizens have to comply with and which are described in a clear way in all legislative acts for the successful treatment of the COVID pandemic -19 and in particular those regulations relating to the issue of social meetings. I shall therefore try once again to highlight the urgent need to avoid any sensible leap that inevitably leads to misinterpretations of intentions and the actions of the officials of the Greek Police, who are admittedly attempting every day in an extremely demanding environment. I urge you to contribute to safeguarding the role and the mission of women and men of the Greek Police at a particular critical period for our country, which unity within and outside Parliament is prerequisite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to the last time question, allow me a statement. The Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Minister of State, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Minister of Culture and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled on 20 May 2020 a draft law: ‘Statement, first, of 13 April 2020, an act of legislative content ‘Measures to address the continuing consequences of the CIVID-19 pandemic and other emergency provisions’ and, second, of 1 May 2020, an act of legislative content ‘Read further measures to address the continuing consequences of the Korion Pandemic pandemic -19 and Economic Settlement’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are now moving on to the third - and lastly for today under parliamentary control - with number 712-18-5-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of Members of Parliament I of Athens, Mer25 Mr Angeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Inadmissible police operations against citizens in the squares and selective repression'. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, we know all the incidents of unacceptable police operations and selective repression that have taken place recently in Agia Paraskevi and Agios Georgios Square in Kipseli, with illegal civilian provocations, with intimidation and trabulation of citizens, with unreasonable use of violence and chemicals, with contributions to the GDR detention centres, where detention conditions are unacceptable and do not even comply with the protocol and health protection measures. Also, a few days later followed a equally unacceptable police operation in Kallithea Square in Upper Town of Thessaloniki, in a relatively densely populated area, where even the drop of steep-lash grenades took place against young citizens who were gathered in the square simply in the context of socialization and, how much more, after the lifting of the measures, after the lifting of the incarceration, where this need was even greater. Government officials, such as Mr Petsas, have made some misleading statements, effectively demonising the gatherings of these citizens and saying that "what we have built so long in the midst of a pandemic with the protection and containment measures now come some to destroy them completely" and essentially by rendering these people'revolutionary gymnastics' actions, as Mr Pets says. And Minister Chrysochoidis has given the incident to Hippel in a set trap, a provocational trap, and in short the police have fallen victim to a phone call misleading, when, of course, he has said that "the world is meant to be allowed to go to the squares and that the police have no reason to be present in the squares and that, if necessary, the police officers can do what they can do is make the necessary recommendations". After that, what we ask you to answer - and it is a very specific question - is whether all this business package that the police are doing is a result of the orders given by the Minister himself. If, in other words, Mr Chrysochoidis himself has ordered the police, when they see people in the squares, to carry out these violent and totally unacceptable repressive operations. So, what is the command package given by the Ministry? If the police simply have to make recommendations, why are police operations incompatible with the orders the Ministry is supposed to give, in accordance with the statement made by the Minister? In any event, if the Ministry has ordered a sworn administrative examination of the incident which has taken place both in Kypsel and Upper City and if it intends the findings of this ESA to present them to the competent prosecutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, nights of 16 May 2020 in Kallithea Square in Upper Town of Thessaloniki some 200 people with covered characteristics had gathered on the above point, creating a crowded situation, without respecting security distances and at the same time disturbing the common peace and tranquility of the inhabitants with their voices. It is noted that they had taken precedence at the present time in the same evening, inter alia, the telephone complaints in the direct Action Centre of Thessaloniki by residents in the region, who urgently demanded police intervention. Similar complaints and complaints, telephones and documents, were also noted in previous days by local residents. Despite the constant and mild urges of the police to keep the necessary distances and avoid complete action, the intentions of the gathered individuals became evident when they began to display temperamental behavior, to stir more and to fly suddenly and fiercely towards the police rocks and bottles. Inevitably, the forces proceeded to restart the attacks. As noted below, individuals had caused damage to a supermarket, the nearby sacred temple and a parked car. I am presenting for the minutes the statement by Mr. Dimitris Daglis, on behalf of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, on the positive reception of police intervention to restore order. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Regarding the incident in St. John's Square of Agia Paraskevi, this is similar to what I described to you in relation to Thessaloniki. In other words, a crowd of more than four hundred people, a mob, drunk and multiple calls from residents and local authorities for police intervention. In the view of police forces, about half of them left, while the rest remained in the square and attacked police officers, chanting slogans against the police. For their part, police forces made limited use of tear gas. As far as the case of the incidents in St. George's Square is concerned, there is one particular thing. At the time 0: 50' on May 9, 2020, the direct Attica Action Centre received a call from a person who denounced that this square was attacked by unknown people who stabbed him in the thigh, removed the sum of EUR 100 and that these people are on the square. Reaching the point police found more than two hundred with stones, bats, defense masks, helmets and cover the features of their face. The chief of police forces re-enacted a call with the complainant who reconfirmed the incident, while at the same time stating that he expects them to be on the spot. The forces approached the spot and were completely inappropriate, organized and uninvited with bottles, marbles, stones and other objects. The police have carried out what is necessary for the use of tear gas in order to restore order. It is worth noting that, despite all the searches, the complainant was not found. That is why it was estimated that the call to the center of the immediate action was false and pretext, so that the police forces would rush to the point and be attacked. A special group was established by the State Security Sub-Directorate to identify the individual concerned. The investigation revealed his identities and early hours of 10 May found himself in a region of Kypsel where he was arrested and subsequently referred to the judicial authorities. As the Greek Police during the escalation of measures to address the health crisis of the coronary twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week contributed the citizens, and now at all stages of declining will continue to perform its mission in the best possible way. For the information of the honourable Members, I am presenting for the Minutes the relevant order of the Chief of Greek Police, Lt-Gen Karamalakis, to all the services of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as far as the case of the Upper City in Thessaloniki, you told us there was a strong protest against the concentration of citizens, here I have a report, which I will testify for the Minutes, which says that the residents, the residents were deeply disturbed by the presence of the police on the streets. Which is the truth or not, I leave it to the judgement and public opinion. There was no protest of any kind, according to the report always, on the part of residents. On the contrary, residents are very familiar. It is the same residents who gather in this square. That is what I consider to be a pretext for the police in order to legalise the violent incidents that followed. As far as Hive is concerned, it is also disproved by eyewitnesses that there was such a call. I am going to submit a report on the Minutes again, which says that people in no way realised that such a provocation took place. On the contrary, I will testify a citizen who came down from his house listening to voices and simply wanting to find out what happened in St. George's Square, from the door of his house was found in a few minutes of beaten, bloody, charged with heavy charges, without understanding why and how. He says attributes: “I just got out of the house, a second policeman threw me down. From that moment on, everything became blurred. I realized that a lot of cops were gathering from me, certainly five people. One held me still, the rest screamed "you will die..." with swearings and "you are done now". The police were not restricted, of course, only to the individual. They proceeded to hits and threats against the rest of the attendees without the slightest challenge. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. All these arguments which the Minister has sometimes invoked, but also Mr Petsas, concerning compliance with the protection measures and respect for the protection of health protection, we consider that they are really lame. There is a flagrant violation of the principle of proportionality between the concentration, the co-responsibility of these citizens and the genuinely inappropriate and unacceptable attacks on the part of the police, which, if he always wanted to see to it, could make simple recommendations on the part of the Minister. The State itself, in any case, if it wants to keep up with these measures, instead of calling on the police, because it is not its role, can call on EGE bodies to inform the public about the distances they have to keep, to share relevant brochures. We substitute the social profile of the state with the extreme repressive profile, implementing a two-stage and two-stage policy, when a few 24 hours before the incident took place in Upper City of Thessaloniki, a provocative and luxurious fiesta took place in Omonia, where there is indeed a noteworthy lack of police officers. There was no concern there. There, obviously, the coroner doesn't care about us, because he's traveled, he's been somewhere else. Apparently the coronary exists only in the squares. All this is pretexts in sin, and the government is actually afraid at the moment. Its reaction is a reaction to the new civil movements that can erupt precisely because of the real climate and the hard measures that are going to come after the coronary. Because we all know that the squares are a public space primarily involving social movements, expressing social action. So the government is afraid at the moment is a new movement of indignant, not to say disembodied citizens. So it applies two standards and that is why this extreme repression against the social person who must express himself, especially now that the social need is even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, it is still being attempted by some targeting of Greek police personnel, overlooking what recognizes and welcomes the entire Greek society every day, the titanium struggle, that is, the men and women of the Greek Police, towards a successful response to numerous challenges both to the preservation of our borders and to the treatment of an unprecedented pandemic, the COVID -19. The mission of the Greek Police is to guarantee and guarantee internal security and public order in the country. The dominant pillar on which it attempts over time is the absolute respect for the legal order and the unequivocal attachment to the requirements of the Greek Constitution. There is no misinterpretation and no discount on the principles and values which the officials of the Greek Police serve and I want to be quite clear about this. As far as the action taken by the Greek Police is concerned and the measures implemented by the Greek Police in fulfilling its difficult task, I can assure you that they are followed by the principle of proportionality, as appropriate, regarding the type of violation, but also the conditions in the field of its forces. It should be noted, for Parliament's information, that at this stage in neighbourhoods in Athens, such as Kypsel and Thessaloniki, citizens and shopkeepers are concerned about the phenomena of anarchy and destruction of their property, which marginal groups are attempting. They travel by hundreds, desecrate churches, cause passers, undermine drug trafficking. At the same time, at the exit of the COVID health crisis -19, some other groups, more organised and dangerous, blow up ATM banks, burn cars, vandalise buildings. Are you asking the police and political leadership to stay out of this new reality? The answer is no. With methodicity, cooling, efficiency, with absolute respect for the Constitution, the police will accomplish its mission. Public order will not be savaged and the safety of life and the property of citizens will not be allowed to be threatened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S1-commons.u68	With the consent of this House at 10.48 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday 20 May 2020 at 12.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: a decision on the No. Page 128 1312/04-05/2020 of a proposal tabled by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group pursuant to Rules 86 (c) of the Rules of Procedure. 1-3 of the Constitution and 154 and 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. With the proposal, applicants such as according to the number. Page 128 17090/9777/14-10-2019 decision of the President of the Parliament which has already been set up and operating a Special Parliamentary Committee carrying out a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagelopoulos extends the preliminary examination already carried out in order to investigate any further criminal responsibilities of that Deputy Minister for any further criminal offences: 1. Challenge and tender for the execution of a felony (Article 186(1) CI), 2. Extortion (No. 385 paragraphs 1 and 2. Τ old MC), 3. Gifting a political official (No. 159 pp. 1 old MK), 4. Correspondence of a staff member (No. 235 CI), 5. Moral Surgery in Power Abuse (No. 46(1) in combination with 239 CI), 6. Moral Surgery in Occupational Correspondence and Occupational Correspondence (No. 46(1) in combination with PK 259 and PK 259 alone), 7. Criminal organization gang case No. 187 par. 3 (p. 187 para.5), in accordance with the provisions of the proposal, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
