ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 43A and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament and Mr Andreas Patsi and Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 3 June 2020, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of immunity of Mr Andreas Patsi. Furthermore, the same committee announced the report of 3 June 2020 that the members of the committee unanimously proposed that Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis should be granted immunity. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 7 March 2018, this procedure has triggered the new system of electronic roll-call voting. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Andreas Patsi. For information, I tell you that this case concerns acts taken before it was elected as a Member. The same applies to the next case concerning Mr Hatzigiannakis. It is therefore a matter of acts which have been taken before Members were elected, so it has not been done in the performance of their duties, and in accordance with the revision of the constitution, since there is no need to waive their immunity from those referred to in Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure. Both Members have asked for their immunity to be waived. The proposal is by the committee, unanimously, to remove immunities. From that point on, everyone votes for what they think. As far as Mr Andreas Patsi's case is concerned, it concerns tax violations which, he said, have been regulated. With regard to Mr Miltiades Hatzigiannakis' case, when his colleague was mayor in the Municipality of Halkidekon it is alleged that no safety measures were taken at playground. No injury occurred, no physical damage occurred. It's just that the crime is typical. Of course, here I can tell you that this matter is the responsibility of the Vice-President responsible. They have been relieved, so we hope that the court will also go in this direction. Mr. Patsy has a coma and said he wouldn't attend. I don't know if he came in the meantime. I also convey his position to plenary that he is asking for his immunity to be waived. Is there any colleague who wishes to speak on this matter? There's no colleague. So we move on to the second case. I told you what the case concerns Mr Hatzigiannakis. It's just a single matter. Mr. Hatzigiannakis, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u2	No, Mr. President. That is what I said in committee. I am in favour of lifting my immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote includes both cases of waiver of immunity, as I have said. Whenever a case is displayed on the screen a case to be voted on, to show the next or the previous case, you must press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen, respectively. Make sure you have voted on both cases of waiver of immunity. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question, you may ask the Bureau or the relevant Members of this House to facilitate your work. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u4	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, Mr Andreas Patsi and Mr Miltiades Hadjiyannakis. On the case of Andreas Patsi, a total of 138 MPs voted. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 138 Members voted. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. 'The present', no one voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor shall therefore be accepted unanimously. On the case of Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis, a total of 125 Members voted. In view of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 125 Members voted. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. 'The present', no one voted. The request of the Public Prosecutor shall therefore be accepted unanimously. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-06-17-S2-commons.u7	With the agreement of the House at 12.46' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 18 June 2020 at 10.00' on the subject of this House's work, firstly, only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Preparation of the Social Security Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Arab Republic of Egypt and its Administrative Rules of Application", and secondly, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on Maritime Transport".
