ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 10 July 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'An unjustified lifting of academic correspondence between similar departments'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 892-6-7-20, a topical question by the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The government's failure is leading to mass auctions in the autumn." 3. The Question No 902-6-7-20 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Destructive to health and the environment, the government decision on the incineration of waste (SRF/RDF) in the cement industry "TITAN S.A." in Thessaloniki". 4. Under number 879/30-6-2020, a topical question by Piraeus II Piraeus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadam to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Work in the pan-Hellenic exams". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pieria of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Elisabeth (Bettis) Scooter to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Renew the leases of the ‘Public Property Company S.A.’. (EBRD) to Olympic Beach businessmen.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 900/6-7-20 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Extension of all collective agreements". 3. The Question No 903/6-7-20 by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution of the problem of the hundreds of workers, by court decisions, to e-ECKA. Let the redundancies be taken back now." 4. Under No 880/30-6-2020, a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Working in the State Literature Awards". 5. Odyssey Constantinople's 904-6-2020 topical question to the Minister of the Environment and Energy, on "Television Megalopolis". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, entitled 'Daconiania Programme Action 2020'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Special Coronary Aid to all farmers, particularly traditional, inclusive'. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "We need the relief of our fellow citizens who are required in insurance funds, so that they are unable to retire." 4. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Addressing immediate problems of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA)". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "Public outdoor meetings and other provisions". I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the House unanimously decided that the debate should take place in principle and on articles. The rapporteurs and the special speakers with eight minutes of speaking time will be given a precedent in this sitting, and then the rest of the speakers will follow on the list. Finally, it turned out to be a wise decision we made, because I would like to inform you that yesterday there were seventy Members speaking, while a hundred and thirty have been written in total. You realize that if we didn't make this change, we would have been completely out of place and time. Wholesale we have calculated with Parliament's Services, including about two hours for the political leaders - the information says that almost everyone will talk - that we will end around 20: 30'. I say 21: 30 to be inside. So at 22: 00, the roll-call vote will start with the rules indicated by the Health Service, that is to say every 100 colleagues per quarter, starting from 22: 00" until we are done. We estimate that the procedure will take about an hour. Those who, for example, have a surname starting from fil or hi will vote around 23: 00, which will end the vote. One request only: if the two parties which have so far requested roll-call votes want to be held in full, the services of the House will be informed in time for this, because at the moment you have asked for some articles in principle, so that they can enter the system and the whole issue. Don't tell us at the last minute, that is, why we're going to have a problem. We then proceed to the debate. Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and I will only need a little tolerance in time. Yesterday I tried and was very precise in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u3	You will have the tolerance of the Bureau, but it will be minimal, because you have seen what I said about working hours and we have 60 other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u4	I know. But I was, yesterday, very precise in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u5	I know. You were less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a very thorough debate so far because there have indeed been many Members who have spoken, and there have been several constructive thoughts on the drafting of this bill. Allow me today, which concludes this debate in plenary, to reflect on a few key points and to highlight our conclusions from the whole process. We heard yesterday once again by many speakers from SYRIZA, unfortunately, on a repetition of the phenomena and ridiculous juntas. I would not make such designations, but I am forced to do so because of your insistence on expressions which unfortunately belong to another era, which disturb every democratic citizen and which really makes you seem to be in another place and time. This government has had the democratic sensitivity of this very important bill to bring it to the House now, which is completely compositional and not limited, and of all Members to speak and express their opinion and not to be limited because of the pandemic. We have done so with this aim, with everyone taking the floor and everyone expressing their views. I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that it is no coincidence that you have this course since the elections. You are the only Civic Opposition that a year after the elections you are politically dispersed. Not only do you not keep your strengths, but you are flirting every day and you are fast-tracking your historical and traditional rates. And I have a feeling that this problem you've turned into a dead end. This is because you have indeed become a party of opportunity and you have ridden the wave of the antimony and now that we are finished by the dragon, unfortunately the story is ending for you. There's another reason I'd say it's basic. While some of you seem to want, to try, to join a transformation of your party - which is what it is - you unfortunately have such ideological burdens - and this debate in the House has shown this - which is unfortunately extinguished for you - every hope. I said yesterday that we have been delayed forty-five years to change the law of law of law, which even formally came into force and I think most of us here agree, at least those who agree on logic and self-evidentness. You, just because you have ideological discomfort and political weakness, drag and follow extreme voices and reactions, follow rhetoric of other times, as if the problems we have today are the same as the problems faced by Greece forty years ago. I said that to the committee. Today, the real threat is not the tanks, but the badly defined 'fieldway', which I even heard a number of extreme voices calling for threats. It will counteract the 'fieldway', as if we were entering war, as if the world were touching such arguments. Ladies and gentlemen, he is being dismayed by such reports, which we heard yesterday. But that's not all you said. You have done so throughout the past period and in the committees - and several colleagues have pointed it out yesterday - a fierce attack on the police and police officers. Because it's really unprecedented what you're doing. You insist on open expressions and attacks against the body, insult them brutally, question their ability, their education, and in this way you underestimate their personality. You do not consider them capable of doing what is intended to be done by all the police authorities in all European countries. And we don't understand why such a revulsion. Okay, we know you don't love them. I told you yesterday, you have others you love, your own children, but don't yell at it, so don't show your disobedience. Respect at least these people and the effort they make in difficult conditions, in adverse conditions. We all know. I have something else to say. We analysed it sufficiently. All European legal classes in the police have the power to determine meetings, except for some countries, as I have said, the Netherlands, which is the municipality's responsibility. So the SYRIZA government, in the past five years, didn't give the police the power to regulate these matters? And you never changed it. And now we do not understand this attack, where everywhere in the world it is possible for the police to regulate the relevant issues, and for you, for SYRIZA, only in Greece it is not, only in Greece it is incompetent, even though the Minister has brought strong procedural guarantees for this bill. The decisions to ban and dismantle meetings in the past five years who took them? The police. The ban and decision you made, to ban the meeting of the POSY, which I mentioned yesterday in Exarchia, who took it? The police. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, to understand how seriously you are unfortunately approaching this very sensitive issue as a opposition. There has been a lot of talk about Article 4, which provides for the organization's obligations. With the legislative improvement submitted, the article defines and adequately defines the conditions for civil liability discharge, in accordance with the proposal made by the Scientific Council of Parliament. Fears about social groups, such as the MEP, have also been analysed and explained in committee, that their meetings will be banned and blocked, because they cannot safeguard their own meetings. The organiser is required to define a sufficient number of persons, not guarding them, but providing care assistance. In this sense, therefore, assistance can be provided in a variety of ways, i.e. some persons taking part in the meeting can supervise it, identify whether there are any third parties who want to infiltrate the meeting, communicate it to the organiser and he to the competent authorities, who will in turn protect and proceed to better safeguard the meeting. So what they heard is that it was supposed to be the LEADs or the other groups to look after and thus ban their meeting, I think they are at least false and pretextual. I will repeat that Article 6 is indeed the basic provision of this law, because it is a provision, as I have said, of energy, which obliges the State to ensure that the right to assembly is exercised without hindrance. And it is precisely because the State and the police have to protect the right to act, it is an essential security and protection for the citizens who want to exercise their right to assembly. Article 7 sets out the prohibitions imposed by Article 11, in which case I really do not understand what objections have been made yesterday, but also by the committees, because in this sense you realise that we shall have to question the constitutional requirements and conditions laid down in Article 11 as a whole. The provision for counter-demonstration shows that our purpose, the state's purpose, is for this bill to hold public meetings rather than be prevented and forbidden. And rightly enough, the legislative improvement eliminates the "power" and keeps the phrase "indicates an indicative", because it takes into account the comments of the Scientific Council of Parliament. Indeed, the State has a positive obligation to protect the freedom of assembly and must choose the least burdensome measures so that the laws can in principle allow the law and two possible conflicting meetings to take place in accordance with the decisions of the HRC. In Article 8, there is a weighting of constitutional rights and a balance, which at last had to be introduced into our internal legal order, the right of assembly, on the one hand, and, on the other, the right of all of us to security, social peace and public order. Something about Article 9, which refers to the dissolution of the meeting. And that is where the phrase'may be ordered' is used and not 'ordered'. Therefore, in this case, the authorities are not obliged to dismantle the meeting, but to assess the situation and assess the circumstances, and they will always have in mind Article 6 for dismantling and banning and restrictions. So to make it clear: Any restriction imposed at a public meeting should only be done if they assess or that the core and purpose of the bill are affected, that is to say, only if there is a serious risk of public security, that is to say, what the Constitution provides and what is provided for everywhere in the world. I would add, as I have said before, that is to do with the greatest judicial guarantees. For Article 13, I have already mentioned it. After the observations of the Scientific Council of the Parliament and the addition made to the law, it is clear and the issue of the organization's civil responsibility is regulated. For Article 10 and for the criticism that has been made and for participation in the dissolution of the mayor concerned, we, with the bill, attach the appropriate institutional importance to local selfgovernment. This law is also harmonised, as we have already told you, and with European standards, where the mayor really plays an essential role. I also told you about the Netherlands and other countries. In all the changes that the Minister has made, which are important, I think we have achieved two things: and to correct where the legislation has had to - and this shows the democratic approach we have, since we have heard the good criticism - but also to ensure that the law does not end up as unprinted paper, which we are interested in. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I still need some more time, Mr President, and I will finish. I want to go back to what I said at the beginning of my position. I answered what you said about the junta. You are the Party of Officers, and on this very sensitive and important issue, I told you in committees, you have not tabled a single proposal. All that has been recommended - and we heard it again yesterday, by the rapporteur and by other officials - is that it should be regulated by the Criminal Code. All that's amazing. Because the Penal Code regulates the issue, which is - let me say - the clean closure of the eye to lawlessness and anarchy, the Criminal Code is taking action after disasters have occurred. In other words, what you are proposing is that the government should monitor, not do its duty, so let this whole matter be resolved by the courts. And I told you yesterday to end with the euphemism of the 'bugs', and of course you did not say anything, nor did the rapporteur mention anything, because you do not want to disturb your political clientele. And in any case, I will only tell you two things. And your reaction and your real motives we all understand. Whatever you say, no matter how many junkers you are trying to recruit, the essence is one, that your only purpose is in any blind way, in lies, with propaganda, in distortion, as far as possible, to stop this great and innovative intervention and in favour of social peace and economic and security and property. I told you the party's over. In a short time the law will be the law of the state and will be judged by the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u7	Please close, Mr. Carraguni.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u8	I shall end in three minutes, Mr President. I'm telling you again that yesterday I didn't take all my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u9	No, Mr. Karaguni, you haven't, you've taken four minutes already. I can't give you any more tolerance than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if it is 'anti-democratic and crypt-fascist', as you say, this bill will fail on its own. We're here, and we'll see. But we know that it will succeed, which brings me to the second point and I shall conclude, Mr President. We know because we have a perception of what public opinion wants. So let me tell you by the way, because you do not understand and tell all these verbalisms that in democracy the majority rules rather than the minority. And certainly not the very, very small minority of the Exarchates. Let me explain...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Kagarakoni, please very much, close now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u12	Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u13	But you must finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u14	I would ask the rapporteur for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u15	And because I'm talking to the rapporteur? The Rules of Procedure do not make exceptions. I have already made the exception that I am obliged to do now to all the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u16	I shall say this, Mr Ragosi, and I shall conclude. A minority may not be imposed by a majority. This is the basic law of democracy. Listen to this, listen to what the world says about the bill, which 72% of your voters think needs to be changed in this legislative context, follow what society says and do not try to impose your opinion as a majority. And I'll get the right place and I don't think you can call them anti-democratics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Karaguni, do you understand what I told you or am I gonna turn off the microphone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u18	I heard you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u19	If you heard it, please, close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u20	Stay in what the majority says and do not follow minority logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u21	Let me tell you. You must also think of the following Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, yesterday I spoke three minutes less.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u23	Yesterday you spoke less than two and a half minutes - and I said it - and today you spoke six minutes more. I know very well how to do my job. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, listening yesterday to the second position of the Minister on behalf of the government, I would like to tell you that I honestly had a phrase in mind, a popular opinion, if I know well. What he says "It's too late for tears, Stella". It's late for tears, Michael. It was obvious that Mr Chrysochoidis had decided at the very last moment to gather the unblemished. It is true that it has never been so documented, so effective and so - I would say, as far as the opposition is concerned - the degradation of a bill has not been documented. We must tell you that we are very pleased. The main reason why we are particularly pleased is that this debate has taken place within the well-known framework that Greek democracy has been going through in the last year, but also before last year, which we all know very much that the truth is only the one that is transmitted by the so-called systemic media or by what it seems, in the end, that they are constantly deepening their relationship, a relationship of interdependence, with Mr Mitsotakis' current government. In these circumstances, then, without the media, I would say instead, with the media plunging, personally attacked all of us who dared to tell the truth, a completely different reality was formed than what I think the government had in mind at first. How did the government come to the debate on this bill from the beginning? He came with a account. He thought he'd made a story and he'd be able to pass it on to the Greek people. What was that? That it is essentially a bill to end with the fifty who afflict the many on the one hand, that it is a bill that will finally enable the Greek police to intervene in situations where there are or are evolving unlawful actions and also had the invention of the staff to think that this bill will finally pass a courageous government in front of all the cowardly governments of postmopulation, in order to abolish the legislative decrees of the junta, which we have proved to be dead. What proved to be in the process? It has been demonstrated by the photos that we have made public since the first day that the protests of the 50 people have been placed on the basis of the presidential decrees already in force on the sidewalk, that the Greek Police not only retrospectively, but also by the fact that they appear to have an obligation under the Criminal Code to intervene, conceive and lead to justice for those perpetrators who are leading in these illegitimate actions. We also made public tables - but it seems that Chrysochide was late to understand the effectiveness they had, so much yesterday he appeared to be disturbed - with whom he is certified and confirmed that this legislation is literally - and that is not a characterisation, it is not a definition - of a faithful copy of the law of the junta. The only difference is that, instead of cleaning, the primary language is now used. How did we come to this debate? First of all, we have come to the position that the law required by the Implementing Law has already been covered by the Presidential Decrees in force and governing the management of concentrations, the effects of unlawful actions, which may be presented, either on the basis of these concentrations or regardless of them. Besides, it is important to say this and there was no request made by the Greek Police that she could not do her job until today. There was never a request from the Greek police that a concentration should be banned, but there was no legal framework that would allow it or that there was a request from Greek police whenever it decided to place a protest on the sidewalk of a few people, did not allow it the legal framework, the institutional framework, to force it. We have also come up with the view that this is an anti-constitutional bill. We have also come to the point that it is a deeply undemocratic bill, which in reality aims to: it goes on to drown the voices of many, and it actually mutilates the right to free participation in democratic gatherings; it mutilates the right to free expression of citizens, that is to say, in the end, democracy itself is being mutilated. We have also claimed that something still remains to be proved is the only thing that cannot be proved: it is a bill impossible to implement, which in the effort to implement it will make ridicule those who have taken the political responsibility to suggest it to the Greek Parliament, to vote for it and, by extension, as a law to ask the Greek society and the Greek police to implement it. And since we are now talking about the inappropriate situation in which the Government and the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection emerged, I will tell you that yesterday, in reply to Mr Tzanakopoulos, Mr Chrysochidis was again lying. At some point, trying to respond desperately to our objections that their goal is the concentration of many, is the voice of many, is the right of many to say their opinion, their opposite opinion by the government and the authority in question, says: “Who told you that large concentrations are forbidden? It is a lie.’ And Mr. Janakopoulos tells him that I did, I took the bill, and I told him that Mr. Chrysochoidis is lying. If the Government is now in a position to say that it is not true that the draft law proposed in Article 9 provides that the dismantling of a public outdoor meeting which is under way may be ordered, that is to say, that the Greek Police may order the dismantling of a very large concentration which may take place in tens of thousands of workers, unemployed, young people and pensioners, provided that that concentration is carried out without being notified, as provided for in Article 3, that the Greek Police have designated an organiser and announced to the police its implementation. What does that mean, practically? It means that if tomorrow morning ADEDY goes and does to the labour centre of Piraeus or Athens a very large gathering, but it does not announce to the police its realisation and the appointment of an organizer or the PAME goes to a concentration of tens of thousands of workers and does not announce to the police the organizer or the realization of the gathering, the police will be obliged to dismantle it, declare it illegal. This, then, to anyone who wants to be faced with the truth is something that, in addition to all others, leaves no doubt that we will really have to live up to tents of infinite people in the government's effort to implement this bill, which is literally inapplicable, but I repeat, this remains to be proved by life itself. We have come with these arguments. How do we get out of here? I think we are leaving in the best way possible because - in addition to our opinion - of the rest of the parties, MPs and even parties that may vote for the bill - the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, which fully confirms and substantiates all our objections to unconstitutionalism and anti-democraticism, has taken place - these are our own interpretations - and the decision of the plenary of the country's legal associations, which characterise as unacceptable and unconstitutional, has been taken away from the decision of the National Commission on Human Rights, if I am not mistaken, last night. I think that law has already been named. And you know when society gives a name, then we go to what society and people also say: "Better put your eye on you than the name." Society has named this law as "Houseman Mitsotakis - Chrysochoidis". You will see that the next time in all the mobilisations, in all the demonstrations that will take place, for any matter - from environmental protection and the need to deal with climate change to employment, pensions and unemployment issues - the first issue of all the gathered, all Greeks and Greeks, millions of Greeks and Greeks who will be identified with these mobilisations will be to abolish this "hontomist". I'm ending up with two reports. The first is that under no circumstances should we fail to say that, in the end, this 'host-law' offers an invaluable political service. Because it is true at a time when it is difficult for the citizen to tell who it is, and there is this tendency to tell a large part of society that everyone is, now there is a modern symbol, a flagship bill, which will also become a flagship law, which will actually work as a projector who will illuminate this modern separating line between the extreme right-wing logic, between the logic of the populists of the right and the progressive, democratic citizens, and between the right and the progressive side. And I shall end in a minute, Mr President, by saying something about a report Mr Chrysochoidis made yesterday about hostility. Enthusiasm, Mr Chrysochide, is not what you said, it is not the constitutionally established role of the individual opposition officer to criticise the government, the labour and economic issues, both social and everything. It is important that your country should give the battle to resolve the problem with Northern Macedonia in the best possible way on the basis of national interests and, in the final analysis, to bring the Presidencies Agreement here and you - I mean the ones you represent today - to break out into a highly nationalist pogrom against the country's own interests. Enthusiasm, Mr Chrysochoidis, is to have a Civic Opposition that has supported you in an unthinkable way for the past and the Greek party system in the case of pandemic, which has voted with you without having a problem in order to exploit the Constitution and lead the country to early elections to the President of the Republic, which has supported the EEZ agreement with Italy, taking part in the cost of supporting this agreement, and you - that is hostility, Mr Chrysochide - when you have all this, not once told by mouth and by the Prime Minister and all of you in the government a bravoc, a good and a thankful thank you to the Civic Antipolisment and to all parties in the counterpopulation that may have held a similar attitude, but continue to resist and pluralize in a way of populism, in a way, in a vulgar, many times for many people. And one last thing now, because we're talking about hostility, I can't say it. When the problem took place in Evros with a post of a valid newspaper that there was a dead one and the Turkish media relayed it and made it their flag, is it true, Mr Chrysochide, or is it not true that I called you as the competent sectoral by order of Alexis Tsipras before we made any announcement and I asked you: "Is it true what is transmitted or not?" And you said to me: 'It's not true, Yannis.' That is why we did not react, we did not make any announcements. But this is another model of opposition, another model of political culture, another model of healthy constitutionalized political confrontation, which does not go through your mind. And one last thing because I told you who you were sitting next door and you said which flag I was holding. A footnote, an addition, a reference and a difference that I was sitting here ten years ago, was not sitting there ten years ago, and now I am sitting on these benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u25	Mr Kamines has asked that, because of a personal hurdle, he speaks last on the list of speakers, so the special speaker of the Communist Party, Mr Ioannis Giokas, will come to Step. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. All these days we consider that we have explained in detail, exhaustively and with evidence, the reasons why this bill is unacceptable, reactionary and authoritarian, and that is why it has also caused the mass reaction of labour unions, mass bodies, scientific associations, people of science, of art, of culture, of justice, which all of them are demonstrating this afternoon against this bill. And instead of responding to this substantiated criticism we have made, all we heard from the government majority - I very much doubt whether some New Democracy MPs even bothered to read the provisions of this bill - these days like broken tapes were the well-known thousands of lies on which the bill is based and which have all been answered, one by one. For example, we have heard about the shops closed by the mergers, and we have given you concrete figures for the reasons behind the shops and it is your policy, it is taxation, it is the liberalisation of the time limits that all governments have put in place for the sake of the chains of trade. We have heard about the small marches of the fifty people who allegedly shut down the roads, and that is not the case. And of course we have heard your dear argument for years now about the disasters and the damage caused by concentrations, when the true perpetrators of these disasters not only have absolutely nothing to do with the organized people's movement, but also with the responsibility of your governments have never been identified or arrested. You, of course, continue the same violin, the same tape, in order to legalise this legislative monster in the consciences of the people. What's your only argument that is real, that really has a basis? It is that all these reactionary provisions, all these reactionary measures have indeed been implemented and have indeed moved to other countries, especially after 1991 and the global decline of the labour movement, have moved to countries of the European Union, to the United States of America and much more, to the extent that in some countries, even a mere concentration outside the parliaments of these countries is banned, not to mention the criminalisation of communist parties that have made progress in other countries. And what was the result? To launch authoritarianism and repression, reaching the point of seeing incredible scenes of police, state violence and arbitraryness, such as the ones we have recently seen in the United States. These are your standards. These are your models that you invoke and bring as an example to support this bill. Your model is cemetery silence, and transport and literally. What you do not dare, of course, say, because it does not interest you to say is the price paid by the workers and peoples of these advanced countries in other countries by this retreat, apnea, of the labour movement, not only because of authoritarianism, but also because of integration. It was the attack on rights and years' conquests, it was the attack on wages, pensions, it was the deterioration of health and education, it was this whole social setback, barbarism. A single sample of this barbarity has recently been seen with the images of the pandemic in these advanced countries, which you are jealous of and consider as a model: The group graves, the hundreds of victims, the images of people being thrown on the road because they collapsed public health systems. This is your advanced world. The fact that Greece has not been like these countries is also about the fact that all these years, even within the pandemic, some, Mr. Karagunis, workers' unions, health workers, melted their solos on the sidewalk that you have seen - I say, all these years - in order to defend the public health system and not to completely pass on the plans that were intended for it. It's because of this. So when you invoke the other countries, you will say it all. And what happened but what was the price for the people of these countries. Of course you will not, because you too are serving this policy. With regard to the articles in the bill, we have made it clear - and we said yesterday - that the amendments made do not alter the substance of the bill to a minimum. It was just a few changes that were made to form a "sheet of figuratives", which is not even a "sheet of figuratives", in order to create the alibi and facilitate the KINAL to vote for this draft law. But in essence, nothing changes at all. In Article 2, reference shall be made to the restrictions which may be placed at a concentration. It's verse 10. And it says as a possible restriction that the concentration should not hamper circulation. And we're asking again. Is it possible for a mass concentration - and this is also proof that your objective is mass concentration - which has five, ten, twenty thousand participants not to hamper traffic? And how is this consistent with the provision, even of the same civil constitution? Secondly, the restriction issue. It shall be prohibited to block access to public services and public utility organisations. So, in these cases, the meeting is immediately forbidden from the outset. What does that mean? It means that there's no way a union gathering outside the Ministry of Labour to protest about an accident at work or another event. It's forbidden to protest outside PPC because they cut the current off to an unemployed person. All this is forbidden because it is a blockade of public services and public utility organisations. In Article 3, you are putting the obligation of notification, which we have said to a certain extent exists today. And what do you put in Article 3 as elements of this notification? You put the purpose, that is, the content of a concentration. In fact, the bill does not only concern mass organizations, movement organisations. The arrangements of the bill include political parties, the gatherings of political parties. So where will the state, the police, the judge - because you have also put the judge - come to judge the purpose of the gathering that makes a political party? Why are you doing this? You are doing so in order to be able - I am not saying directly, but you are working with a plan - to come the state and say that this purpose of concentration, because it is against the European Union, NATO, capitalism, is not in line with the Constitution and, therefore, it is dangerous, it cannot be done, it must be banned and so on. That is why you are putting the purpose of the gathering, which concerns - and I say again - the political parties. As far as the articles are concerned, we have been detailed in relation to the anti-concentrations. I don't have to repeat it. Restrictions in Article 8. Restrictions are a ban under another name. Because at a gathering that is going to go to the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, the Parliament and which has to go there, because the request that this gathering is addressed there, you say to him "you won't go, because I appreciate with the police's "mediums" that there won't be a lot of people or there's a lot of people" and you tell him "you're going to Peristeri, Agaleo, etc.", in fact, it's like you tell him that this concentration is forbidden. So the restrictions in Article 8 are the ban on meeting. You are simply baptizing it'restriction'. How will the organizers of a gathering be protected against arbitrariness? They will, you say, appeal to the Council of State. In other words, a trade union, a student club, a student community that decided to hold a gathering, and this concentration was prohibited, should appeal to the Council of State. Great inspiration and very supportive of the right to mergers! Mr President, I shall end with Rule 13. In Article 13, the fact that you removed the peculiarity for the participants simply made the need for esteem. Because we have told you from the outset that this is not going to be the case. In fact, it was an article of intimidation, which would only lead to arresting ten and twenty thousand people who participate in a banned concentration. What is the basis of Article 13? It is the civil responsibility of the organizer, who remains. In fact, the objective civil liability of the organiser, in which the person declared as an organiser, must prove - and have the burden of proof - that he has taken all the necessary measures and that the damage caused by various provocators, who have nothing to do with the movement, is not due to him. Where should he prove that the burden of proof he has? Of course he'll have to prove it in court. In other words, these people, pioneers, workers, youth workers, trade unionists, will be drawn to court as defendants, will have the burden of proof, and even if they are justified after some years, they will have suffered a huge, incredible moral, political and economic suffering. With this article - we have told you, we have told you once again - institutionalise social automation, you institutionalise the provocation. Also, you also have business. Because insurance companies already, on the basis of this article, are "closing their fingernails" and preparing their jobs so that trade unions, presidents of clubs, federations, other mass operators, and so on, can enter the courts. The draft law therefore has to be rejected. Today we are calling for massive participation in the mobilisations that have been decided by unions and other mass bodies to withdraw this bill, which, even if it is voted on, will actually be canceled by class, popular struggle, as did other similar laws in the past. That's what he's gonna do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u27	After consulting one another, Mr Mylonakis gave Mrs Adamopou, who has to go to a committee. So Mrs Adamopoulou, then Mr Mylonis, will speak and we will close, as we have said, with Mr Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is that yesterday's sitting was particularly productive. There have been very interesting opinions from the speakers and from the rapporteurs of all the groups. The greatest profit is that the government's real intentions were revealed in relation to the way some arguments were opposed. The original legal interpretations of the New Democracy MPs have been heard, and for some who have studied legal science this is a very big surprise, because some very greys have been heard, we would say inaccurate ones, which distort reality and even culminate in logic and in legal science. You have a very common argument to work on human lives, and that is what we would call an object and proof of cheap propaganda. For invoking the human life and property of some people with a lot of theatricality, do not take into account the fact that your own administration has proved that you are not at all interested in human lives, for the Greek citizen, for the Greek who is currently being motivated and not only is being called upon to suffer all things, but is already targeted and intimidated in many ways. So we are listening to those who once called 'wastast, Gerun' and 'we have eaten it together', now actually turning to the citizen and swinging the finger, warning about the consequences that will be suffered by those who go down the streets. We have heard from the Minister and the New Democracy MPs that the bill respects constitutional requirements. This has been devastated by all the speakers of the Opposition. Legal science itself has yelled at the bronder not, when the obligation laid down for the disclosure, disclosure and authorisation or preventive control of the demonstrations is something that does not follow the constitutional text. To repeat that it is clearly up to the organiser's discretion to make known the meeting and any failure to make the meeting illegal. In short, a fellow lawyer from Thessaloniki, Mr Babis Kourundis, says very well: "The notification itself is a functional equivalent of the preventive licence, which, as you know, is not permitted under the Constitution." Also, Professor Charalambos Anthopoulos recognizes and highlights the deepest problem. "The author of the bill," he says "it seems that he has not understood the difference between disclosure and approval of the meeting. They are two quite different concepts." It therefore concludes that "an arrangement of this kind transforms the right and freedom of assembly into an object of the administration itself." We have also heard you invoking not only the Constitution, but also the European Convention on Human Rights itself, a text which is super-constitutional and super-legislative. When you see yourself in organised and spontaneous meetings, you are essentially in breach of Article 11 of the Constitution, but also of the Convention on Human Rights, which does not accept such a separation and which has judged any dissolution of a meeting of the fact that it is spontaneous, only because the formalities provided for were not complied with. We also heard you say that this implementing law was necessary and that in relation to the objective responsibility of the organiser, the criminal arsenal, the criminal procedure, the legal framework, the legislative framework is not enough, and that we need something new, when the association of prosecutors itself disproves you by saying that the existing legal framework is sufficient and that in the infamous demonstrations of the fifty or the hundred people for whom the whole centre is closed there is already an adequate regulation of Presidential Decree 120/2013 in relation to the competences of the institutions and the servants of the Ministry of Civil Protection. But, as other colleagues have said, this bill is a repetition, it is a transposition of the already existing Legislative Decree of the seven-year period, and that is not something that we call arbitrary and even to promote. Indeed, a special table has been published to compare the provisions of the legislation with the bill you bring and it is clear that there is a very great match. So we are not the ones who have the sense of reason or who are propaganda. We also heard a New Democracy MEP belittle us because we dared to unravel one truth, that police officers are untrained. First of all, this is not something that we say so to put the blame on the police themselves. The deficit in education is the sole concern and obligation of the state. In the state we are addressing the Ministry in particular, because this is an obligation which is essentially the content of the positive measures that the state must take, which is the recipient of the right under Article 11 of the Constitution. We say this because this ensures the legitimate exercise of the right. The President of POSY, Mr Gerakakos himself, admitted it. After a question I asked him about the operational plans in the protests of the few people from which the roads are closed, he said: "I am certainly not the right person, but the police are not in the right direction and are not in the right direction." So you are now going to make the meeting organiser, on the one hand, responsible for playing a role as a police officer, to be the one to advise, to supervise and at the same time to pay them and, at the same time, to account for them as the accountant of an objective responsibility, without any fault - that really has never been heard anywhere in a constitutional text - and, ultimately, it can be the same victim of an organised provocative or ideological action. So we call on him, on the one hand, to play a role that the police should play with responsibility and, on the other, to lose even his own property for acts for which he is not responsible. The new Republic's rapporteur says that the final reason should be for the courts to have him. However, the courts, in accordance with the existing provisions, must give the responsibility for criminal and civil proceedings to the true natural perpetrators of these criminal offences which bear full responsibility and responsibility. So enough with all these misinterpretations and distortions not only in substance but also in legal texts themselves. So enough, gentlemen of the government, we heard you throwing the ball in the platform, throwing the level and the politics, and enough of all these communication shows and any fireworks. It's just things. For you power is a white check, and the citizen must obey and applaud from the balcony. In conclusion, then, I invite you to consider the very account made by the colonel Professor Sotiel in relation to the first birthday of your government. "If anyone wishes", he says, "to assess overall and without any prejudice or ideological obsession in the first year of the government on the basis of its institutional credibility, it will soon find that the image that has been diligently cultivated by a variety of propaganda mechanisms is not in line with reality. That does not mean that there are no positive points. However, ultimately the balance is negative, as the plus is limited only to the pandemic management period, while the others relate to a whole series of traumatic for institutional government practices and conduct, which unfortunately reap a deeply-rooted micropolitics, clientele and authoritarian attitude." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u29	Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have come across the last day of a very important debate, in our view, of a bill, which on the one hand needs to reflect freedom of speech, freedom of thought, freedom of assembly, freedom of protest, complaint and, on the other, to be within the Constitution of both articles - in particular Article 11 with the two paragraphs, paragraphs 1 and 2 - where, although there is freedom of assembly, but at the same time, there must also be supervision in accordance with the law and order of a serious and responsible democratic state. Minister, I should like to begin by saying this: discipline must be conscientious. We must first of all - and I think this is our task - convince the Greek citizen that he, along with his right, must also think about his obligation. There are some who react. And I will say something, without the misunderstanding of my good friend, Mr. Karagunis: He has been misled because the President-in-Office, Mr. Nikitas Kaklamanis, made him three times a comment. Look, everyone's here on the way. The work of each of us starts somewhere and ends somewhere. There, that is, when the freedom of one must begin, the freedom of another must begin. So we shouldn't be that great. We must be calm, reasonable and above all thinking about our fellow human beings and fellow citizens. Gentlemen of SYRIZA and of the KIC, I would like to ask this question today why are you calling people out? Doing a protest about what? For the unconstitutionality of the law? This law has not been proved to be unconstitutional. So, to yell for what? A number of views have been heard here. Example: Should the organiser, who is in charge - not beat him or drag him to court or pay civil liability, this is another matter, another article, to which we are across the street, and we have said so since the first moment - that he is organizing a meeting, a demonstration to inform the Greek police? Should he not have knowledge of the one responsible for the law and order? How, then, will we apply order to a favoured democracy? So that's what we have to leave it aside. We must come to the very serious issues. The very serious issues that concern us and need to be addressed are not to be exploited by the brawlers and by some para-staters who are invading the social group which is protesting about a social problem of their own ranks, and to do damage. Isn't that the problem? Our problem is where one’s freedom ends, another’s freedom begins. When the gatherings are small, fifty, a hundred people - we have said so, there is no need for philosophy of this thing - they can be on the sidewalk. It applies. In recent years, I think, we have solved this problem. Of course, here, Minister, he makes a mistake - and you will allow me - the Greek police to design. I mean, if there's a small gathering out here, it can't close the roads two miles from here. This is a serious, important mistake. So we must give the organisers, above all, but also the world, to understand that the law, order and discipline must apply. We will demonstrate, we will call for both our right to pension and work. After the end of September, when this programme ends, the 'half-dollar job' and there will be no 60% of the 50% supplement, i.e. from 800 to 650, will take 400, will these people not go on the road, will they not protest? They will protest, Minister. They're sure to protest. And they need to yell. "I can't live," he says, "I can't live." On the other hand, the government must also be serious, legislate and act that favours society as a whole. We have seen lastly - we will also say this - that 20 million were given for the media. They're all in a state without seeing each other. And suddenly we see that one takes 1,300, the other takes four hundred. And he goes out "DOL" and says "I turn them back", he goes "CRETALIVE" and says "I don't need you, I turn them back". That means something. Maybe they didn't need the money. It's $400,000, $500,000 for the Doll. But he says, "Hold on. Why is he? On what criteria? To understand, in other words, how the people who are watching this whole situation go crazy. The simple world is watching us. What's he doing now? Why would SKAI get - and I say "SCAI" in introductory forms, one instrument, happened to be "SCAI" - 1.350,000 and the other to get 400,000? On what criterion? Why would he take one site, a person - why does a man have a site -500,000, 400,000, and I, for example, get - where I don't have a site - 1,000? What's the point? How did he get in here and cook that thing? Depending on what the government makes, the world rises up and is coming out and making demonstrations. I think there's a creative ambiguity. On the subject of the organiser, I will insist that it should not be the man who will be dragged to court, who will pay from his pocket, who will run to pay the damages of the shopkeepers. On the other hand, those who are arrested - and there is nowhere in the bill, Minister, and we need to take this seriously, this has to go like an article, it has to go back to the beginning - must be punished very strictly, in order to prevent the brawls, to prevent the vandalists, to prevent these bad people, who are the only problem they have is to destroy. They have no problem, nor do they claim, I think, any of these twenty, thirty, fifty, hundred known - strangers wearing the hood, they have a backpack, they take rocks, they take molotovs and whoever the grace takes. So known - unknown people, who are known for the Greek Police, will necessarily end, if we want to have marches, if we want to have demonstrations, if we want to have meetings of serious people who hear the voice, the cry of society. Because I think it must sound rather than at the end of the day that ten shops were broken, ten shops were burned. Who's gonna pay for this? Who's gonna pay for it? They broke the day before, SYRIZA's gentlemen, on the "big walk", as the party's president, Kyriakos Velopoulos, said, "the bartenders of 500 euros." And at the cost of another 400 euros of plants, 1,000 euros in total the wardrobe. Who's gonna pay for this? Nobody. The Greek people in their pocket. I think the bill contains ambiguities. In any case, we must all be in a good mood, working together on all the political parties, particularly the left wings of this House, so that we can restrain the world, conscientiously, make it its manifestation, make it his meeting, shout out, but not vandalise. I think that only then will we have succeeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u31	This cycle with Mr. Kamine from the Change Movement will be closed. Let me tell you the first five colleagues to talk later. It's Mr. Dritsa, Mrs. Ahtsioglou, Mr. Lambroulis, Mrs. Cassimatis and Mr. Chrysomalis. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. As I said yesterday, in 1975 PASOK had tabled anti-draft constitution to the plan at the time of the Karamanlis government. In the respective article on meetings, it also provided that the possibility of banning a meeting should be made by decision of the Advocate General at the Court of First Instance. What do I mean by that? I mean, it wasn't limited to a mere reason that PASOK was denounced. He has, of course, finally withdrawn from the vote because his proposals have not been accepted. But he sat down and fought it. With this tradition, we're connected today. Because in the bill, what the government has brought us, we have added exactly this legal guarantee of the President of the Court of First Instance to the ban decision. We have added - and accepted - the presence of the prosecutor in the dissolution and decision. We have rejected the outdated offences against the principle, which the government made a huge mistake to try to reinstate after the abolition of the Criminal Code last year by SYRIZA. We also made the reservation at spontaneous meetings, that provision that he said could be allowed and established a preventive system, which is unconstitutional. On the subject of the President of the Court of First Instance, however, the acceptance of our proposal is a stumbling block. Because you close your eye on the judge and tell him he can hide. What will a president-in-law do, who is afraid and not at the height of his mission? He will let it pass 24/7, and with his silence his assent to the ban will be presumed. I think it's disgraceful for judicial authority. You're gonna have to do what the lawyer says. He should not only have the courage to express his assent to the ban, but also to make it in writing. However, this is not the only issue that is still pending in the bill. We have also seen this in the report by the Scientific Office of Parliament the subject of Article 13 on objective responsibility. It is a general principle that objective responsibility, that is, responsibility for acts by third parties, raises constitutional issues. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe and the Office for Democratic Institutions of the Agency for Development and Cooperation for Europe says so that you cannot place the responsibility of the State on the shoulders of the institutions of a right. It's a transfer of state responsibility. It is the state's responsibility to safeguard the peaceful nature of a meeting. I come to the issue of the rightholder. I would remind you that the Presidential Decree currently in force, brought by Mr. He said, however, that the political parties with parliamentary representation or the tertiary trade unions organising meetings are not obliged to make known the demonstration they are doing. I think that precisely because of the central role the political parties have in the civilisation - and I stress it, with parliamentary representation - you should also think about this very seriously. Also, the issue of counter-demonstration why should it be regulated as regulated in the bill? What danger is there if there is a counter-demonstration at the same time in the same place? Clearly, on the presumption, there will be a public security problem with which it has been announced. You cover it in the first paragraph in the article of the bill. He described it as a chatter for Mr. Manitakis in his article on "News" last Friday. He's right. There are many things that you should leave for the presidential decree. These amendments will be tabled. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Scandalides, will develop them more thoroughly. And we shall also provoke a roll-call vote. But the bill at first shall be voted on. What I was taught as a student at the Law School is that no right is unlimited. All rights must be exercised with respect for the rights of third parties. This must be done for all constitutional rights. And that is why there is also the provision in the Article 11 Constitution and the law which it provides for. What I was taught as a student by my teachers was then taught, and that was what I applied as the Citizen’s Counselor, and that is what I tried to apply as mayor. And I am very proud that, forty-five years after the entry into force of the Constitution, the House finally comes to vote on a bill accepting changes to the Change Movement and thus fulfilling a tradition that began in PASOK, to make a serious and responsible opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u33	And I, Mr. Kamine, for the briefing. We'll start with Mr. Dritsa and we'll continue with Mrs. Ahchioglu. Mr Scandalides has then asked for the floor, who was the only parliamentary representative who did not speak yesterday. Mr Lambroulis, Mrs Kasimatis and Mr Chrysomalis will then speak. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Chrysochide, yesterday, completing your speech, you concluded with emphasis that 'the law will be implemented'. It has also been commented on by another colleague if this is self-confidence or threat. However, I do not want to put that down, because it could be said that it belongs to the sphere of self-evidentness. It's the follow-up that you accompanied this phrase. You said: "The law will be implemented. It shall abolish anachronisms called rights.’ Really, Minister, what exactly do you mean? What are the anachronisms called rights? We know in the political history of this country that for the rights guaranteed and constitutionalised and which are still claiming a great deal more, there is at the same time a constant effort to cut or enlarge. This is an endless process, a zoogen for democracy, but also with very serious and dramatic consequences many times, because there are the forces that want to curtail rights and powers that want to widen rights. I can't call them anachronisms. And this bill, if it becomes law and is implemented, is self-evident, and it is also its objective, that it will drastically restrict and in some cases abolish the constitutional right of assembly and the right to protest and claim. That right-wing right-wing right-wing doesn't know. It's out of context, DNA, right. It is, of course, observing the Constitution, but these rights on the right have always been and still are 'necessary evil', a contract of acceptance, because the republics are evolving, the conquests are large, they are guaranteed and they have been guaranteed with all these bloody struggles many times. He can't question them, but he's questioning them in practice. Proof of this is that, if you exclude some election gatherings or some great moments of palal rallying or some artifacts such as Macedonian, the right does not participate in marches, except for some trade unionists belonging to the large trade unions. So you're going to legislate on matters that obviously don't concern you, they're foreign. Because for the people you want to represent, you always want to cultivate them that to solve their problems it is better to have a customer relationship with you and so you don't have to fight. Otherwise, you would also call as a party, as racing parties, because the gathering, the course gives self-confidence to the social body, gives an upgrade to the message, and it is precisely an endless process for those who are wronged, for those who are on the other side of social care and social injustice. This is the essence of the conquest that has been constitutionally consolidated. In this direction, what do you propose? Constantly the misleading thing about being, he says, forty - fifty persons, to God! And what are you doing? You are really compiling basic provisions of the law of law and not just. But to understand the deeper meaning and not complain that we blame you unjustly and that we termite, the false junta's constitution included, while before and after, there was no provision that official warning is needed for a gathering, for a demonstration. Isn't that what you're worried about? That this is fundamental? And what do you do through the strategy of tension, which is at the core of your policy, always on the right? Drive things so that a significant number of gatherings, demonstrations and marches will become illegal. What does that mean? Let the police have an obligation to dismantle them. Is that a strategy of tension or isn't it? Is this a strategy of consensus and social division, or is it a strategy of tension, so that the social forces, the political forces must come to strong competition just that they can't withstand it perhaps, why a state of police, powerful is coming to a halt? If these are not essential, then what are they? In 1980 - and not only then - a course was illegally and without reason to reach the US Embassy on 17 November. Koumis, Kanellepoulou two dead and a huge inconvenience throughout Athens for hours. That's where the Rullie government actually fell. At 12 a.m., Andreas Papandreou made the first statement and recommended a division and consultation. You're gonna make the march illegal and call the police to break them down? That makes this bill saves well. Or will the Minister judge and once will we apply the law and once will we not apply it? At the conferences of PDO and PDOXIA of the highest federations of police in 2012 and 2013, there were decisions and resolutions, if I remember unanimously, who said and asked the then governments not to involve the police in social competitions, because the police are part of the Greek people. Now this point of view has gone unsuccessful. But in fact this message that was given at the time by the resolutions and decisions of these conferences is timely. You will involve the police and the police in a new period of hostility to the Greek people, and for many years they have tried to bridge a gap that has a very long past and not unfairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u35	Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps a few times that, in the debate on a bill of greater political importance, not so much what this bill says, but what it does not mean, what it imply, what gave its rapporteur the incentive to bring it to Parliament, what threatens the political power that he proposes, in other words, the New Democracy, and brings such a bill to Parliament. It is also no coincidence that this bill, which places the right to assembly, actually comes to follow, continues an attack on the other right by collective activity, the right of association. I am talking about the attack on the trade union right, the right to collective bargaining and collective bargaining which is known as the womb of the right to association. The right of association and the right to assemble are the two rights by collective agreement. It is no coincidence that the New Democracy Government, after completing the first attack on one right by collective agreement, also comes to strike the second collective right. First of all, I should like to clarify something to Mr Kamine who I heard before being placed and said that from the Constitution, from constitutional theory, no right is unlimited and all rights are restricted. Things aren't exactly like that. The constitutional theory says, firstly, that no restriction is permissible and unacceptable - it does not even enter into the debate on this restriction - if the restriction affects the core of the right, i.e. if the restriction laid down by the law makes the right practically inapplicable. So the first debate is about whether we have an attack on the core of the right. Here, too, we have an attack on the core of the right to assembly because, with the limitations which Mr Chrysochoidis places on the legitimate exercise of this right, it becomes practically impossible. I am referring above all to the definition of the organizer of the concentration with the objective responsibility that he is supposed to have and predict for all possible evils and to undertake to compensate for any damage that occurs. So here we have an insult to the core of the right. Once we have an attack on the core of the right, any debate on the principle of proportionality is left to us, whether this restriction is excessive or not, if it could be achieved by milder means, etc. So we do not have a weighting of interests here, a weighting of goods, we do not have a weighting of the right of citizens to be in and to demonstrate with the right of others to a quiet social, economic and political life. Here we have an act of insulting the core of the right to assemble citizens and to protest. Point one and point two to Mr Kamine. The constitutional theory also says that when the Constitution provides for the guarantee of a right to specific restrictions, these restrictions are prohibited from expanding. So, you can't, when the Constitution puts two limitations in its letter, you as legislator, come and add two more. This is unconstitutional, and Mr Chrysochide's bill does that. But I come to the political substance, as I have told you, because the political substance is not in the letter, it is not in the wording, the technical details of this bill, and it is in what mobilizes the government to propose such a bill. We must not forget a bill that, as I said, puts at the core of the right to assembly. No-one should - I think - forget that the government has tried to commit a peculiar offence to attend a meeting, to a demonstration which has been banned on the basis of the provisions which it has put forward, even though it has withdrawn this peculiarity, obviously so that there can be some consensus from the KINAL. We must never forget that this attempt was made, because it certainly shows both the intentions of Mr Chrysochoid and the direction of Mr Mitsotakis. Let's go to the political stuff. Why does this bill bring about, for what reason is it insulting the core of the right to assembly? In my opinion, there are two reasons. One reason for this is that many members of the opposition have mentioned it. Who's the congressman? That the government is aware that a major economic crisis is taking place at the moment, a major social crisis, and that the decisions it has made in this economic and social crisis will cause enormous social displeasure, because it has taken decisions which poorly undermine the world of work, lead to mass redundancies, lead small businesses to lock-ups and slowly - and there is a social dissatisfaction, which will sooner or later be formed and expressed. And because this social discontent can't be channelled, manipulated, humiliated, as is done with the twenty million media being given, it can't be enclosed in such ways, it's actually trying here to prevent it in advance by making any expression of it illegal. But the second reason is not short-term. He's deep ideological and structural. We have a political force which, like any neoliberal force, is hosting collective rights. Why is he hosting them? Because collective rights, as I have said, and the assembly and association, express a challenge to this structure, the dominant structure of power, the dominant economic model, the dominant social model, the dominant living model, and the way of living. It is no accident that the attacks made by the police with Mr Chrysochide's orders at the bars, the houlgundian-type interventions in cinemas, etc. Any expression of discomfort or questioning the dominant model of political, economic and social organization is therefore at stake and because it is hosting it, the threat, is trying to make it illegal. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But it's also why he doesn't understand it. It's not just that he's threatening her, but he doesn't understand. It does not understand the political power of the New Democracy, it does not understand society as a set of reasonings that can have common interests, common demands and claim for them, because for New Democracy, as for Thatcher, society does not exist, there are individuals and their families. So he cannot understand exactly this structure of people being, demonstrating and claiming their common interests. But what, in the end - and here is the joke - cannot understand, too, and is seen by the position of the Minister yesterday, is that you cannot do this human tendency, the natural tendency of people to be together, to assemble and claim for their social interests, for their common interests, to limit it, let alone to abolish it. It is funny to think that an administrative measure can abolish this trend. He was never able to abolish it, nor in 18th-century labour claims, in agricultural claims, in the "anti-government" movement, nor now in the United States protests against police violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u37	Mrs. Ahchioglu, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. What administrative measure can really cut off, brake, abolish a human tendency? These are impossible things. These things are almost funny to imagine. In this sense, this draft law will not be implemented anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u39	He will now take the floor, because, as I said, he was the only parliamentary representative who did not speak yesterday, Mr Scandalidis. As I speak of the parliamentary representatives, I would remind you after the change that has taken place that those who will speak before the Heads of Parliament will take the time of their denunciation, six minutes. Those who speak after their leaders will take the time of their tritology, which is three minutes. I'm making it clear so we don't have any trouble later. Mr Scandalides normally has twelve minutes' time, because he did not speak yesterday. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. I can't, I can't stand the temptation not to start something that comes out of me. Here we go again, Micah and friend Yannis. Something connects us to the three of us. We were once all three secretaries of PASOK, everyone at a different time, but in a party that believed, struggled, changed things and moved forward. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday during the debate on unconstitutionalism, the Members of the Change Movement are present today, in my opinion, a significant and almost self-evident amendment, which concludes our positive intervention, not only for the improvement, but also for a substantial change in the nature of the bill. This amendment provides for five things. First, those who, in the context of a meeting, carry out assembly operations that cause harm to the life, physical integrity and property of another are responsible for compensation, Article 13(2). Secondly, instead of substantiating, in the event of an irregular deadline, the provision of an assent, the refusal to provide an assent, Article 10(1). Thirdly, the use of chemicals for dissolving or banning meetings, Article 9(2). Fourthly, it ensures that there is no co-concentration which threatens public security or the disruption of socio-economic life in a particular region and, fifthly, it is attempted to extend the non-application of the provisions, apart from the political parties represented in this House, to the trade unions, which we regard as self-evident. I think, Minister, that the government has the potential, by accepting the content of the amendment, to adopt it and to prove that the most crucial issue of civil and criminal liability, which substantially alters and violates the right resulting from the constitutional provision, really to make the particular draft law that you are bringing to Parliament's vote. These are as far as our proposal is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, what does 'yes' mean to us in the first place? One side thinks that it is a matter of defining the popular movement and the proclamative struggles and that any vote of our own at first would mean a lasting and complete tradition on the right. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I think that results mainly from your assessments of political developments and not because you really believe that. I'll explain why. The other side considers that our "yes" put us in her pocket by making some important retreats that do not alter the original nature of the bill. In practice, however, what does our intervention mean? I want to deal with a number of issues. First of all, it means our will, by acknowledging the problem, to make arrangements to ensure the constitutionally guaranteed rights of free and unrestricted assembly with the lives of the wider region, which must be served as strong rights. Finally, there must be a delicate, crucial executive law under this article of the Constitution. That's what this is about. This law is a law implementing the specific article of the Constitution. Was there a problem to solve? Of course. It has been debated and debated for too many years. And it is not only debated from the conservative point of view, namely repression, but also from the progressive point of view, namely the defence of rights. So an executive law of the Constitution on the defence of rights should exist. The debate, I repeat, is not today and the dystocia of successive governments has not been misinterpreted. The attempts have been made. I can report over five, six attempts. In the end, however, governments did not bring this law to the House either because there were internal contradictions or why it was not. But one thing that has been going on for too many years and has not been covered by an adaptation and a progressive proposal that faces this gap and not a conservative or repressive proposal. So the necessity of the law is obvious. Secondly, the government proposal must not be overshadowed by inaccurate excesses of the type 'jun law', 'copy of the junta' and so on. - Nobody wants to copy the junta, nobody in this Chamber, except the powers that were outside the constitutional and democratic arch, does not want the place to return to that past - because you lose the last trace that you deserved to confront, because you did not give the real meaning and criticism of the government's original proposal, a proposal of authoritarian, unilateral and generally undemocratic. In the name of city protection, the right to a free meeting is erroneous. How? Making the police not only a master, but literally a unique institution that decides on every occasion and also arbitrarily. What about the main? Making the organiser responsible for criminal and civil liability, effectively prohibiting at first instance a huge proportion of the mobilisations and claims of workers and all kinds of social groups claiming rights. What did we oppose in this? The essential presence and interference of justice, which becomes the guarantor of legality. And because I hear various objections to the prosecutors as to whether they are willing to carry out this task, I would say that the judicial authority does not only have an autonomous authority, it is obliged to carry out the duties which the legislative authority actually confers on it. We have also called for the abolition of the peculiarity of the principle of collapsivity, the removal of the possibility of spontaneous assembly being allowed. And now what are we asking? We also call for the organisation to be given discharge from unjust civil and criminal liability and for it to be transferred to the real people. That is the main meaning of the amendment we have tabled today. The government has fully accepted some of these conditions of the institutional guarantees we have proposed. Why would she want to put us at all costs in her pocket and tell us that we identify with her? That's her right. Why so, by a qualified majority, could the law be implemented, because there is indeed, Minister, a failure to implement such laws unless there is a wider consensus in society? Personally, either one applies or the other leaves me completely indifferent. It is important, however, that the law has changed in character and balanced the rights balance. It is very crucial, Minister, to relieve the organiser of civil and criminal liability to make the law truly a law with clearly defined balances and guarantees. Thirdly, in this Chamber, in which, as I have seen all day long, a dialogue of deaf people, and where overcrowding, conflict, complaints and analogies are on the agenda, we decided that our voice should be a voice of reason and progress, a voice which unfortunately seems to be a disparity in the climate. It's not. It is a voice that stands at the height of circumstances, which does not resort to cheap slogan, but to the real structural opposition. What does "structural" mean? Let me explain. You're not only healing the effects. You denounce the scandals, you refer to justice, you ask for the truth to shine, but you heal at the same time the causes, proposing changes, reforms and solutions that push things ahead. You're not avoiding the problem, just counting the political cost. You're trying to solve it by changing structures, institutions, arrangements. And since the debate on this issue has brought about it, I would like to ask the following question: I do not disagree that some are more progressive, some are more conservative. But one could oppose this: who brought 51% of the majority as compulsory to strike? Who brought the retreat back? What law protects auctions from auctioners? Everyone can find a series of actions, thousands of examples for you and for us and for them here, to convince us whether we are progressive or whether we are conservative. So the point is not to be afraid to say "yes" or "no" because some who are in charge of your space, the power of your existence, despite the low-population performances, some who became late Kenyan or social democrats understand that here may not be a great populist power, but there is a soul. We decided to be ourselves, and that is our real power. Fourthly, since you like the story and some of you are struggling to rewrite it, I would like to say to you a few words a statement of my own, a statement of political life and a path of more than four decades. Migration has installed an unprecedented democracy in our country with strong institutions and change has created a framework for social coexistence and cohesion solid. The progressive movement in the broad sense, which changed the course of history, which has brought about any positive change that has taken place in this place, feared to adapt some critical aspects of his policy to the conditions that were radically changed. Now, with pandemic, how much things change in the world aren't said. Let's stay tampered with what we've been saying for so many years since the next day of postpopulation. Let's see what we're going to do in the end. Can I get some examples? I will not go into asylum or the conditions of life in the city as this present problem is. For all of us who have supported progressive ideas, what does it mean today to the ordinary citizen free education or free health? An empty slogan because he pays with his life and education and health. That failure we can withstand? Are we going to change it? Are we going to suggest anything different, or are we going to stay inside the walls closed, within our castles to fight trenches? Instead of looking ahead and opening the way to new progressive twists and reforms, he looks stubbornly back and fortifies the taboo he built. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos Avdelas, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We defend one by projecting a modern personality, but also by being dominated by classical management and conservative practices, the other by highlighting inexistent moral advantages that break down, under the weight of the unthinkable managerial power, and us, reminiscent of the days of old, good! It's time to open new roads. Fifth and last. Ladies and gentlemen, some people are trying to blur the dividing lines between progress and maintenance, the Left and the Right, by choosing one-sided and supposedly effective solutions based solely on science and know-how. Let us take today's issue, the issue of the pleading struggle. Conservatives have invented appropriate words. Shall I number them? Regularity, rightfulness, challenging, collaboration. With normality, they don't want the regime to be disturbed. They don't want any blocks on the road. And in 2008 there was a crisis and shock that showed the deadlock of market capitalism, but neoliberalism found the way, found the opportunity to reproduce the specific structures that led to the new crisis. Claiming, rightfulness breaks down the essential concept of rights and claims, in order to lukewarm the continuation and suppression of them. The progressive forces are struggling hard to incorporate rights at work, education, health, safety - and security that is a crucial and decisive right in today's era - and equal access to social and technological goods. Ladies and gentlemen, the equal opportunities and merits society is not subject to discounts. We all have a right to prosperity separately, but we also have a right to security. And human history is full of social and challenging struggles that have led to progress. It is time to stop sowing winds and reaping storms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u43	Until the space is cleared, I will give the floor for a minute to the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr Dimitrios Tsanakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I fully understand political controversy and fully respect the exchange of arguments within Parliament as well as outside. I also understand the need for the Change Movement to find arguments, to justify an incomprehensible political choice, to participate in a parliamentary consultation procedure for a bill, which is completely unconstitutional and the only correction that can be made at this stage, is the withdrawal of the bill itself. So I understand the need for the Change Movement to justify, in any case, this choice that is a deeply conservative option. But in this political controversy involving the Change Movement with SYRIZA, I heard Mr Kegeroglou yesterday, but also today Mr Scandalides repeat the same inaccuracy. What's this inaccuracy? It concerns, first of all, the so-called legislation of the SYRIZA, which allowed lockout, that is, the retreat or the employer's strike. Let me inform Mr. Scandalidis and Mr. Kegeroglou that this is not the case. They probably believed the media propaganda at the time when they said SYRIZA would be forced to vote for the retreat. Not only did this happen, but on the contrary, this demand, the International Monetary Fund's requirement, was rejected during the negotiation. A second issue in relation to 50%+1% for strikes. Indeed, that was a demand from the International Monetary Fund, but it has now been limited. Take note: While the International Monetary Fund and the European institutions asked for 50%+1% to be present at the general meeting, to be regarded as having a quorum that would vote in favour of or against a strike, so that it would be legitimate to make a decision, we were able to limit this only to primary unions. In other words, it does not concern 50%+1% of secondary clubs, neither labour centres nor, obviously, tertiary unions, nor supranational primary clubs. In fact, it's only about primary unions in business. It is a pretext that this decision, obviously, would have only been taken under the extreme pressure of the European institutions and the International Monetary Fund in a given treaty.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u45	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u46	The third point I would like to say, to conclude, is that Mr Scandalidis and Mr Kegeroglu forget that they were the ones who signed their signatures or, in any case, participated in the political force that placed its signatures in the Act of Ministerial Council in 2012, which reduced the minimum wage horizontally across the economy from EUR 751 to EUR 586, established the subordinate wage that the SYRIZA government abolished and is also that political force, which abolished the principle of expansion and the principle of more favourable regulation, namely, the basic principles of collective bargaining, which SYRIZA restored in 2018, immediately after the exit from the memorandum. So they want to forget them - and I say again - in their efforts to justify a political choice, which, both within and within society, seems completely incomprehensible, that is to say, to enter into an interactive debate with Mr Chrysochide, on how a punitive bill will become less punitive. That explains the political embarrassment of KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u49	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, there are decisions in politics and not declarations and intentions. And the decision was, the opposite of what you said. He's beating the heart of the union movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u51	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u52	Listen, we know something. He's beating the heart of the union movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u53	And we know something, it's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u54	Don't say it doesn't apply to labour centres and federations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u55	It's not true!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u56	Will you please stop? When you were talking, I interrupted you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u57	He's right, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u58	I'm saying it doesn't matter. Of course, it is not true, but in the workplace and in the federations they are representatives, who are not prevented from either shifts or from employers' terrorism or from anything. The heart of the trade union movement is the primary union. So there, where workers work on three shifts, and they cannot always get together and have a second assembly, so there, where there is employers' terrorism and monitoring, that is exactly where you offer the best services and don't tell us now about labour centres and federations. Therefore, 'circumcised silences'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u59	Please, be quiet! Everyone says their point of view, people judge. Please, it's not a café here. We continue with the Communist Party of Greece and the F Vice President of the Parliament, Larissaios, George Lambroulis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Apart from the fact that the provisions of the bill constitute a poor imitation of verbal decrees, the main thing is that it is taking further steps to promote a series of modern mechanisms of repression and terrorism much more dangerous. That is why the Communist Party has already called on the committee to withdraw this bill. And only as a challenge can government propaganda be taken on board, but what has been heard and said in this Chamber on two days, who is trying to forge this monstrous event to ban demonstrations as a bailout for traders, for example, when professional governments at the same time know very well which governments with their policies have led to today's deadlocks, who rocked and rocked their competitive incomes and led them to overcompensation to banks and public authorities and to the nightmare of seizures and auctions and others. In vain, then, mocks and branchers of urban designs are struggling to incriminate the mobilisations that paralyse the center and the market, when they know very well, as all of you know, that from 2011 to 2016, for example, tens of thousands of small businesses, due to the capitalist crisis and the monumental policies that accompanied it. Truly, is it the demonstrations or the domination of chains and multi-shops in the market and the cracked popular income that shut down or plant shops in the neighborhoods, and around Athens, but also in Athens, but also in Thessaly, in Larissa, and throughout Greece? In fact, even more challenging is the invoking of avoiding the suffering of a majority, but which is being tortured by the reduction in wages, rotating labour, unemployment, the unspeakable burdens of small and individual enterprises, and the enormous shortages in public transport. The list is long. Really, isn't this all a problem for the majority, and not just? So your poorness is not the protection of the right to assembly, or the objective of the bill is 'bugs', as you call them, but you aim precisely at mass, class and guarded demonstrations, those whose content does not suit the system, and on the contrary the others, for which you are allegedly legislate, which do not disturb, especially the state mechanism, the system in order to slander the class labor movement. That is why you are setting up a modern ideological, repressive, scavengering mechanism that will intervene from schools to universities everywhere. The aim is to confuse, criminalize, prevent anyone who resists, fights, disputes, for anyone who conflicts with the present dictatorship of capital. This is the heart of the bill and is based on the directions of the 'democratic' European Union, which you are all drinking water in its name, namely the implementation of the European Union's strategy to counter terrorism, as has already been reflected since 2005, and the aim of the communist ideology and its equilibrium with Nazism and the ban on the action of communist parties in many Member States of the European Union. Is it not the 'democratic' European Union that characterises as a ideology of violence any real opposition to today's capital dictatorship, employers' violence and state repression that supports it? In addition, the 'democratic', otherwise, the European Union, six months ago, recorded in its annual report that the risk to its security stems from popular protests, and this - not to forget - was voted for by New Democracy and KINAL, while SYRIZA voted for it. And now SYRIZA is pretending to be the innocent pigeon. Truly, did SYRIZA forget his own peculiarities, or that as a government he did not abolish the terrorist, or that he did not cancel the law of law and royal decrees, or that not only did he maintain, but that he extended the repressive framework, opening the way to limiting the strike right? For example, Mrs Ahtsioglou may have referred to collective rights and the right of assembly and association, but you too have signed your signature with the strike laws and the attack on workers' collective rights. That's not what we're forgetting. Therefore, if something proves by this bill - monstrous deed - that anti-grassroots policy and the attack on the rights of workers, bio-cultural farmers, self-employed, youth, the majority of our people, will escalate in the name of capitalist development, capitalist recovery, investment in European Union - capital, while for those who are not convinced, cannot tolerate and are not compatible with a life of chamois, with crusts and callippial promises, they are being suppressed, criminalised by the struggles, the courts. At the same time, it turns out once again that your democracy, the dictatorship of capital, that is, when necessary, flies into a basket of unusable rights and freedoms. That is why our people, with their struggle, will, in practice, cancel this piece of legislation, as they have done with many similar laws in the past. And this law will stay on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. We will continue with Messinio Mr. Miltiades Chrysolallis from New Democracy and Mr. Vernardakis will be prepared by SYRIZA and then by the JRC, first by Leonidas Stoltides and then by Mrs. Kanelles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been watching and listening to the bill since yesterday and we sincerely hear designations in this Chamber, mainly from SYRIZA colleagues, and no argument. What we have heard about substitutes for the junta, what we are democratically unconscious, what we are legislating against the provisions of the Constitution, introducing supposedly unconstitutional provisions. Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, is there some self-consciousness in SYRIZA? You know, the two sooner jokes are the moral advantage of the Left and that the Left - from this step was taken by Mr Tsipras - it is every word of the Constitution. And from what he's seen, he's broken every word of the Constitution. Your reasons for protecting the constitutional right of assembly have been omitted, as if two days now we are discussing the abolition of Article 11 of the Constitution. There are strong reasons why democratic freedoms should be suppressed on the grounds of criminalization of citizens' freedoms. And you say it, who? You, who were here, from outside, chemically, tear gas in a million people, to older people and children, when they wanted to express their opinion on Macedonia. If possible. We all remember. Restore - you say - in the consciousness of the citizens of hatred for the Greek police officer. That's too much. Carry on with that catapult. I'd rather you'd come here with some positive suggestions. You didn't choose it. If you would like me, Minister, we can be critical from now on. This draft law was late to come. He should have come from the early days of rule, we would have saved a lot of hardship, many of our fellow citizens here, downtown. This bill ensures an unobstructed and secure expression of the constitutional right of assembly for all citizens and ensures on the basis of what the country's Constitution provides. Since yesterday we have heard you talk passionately about everyone's right to exercise their right to exercise their right, wherever they wish, under their own terms, regardless of the rights of the others who are being violated. A word to everyone who every time they start a course lose their tranquility, fear their property, lose their temper in the car and sometimes lose their lives? Maybe if there had been this bill for years, there hasn't been Marfin's dead. We, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do not read the Constitution selectively, nor do we defend it as a card. We also defend the right of the Greeks as well as the right of each of our fellow Greeks to participate in the social, economic and political life of the country. We can't hear you suggest something or say something about these calls of small and medium-sized traders, the centre's small and medium-sized ones, who if they get away from breaking and plundering their shops every time they start a course, they're sure they won't find a client in. We do not hear you share their anxiety, we have not seen you understand the suffering of workers who are trying to reach their jobs. We can only hear you defending a right that is not being destroyed. On the contrary, as the Constitution lays down, it regulates legislation, as almost all western democracies in the world have done, regardless of political direction. I have turned over to various European countries, and perhaps you should see this, Mr Minister, I saw in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, for example, that they are designated up to certain areas around parliament and the constitutional court where their hours of operation cannot take place protests to prevent them from operating. Of course the Left will say "What do these porcupines know about open-air meetings?". Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I understand why this bill bothers you. This bill stops immunity from being a right. This bill ends this traumatic story about our democracy with the bollocks, with your "children", as you have said, who do not hesitate to destroy property, threaten lives, dismantle peaceful gatherings and generally cause chaos in the center of the capital. As many of your members have said, 'What is wrong with the molotovs?' For us, molotovs are a bad thing and will be punished. Of course, the privileged immunity you have provided to them over the years and of course the 50 and 100 people will cease to suffer the daily lives and economic lives of thousands of our fellow citizens. There will be demonstrations and there will be no trouble. They're ending the concentrations, which I honestly don't understand what point they have beyond causing episodes. However, because they will be transferred to another location, the rights of all will be protected and so we will really see what gatherings are going on about the substance of the protest and what is simply to be seen and the "badification". I understand that you do not like the guarantee of the democratic right of everyone to meet and protest peacefully without violating the rights of our other fellow citizens. I understand your discomfort and difficulty in accepting it also appeared from your lack of arguments. You have nourished the movement of disastrous indignation for a long time. It's hard to separate yourself. That's what you're betting on. You bet there's gonna be an indignation that will grow again. Unfortunately for you, you will just be desperate to wait for both poverty and indignation. This government has shown that it has solutions, has a plan, and don't expect any of them. I would advise you to see your opposition tactics otherwise. Your right, of course, does not make me "hot" how you stand up. But society sees it and it is good for democracy that there is a serious opposition. Perhaps you could start with this bill and vote for it. You'll be judged again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Christoforos Vernardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is the definition of state authoritarianism. It is indeed an integrated policy with an ideological core, with strategic objectives, with implementation political and administrative tools. Two are its central components: the idea of preventive repression and the renewal of the concept of internal enemy. Repression from a potential possibility of the suppression of dominant classes in the face of acute social problems is transformed into an institutional day-to-day public space organization, stands into a central ideological doctrine of state policy. I understand the sensitivity of some of the New Democracy officials and some government officials, including the current Minister, who react when they hear the criticism that they are pursuing a far-right policy. But see, the right to assemble with the rights of protest, rebellion and even power resistance is an individual and social right already by early Enlightenment. Any regulation which attempts to harm this basic right, contains structural elements of authoritarianism, regardless of intentions and fate, of these arrangements are, on the one hand, the laws of the state of emergency, the dictatorships, the junta of Greek and, of course, the experiences of building an enemy in other countries, such as the case of the American police, which we are seeing at this time with the phenomenon of racist violence. The restriction of the right to assembly, gatherings, demonstrations and mobilisations is the front, behind which it aims to establish supposedly a social consensus on the basis of the well-known argument that concentrations of small or medium-sized ones create disruption to other social groups. However, the real question for the bill is not the usual gatherings, it is the large number of social mobilisations that can be predicted or controlled, and therefore a preventive arsenal of criminalisations and parallel inspections, from the bureaucracy of the statements, the criminal and civil responsibility of the organisers to the peculiarity in the event of spontaneous mobilisation. Central key is that the police can judge or suggest whether concentrations can hire a subversive or antisystemic character and if so, even with the assistance of judicial authority as attempted to correct it now, dismantle them. The police, i.e. gaining their own political opinion, are transformed into an ideological and political intervention mechanism for the evaluation and control of the daily public space. Specific reference should also be made here to the fact that the bill establishes a wide network of monitoring, intervention and prevention organised by the police, the port, the municipal authorities and also economic operators, whose activity may be affected by the mergers. In other words, we have a complete reintroduction of a renewed ideological and organisational police state and a change of dogma, of course, since the police from mechanisms to control, prevent and arrest crime are turned back into times of pre-multiple intervention in social processes. The most important point of the bill, however, is that the most undemocratic serious diversion is identified in Article 19, where a new independent service is set up under the title "Address for Prevention of Violence". It is about overreacting the one that will be empowered to control all aspects and levels of social, political and collective action. First of all, the design and implementation of a national strategy to combat violence. The central objective of this strategy is to revise and restore the concept of inner enemy. Initially, it aims to define the legality and scope of social actions, depending on how annoying they become for the reproduction of sovereign political and economic forces. On substance today the effort is to reduce the area of democratic legitimacy, to disarm the radicals or "extremists" in an area of illegality and, above all, to create a legality that is expanded or suppressed depending on social tensions and claims. The reintroduction of the internal enemy cannot, of course, be the well-known old communist risk of the post-election period. He needs to disguise himself. It is now explicitly identified in all kinds of antisystemic reactions and if the explanatory statement is foul at this point to describe it as the inner enemy, the Prime Minister himself has taken care of a few months earlier, on 20 January 2020, proclaiming this bill, to identify the new internal enemies as well as their means of combating them, presenting a so-called genealogy of terrorism. This is the speech referred to as a follow-up to the anti-democratic struggle, fans and members of the extra-parliamentary Left, and ultimately to the Left as a whole, which, in the opinion of the speaker, remains the potential uterus of terrorism, then the progressive concept of which many representatives unintentionally joined the ideologies of terrorism, then to youth and, in particular, to students, as illegal protests at a school are easily converted into occupations of a foreign building and to the the theory of the 'broken window' is deliberately equalised, but, above all, - and this is important - by means of responses to the peculiarity of the social area expressed by buildings or by activisms in public places by various collectors of youth. And finally, it expressly refers to the speech to "greater popular masses that claim rights, because the state's chronic inertia has allowed the culture of violence to spread to society, to spread to many cities and certain neighbourhoods even to have status characteristics!"
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u65	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u66	I would like one more minute, Mr President. This pseudo-socialology of the Prime Minister, which also governs the philosophy of the bill, is based on the logic that every social protest involves terrorism or crime. The new internal enemy of the regime is who, in practice, disputes this view in all areas of public space, is the Indians who will protest against the invasion of armed forces at home, or the Zach Kostopoulos who will be lysed to death, but who is not responsible, are the residents in the Stayats of Volos who do not want the water of their source to be privatised, are the solidarity groups, the refugees who want to go to school, mainly and above all all, of all labour and social protests about flexible employment, wages, hours, uninsured work. When democratic leftist forces recover the majority of the bill as a whole, the address to prevent violence, but also a number of similar logical addresses, parts and services of the deep authoritarian state that survive as public policy structures, must be abolished to protect democratic legitimacy on the one hand and, on the other, the dignity and empathy of the majority of children working in the police and all they seek is a peaceful relationship with society and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Bernardakis. We go to the beautiful Thessaloniki and to Mr Leonidas Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. We must say that all of you, one after another, are the governments, as unrepentant Laskaris, to feed up your illusions of finishing, to unblock with class struggle, to behave as unscrupulous servants of business groups, refusing to accept that the attempt to knee off the labour and popular movement has even been devastated in dictatorship even in occupation. However, the dreadful smokescreen for a alleged solution to the suffering of the people and breath to traders by the constant mobilisations also expresses your Government's concern at the difficulty of persuading the audience's closest. And because a lot of the reason for people's decisions, we remind you that you are in the country's rule with 38% of the electorate, 23% of the Greek people. Unfortunately, for you too, we have daily contact with all the social groups, people's strata, farmers, professionals, self-employed, scientists in every sector who, despite temporary delusions from your administration, are increasingly aware that you are stifling them with all sorts of taxes and rafts and that you are systematically sending them to extermination to gain ground for the great business interests. And there's no one who doesn't say that if the workers don't have the chance to buy, then we go losers. You really talk to who and they tell you about the protests? It's a matter. We transfer you here, too, what they say when we tell them about the bill to curb the demonstrations. They're laughing, they say, sadly the rulers if they think that in the face of the destruction of our families, our property, our children will scare us of any form of repression. It is obvious here that you speak with others and we all know very well who you're talking to. We remembered both the workers and their movements, after you closed the APRC so that the employer could irritate them by 12 hours and 15 hours to wait for hours for the extremely expensive rots and the media in which they are stacked as sardines, you sell them and solutions through their opposition to those who are fighting against them. Of course, you are not disturbed by the forty, fifty-five proboktors you have left for decades, but by the fact that you have not been able to break the discipline and protection of the class pole in the labor movement in order to wrap it in a paper glue. And of course now you think you have found the solution for them to continue to break even to kill and to be called upon to pay the pioneers of the movement. Get ready, here's the stuff, because you all know very well that our people won't sit on their eggs waiting for the coral to be taken home by the bankers. Thousands of unemployed workers and self-employed professionals from the closure of PPC, LARCO and so many other important for the development of the industrial economy will not sit on their eggs when the government tells them to go and find something else to do. Thousands of workers and self-employed people will not sit on their eggs in the focus, on tourism, on trade, on the agricultural sector that are booming with the political and financial support of monopolistic groups. It is not with crossed hands that our people will be sitting before the danger of dying massively from the shortages of elementary infrastructure in hospitals and health centres for the benefit of not only useless, but also dangerous, business groups in health. The youth who invite her to become increasingly undergraduate and study will not sit on her eggs to pay more than she will pay out of the unscrupulous wages of an entire life. The people of Thessaloniki will not be left with their hands in the face of the carcinogenic development of the profits of the ELPE and TITAN, as is shown by the aggregation of thirty unions, anti-poisoning the poisonous incineration of the waste that escalate their opposition. Labour farmers and professional scientists will not tolerate a hunger pension after sixty years of work on the basis of new employment relationships, as they will not tolerate the fact that with the new anti-insurance monastery, if they manage to get away with coroners, they will owe for hospitals even a million dollars, such as in the United States. Most importantly, however, the workers who produce all the wealth on which they are based, those who build everything, those who build everything, who bring about the fourth industrial revolution, who develop science and technology, who launch production, will not tolerate a life of work with sunshine, without rights, free time, family and social life and with wages that will not even allow them to stand on their feet the next day, and that is to fill their chests with a handful of pests in the economy by the shareholders of business groups. That is what you have secured by the eleven acts of legislation in the middle of a pandemic. The fact that without exception anyone who asks for a worker, a farmer, a self-employed, a scientist, a professional, a dealer, a shopkeeper no matter what the vote tells you that whatever he has won it with races, that everything that has not left it with races, and that shows that he holds the power of the coil that can be set in motion and lead them to the clearing. And that's what really scares your bosses not all of them meet in an alliance social against their common opponent, that is, the minority of business groups and the greatest nightmare with the radicalization of the present on the same date. They may catch a place the millions you spend to falsify history, but nothing can stop social evolution, because it is guided and you all know it very well by the need of many and not by the desire of the few and you, gentlemen, the goodness of history, written by the needs of the people, have stepped on it for good. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. We continue with a Communist Party of Greece and Mrs. Liana Kanelli is called at Step. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. It is strange that one of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representatives always decides to slap his legs when he speaks of a communist here and with the backs permanently to the speaker, it is enough to be from the JRC. And I can't do everything I don't see. Like I can't do and I can't hear. How can I not hear a few things in here? Mr Chrysochoidis, on the basis of what has been said so far and especially by the MPs, particularly the Couple, but also many others, you have wrongly brought the bill today. You should never have brought it. Never! The Ministry of Transport had to bring it in. The whole democracy of Greece is a transport problem. What the hell did you want to bring the protection of the citizen, human rights, primary unions, the least evil anti-government bill on the left-third memorandum in relation to the most evil of first-government and second-government? Are you kidding us? Is that a transport problem? To see what extent you are able to cause provocatively in terms of the state of transport problem, in order to cancel an event, you only need to have gone once on the derby field, where in view of the incidents that will take place, four metro stations are closed. After closing four metro stations, I wonder why he never came out to protest where the derbys become a New Democracy Member who listened to him last night, about midnight, saying that "and what will the other one who wants to take his child to the doctor?". It is the same thing that we heard about PASOK, that for Chigov's urine Larissa cut off for the sour horse in Greece in two. My colleague, Peter Kostopoulos, said that "How am I to go to see my mother, which is the road from the farmers' demonstrations?" And someone answered that "you have money to hire a helicopter to go and go through the protest." It is the same time that you had the violence - violence - extremism in a government proposal from Evangelos Giannopoulos to say: "Cut off with a knife and shut up the tractor tires." It was legal violence, legal extremism. Oh, no! It was progressive. It was the power fantasy. It was a pseudo-chip, a good argument. The problem is always ideological and it is 'cui bono', 'who benefits', why do you now bring this. Why do you bring it? Mrs Ahtsoglou said in her intervention at some point that "we had to bring back the Troika, 50% +1, and only brought it to the unions". What requirement is it now? What requirement? Europe, which wants to bring it all together and do it evenly? What Hitler, what Stalin, what left, what right? Where are your sensations about human rights, when whole young people, like the Czech communist, parties whole, within the Europe of twenty-seven, the democrats, everything, have no right to go to elections, to make a protest, right to be present? Where the hell have you been, so that you can discuss rights here today, even if you are defending the right, but that you want to lay rules and conditions? In what Europe? What technological age? Have you been at a station, at work, at a supermarket, five minutes before the end of your shift, coming with sms or discharge? Are you fired with sms? And then he won't be able to gather with sms at that time, who's been fired with sms? And what will the workers who will have come with the sms do? They'll go home, they'll call, send an e-mail, they'll appoint a representative... Gentlemen, if you want to get in touch, find some more modern way. Send sms to each other when the speaker speaks. We're in modern times. Open your e-mails to see each other on the screen. Because by the distance of two feet you can't whisper. Also, you can't do side policy. And with such bills, you can't whisper what else is your purpose to control the purpose of others. That is why you are not excluding the parties, as the comrades have told you here. That's why you don't exclude anyone. That's why you've put ratings on extremism, ratings on one, ratings on the other. For traffic issues. You demand representations and negotiators. Who? What representative democracy? Let's see, what representative democracy? So, let's put a little on the way the people see at the moment we're talking about, yesterday, tomorrow, on television, the media. What they took or what they didn't get? What's wrong or what's wrong? The ones that are governmental or the ones that aren't government? What does he see? What does it see in representative democracy? What did he hear? Mr. Scandalidis says: "We are three here from PASOK. Today, we are all three in different parties. This is what it sees in representative democracy. Everyone did what they wanted. Three people in three different parties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I also heard Mr Ragosi saying: 'You were there, I was here, sitting in the same chairs.' Consolidate the benches. Then the coroner came in and made them more sparse. And because he made them more sparse, did ideologies come together? The mobilisation, the meeting, the decision, the purpose is to define it? And do you boast that there is a strong democracy? In strong democracy it should - if there were such a type of representative strong democracy - be able to make any open assembly without breaking. It has no reason to break anything but the roots, the ones to be broken, to be really radical. And not to be constantly involved in the construction, the pragmatism of democracy. And discuss public ways to overthrow this culture, because it doesn't like it. This should be a democracy, talk about it in despair. Not make it work out to build nephew negotiations, with which it has to discuss why it will come out, what time it will be. I will close with one example, for the rest of you to realize what you are voting on. In the presence of a prosecutor, no prosecutor's presence, nothing. Tomorrow morning you have a big deal to sell to Americans, NATO, to anyone, a port. The agreement is on the table. And on the eve of the deal, which you want to celebrate at the harbor, why have we seen it in Prespes, with hats, with boats coming, with ports, with those, with the other ones, the ceremony being nice, fancy, and people gathering, what are you going to say to him? I reply to the gentleman from the Greek Solution asking: 'Why?', 'What is the purpose?' Really? "The purpose is that we do not like this bill. That's what the rally is about tonight. He shouldn't even have been filed. This is why the demonstration is being made." So we can answer him sometime.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u71	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u72	So, what will you do when someone is gathered to spoil the ceremony of an agreement with which he does not even accept to be an accomplice? Good time, bombing Palestinian villages, good time extending to Palestinian settlements. If he goes out of the embassy spontaneously, why did it happen an hour ago or two hours ago bombing, what are you going to tell him? ‘Get an intermediary’? And with what diplomatic passport? When we talk about such bills, not to say that memory has "closed legs". Because when we in this House, under the Rules of Procedure, cannot get together on time, because we have not reached our time, we have the opportunity to say that we are making a roll-call vote and putting it three days later, so that everyone can get together from where they want, covering transport. We're at ease. The people must be present at that time and with their negotiator. You hypocrites and Pharisees!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. Warm request. Because in the New Democracy you have gathered many, as the Prime Minister's arrival is imminent, to leave a vacant post. I would ask you very much to set an example, not just to ask the world. And you here at SYRIZA leave a vacant post. Mr. Panagiotis Skouroliakos is called in Stepma by SYRIZA. I am not saying the following Members because, as you understand, we have two loose ends, one by the Prime Minister and one by Mr Velopoulos by the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, no, it does not seem to us that Mr Mitsotakis' government has brought this inspiration to the Greek Parliament, as many of us have said in this Chamber, a bill on outdoor public gatherings. Alas! If this government didn't bring it, who would bring it? What if the majority of our fellow citizens believe that the right to assembly is an inalienable constitutional right. What if the plenary coordination of Greece's lawyers denounces this bill as unconstitutional? One hundred and fifty eight Members of Parliament have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you have, you decide yesterday that the bill is not unconstitutional. Truly, why does the New Democracy Government restrict the right to assembly? First of all, for reasons of ideology. As he has so far shown, whatever charity, anything in favour of society is black cloth for it. We saw it in the previous bills. We're seeing it today. So you create a social automation. You put citizens against each other so that with this controversy your government can do your job undivided. On the one hand householders, on the other, are rebels - irresponsible to close the streets, so for the sake of taste. Alas, though. Be careful, because it's often housekeepers who close the streets because they feel they're not going anymore. The protester's not a criminal. It just has a different view, something you obviously do not like, you do not tolerate it, it is not within your political culture. You just want to impose the herd's fatality. Then you wonder why the Left is ideologically dominant and you're disturbed and you're bothering and you're saying it. But it's her ideas that give her the hegemony. Your ideas "lamp" with this inspirational bill you brought and you will vote along with your supporters. But you are bringing this law and for completely practical reasons. The new economic crisis that hits our country will turn boomerang for the government, you know that. It is not enough for the ribbons and snakes to convince the people that they do not gravitate, as much as they repeat it to them well-paid media from the Mitsotakis - Pessa list. Some return the pocket and denounce the proceedings as questionable and these distributions too. But citizens understand that all this is communication and the essence is that more than two hundred thousand people recently unemployed are at the moment, those who find that 800 euros for three months are foolish and that those who are not entitled to it and who have not taken it are not most. And when it's time for the housekeeper to react, the government wants to be ready, keep the wretched and lost citizens in their home and not in the streets. He's still bringing this monstrosity to show that it meets a need that she herself created. When the whole center of Athens is narrowed by the new arrangements of the "great walk" that the mayor made for his glory, the account of the government and the media about it is that the meetings make traffic difficult. On the other hand, the 'big walk' at the University and elsewhere facilitates traffic and therefore, in order to facilitate citizens, we should limit them to the sidewalk if we do not ban them. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Finally, we are enjoying the insurmountable arrogance of the government here. I have the knife and the melon, the social movements can go to the corner, wherever it suits them. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, democracy proceeds with dialogue and claims. Citizens' conquests are moving society and ensuring for citizens a better present, but also a future. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you've used the Greek Police the worst. The cops are working in uniform. Respect them and don't put them on jobs that don't suit them. Since you do not have the bravery to take responsibility for whether or not to make a demonstration, take back your law. Don't transfer the weight to the cops! You have, as I said, a hundred and fifty eight Members. We and the entire Greek people enjoy the newly rich arrogance of the government. You have the knife, you have the melon, you don't ask anyone. Unfortunately, as a Greek people, we have an undemocratic bill for public gatherings and meetings, as it is, only the government of Mr. Mitsotakis could bring. Obviously, we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u75	Mr Ypsilantes, Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u76	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, now how in the Greek Parliament we connect the "big walk" with the right to assemble, how we connect the beauty of this city that wants to breathe, get out of the gray, all that you intend here to present to us in your own way, that I cannot understand. But the Greek people fully understand that and they will have you on the sidelines. The first article of the draft law is defined as its main purpose, which is no more than the actual safeguarding of the right of assembly in the public domain, in accordance with the Constitution and Article 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights, in such a way that public security is not put at serious risk and the socio-economic life of a particular region is not disturbed. At the same time, it omitted the definition of more specific procedures for exercising that right. The 1975 Constitution in Article 11 provides for the right to exercise freedom of assembly. Restrictive provisions are specific. The first that only at public outdoor meetings can there be a police force, the second that outdoor meetings can be banned by a reasoned decision of the police authority in general if there is a serious risk to public security in a certain area if there is a serious disturbance in socio-economic life, as laid down by law. The same provides for the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 12 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union corresponding to the provisions of Article 11 of the ECHR, which stipulates that everyone has the right to freedom of assembly peacefully. Article 11 of the Constitution reserves as an individual right the possibility for any Greek citizen to meet under specific conditions. It goes without saying that the rights laid down in Article 11 of the Constitution are not an end in itself, but fall within a wider framework of constitutional rights, which are in fact equal to one another. What does that mean? It means that any conflict of these rights must be resolved on the basis of the criteria which the constitutional legislature itself provides, with the predominant predominantly, for the establishment of a harmonious relationship across all constitutional rights. The tool for weighing such possible conflicts is and is explicitly provided for in Article 25 of the Constitution and is the principle of proportionality, which is further analysed in the specific requirements of suitability, necessity and a close concept of proportionality. It is clear that the unconditional exercise of the right to assemble affects unjustified other equal rights. Under risk, legal goods of exceptional importance, such as life and health may be placed under risk. If you look at Marfin's sad example, but also at other events in the past, you will see that the risk is not just theoretical, as is noted here by the Opposition. The task of all of us is to prevent such events from happening again. And an important step in this direction is this draft law. Nevertheless, it is regrettable, but also proof of SYRIZA's affinity, that what has been heard by many of his representatives in relation to the draft legislation being passed, with screams that make up for democracy and insult to public life, you say that they come to defend an absolute right that belongs to them, ignoring that with the absoluteness and the way they put it, they go further into the margin, since the overwhelming majority of the Greek people and especially the young people are convinced that our country must escape, leave the blockages and myths of a wrong left-wing culture, which has nothing to do with its real needs. There is no democracy that accepts the establishment of the vigilance due to the will of minorities. I shall use, in fact, a view expressed by Professor Nikos Alvizatos in his article in the "Kathimerini" of 5 July that he is legally unstable and politically arbitrary, so that one could call him an insurrection that the government's bill is the same and worse than the law of the junta. And it is not possible that these positions should today be expressed arbitrarily in our Parliament, which has swept through the years of the dictatorship. It is an insult to the struggles of all Greek democrats, right-wing, centre-right, left-wing, who fought to restore the democratic institutions in our country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The government does not come to discourage - and this must be made clear - the rights of Greeks to participate in peaceful demonstrations, but in the context of which other rights and freedoms are not affected. It must, however, as is done in all the advanced democratic states of the world, set a framework and protect the freedom of movement of others, property, health and life, protect these major human rights which have been provocative and arbitrary for decades, in a way of authoritarian and criminal, minority and which the few have imposed at the expense of many. By tabling legislative improvements and for the organiser - Article 3(3) of Parliament's Scientific Committee - the basis is that our country, like all the democratic countries in Europe, should have a modern law regulating the right of assembly. Mr President of the Government, Minister, a great democratic division is introduced into the country. That is why you have our support and you will have it in every effort that the government is making to improve the sense of security for our citizens, the well-being of the democratic culture and the support of the economic and social development of our people. You will find us charities in support of the Greek Police, which some, unfortunately, do not regard as guardians of legality - we have arrived here! - continuous improvement of their everyday lives and the provision of modern means for the more effective preservation of our rights and freedoms. These people are our thoughts and interest. Today's speech - and I am closing here - let me, ladies and gentlemen, dedicate it to the memory of an excellent officer of the Greek police, Vassilis Pallas, who belonged to the power of the Parliamentary Guard and who defended these freedoms to which I referred a few days ago and which we suddenly lost unjustly and unjustly a few days ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u77	I would like to ask a few colleagues, since we are trying to put order in the meetings, put order in the crowd, to go back a little bit. There are empty mountain bearings. The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u78	Fortunately, Mr President, you did not encourage colleagues to take over KINAL's seat, although I see that Mrs Vulture has already made such an intrusion. Ladies and gentlemen, I had designed a different prologue for my current position on the bill on public meetings. But an extremely unpleasant event obliges me to begin otherwise. Previously some vandalised points of Athens. In fact, they also vandalised the monument for our fellow citizens who lost their lives in Marfin, taking away from the mere plaque and the thyroid of the Hellenic Republic. I think that words are superfluous, not because a few insist that they hate the organized state, as much as they actually hate their own citizens, the memory of those who have been lost, but those who honor it and those who claim the right to move freely in the public area. In other words, they hate society itself and are challengingly despising the rules governing its organization. Let's not be afraid of words. This practice of blind violence, inexcusable empire, of insufferable destruction is called "fascism". However, such phenomena manifest themselves, unfortunately, every one in the name of the democratic right to the demonstration. I have called on this fact to highlight the importance of today's bill, which is just coming to shield the freedom of public expression of citizens, to shield it from both the danger of state arbitrariness and the threat of the usurpation of this right by some opponents of normality. I'm rushing to catch up every anti-protect. The right to assemble is completely protected. It is recognised and guaranteed by our Constitutions for a century and a half since 1864, and, indeed, by almost the same wording in all the revisions that have taken place so far. Article 11 states: "Greeks have the right to meet quietly and without weapons. Only in public outdoor meetings can the police attend. Outdoor meetings may be prohibited by a reasoned decision of the police authority, in general, if, due to the serious risk to public security, in a particular area, the disruption of socio-economic life as laid down in the law is seriously threatened.’ That is why Article 11 of our Charter must at long last be made clear and realistic in order to define more precisely, as required by the Constitution itself, the content of the term 'territorial public meeting' and to lay down rules for its unobstructed exercise, but in a way that does not prevent citizens from moving, working and living in a whole city. For as sacred as the first, as sacred as the second ones are. Ladies and gentlemen, it looks like a oxymoor - it is an issue which has also been raised by a number of New Democracy colleagues - but it is worth mentioning. The status of gatherings, marches and demonstrations is still governed by three instruments of dictatorship, Decree-Law No 794/1971 and Royal Decrees Nos 269/1972 and 168/1972. These are wooden texts, gypsies, actually, which were later inactivated. However, one has never dared to abolish them. After the restoration of democracy, the priorities of the legislature were reasonably different. In time, however, this vacuum was turned into an inseparable taboo, which some of course rushed to always cover during the beam. Because, indeed, many people have been in favour of this contradiction for years, in other words, demonstrating democratically, but under the typical force of law-making. That's how we got to the situation that you all know today. Primarily in Athens, in the capital city, but also in many urban centers, paths with few participants are a daily phenomenon. What's the result? The center was uninvited, stationary road vehicles, besieged civilians who want to go to work and customers' permission to shop shopping streets. Unique coolers, some tourists who see this unknown in their country of sight. But the protesters themselves are injured. Their demands are rarely known. Because very simply, when the city centre closes, no one sees the protester who walks on a closed road. And almost always the final result is, instead of support and acceptance, which should be the main concern of anyone who seeks to demonstrate, eventually bring the protesters together the wrath of the rest of the citizens. Everyone is losing out of this situation. Not to mention, of course, the many, unfortunately, cases where events become an alibi and move into attacks of vandalism. Ladies and gentlemen, democracy does not know well or recognise privileged groups, which will guarantee a constitutional right to the detriment of most people. Democracy recognizes us as equal citizens. Like our Constitution, it does not govern - and I stress - the rights it safeguards, but seeks to exercise them all without the power of one another. So the framework for public meetings must finally change. You, of course, forget to SYRIZA that you have sometimes invoked the existing and inactive law-enforcement framework to ban demonstrations during your term of office. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Perhaps your rapporteur can inform you that you did so with a police protest in 2017 in Exarcheia. You did it the same year with a Kurd concentration. You did so in January 2019 with a planned demonstration in the Constitution. You banned these concentrations by stepping on the ground law. This means, however, that the existing framework cannot be maintained any longer. Modern democratic Greece needs modern democratic justice and reasoning rules that guarantee the right of citizens to meet, but at the same time also ensure an equal right to freedom of movement in the public area. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For as precious as one’s freedom to protest is, the same precious is someone’s freedom to reach the hospital, his work, his home, or simply to choose to walk his children. It does not take precedence in one democracy over the rest. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the new law, of course, does not concern - and I will say again - the well-established large-scale gatherings or marches, such as the one of the Daymare and the Polytechnics School. It, however, sets out a framework for how the dozens of small demonstrations that concern our cities will be planned and held every day. In particular, the bill moves in five directions. Firstly, it clearly specifies what the wording 'public open-air meeting' means. It separates it from random concentrations that may occur in the operation of a city. On the other hand, it lays down rules for protecting normal social, economic life, as - I repeat - it requires Article 11 of the Constitution for the time or route of a road or when it will extend to a part of the road only. This introduces a basic principle, the principle of proportionality, based on the extent of a demonstration in relation to its print on everyday life. An open meeting can be held without upsetting the rhythms of the surrounding area. I have an honest question, which I would very much appreciate if you could answer. Is the protester damaged or not if the protest is limited to one of the three that he may have at his disposal? I'd like you to answer me with a yes or a no. Can't we finally find a gold incision? Because that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u79	It's happening. It shall apply from 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u80	It's not happening. And you know it very well. Otherwise, he wouldn't close down the center every three or a little bit. Otherwise, how will we find a golden intersection between the right to a meeting and the demonstration and the inalienable right that the city still has to operate? The reality is different. The reality is that small marches become abusive when they travel on mainland streets for hours, interrupting traffic throughout the city. Secondly, the very principle of proportionality also applies to dealing with a course or demonstration which is at risk of being diverted from its objective. So a concentration is not dissolved if it can be limited. And in the exceptional case where it will need to be dissolved, the competent Advocate General must agree and present himself. This is an improvement that emerged during the parliamentary debate following proposals made by the Change Movement. In any case, the dismantling of a concentration is always the last measure and will only be decided if crimes are committed there or someone's life or physical integrity is threatened. Once again, however - and this is something that the Minister also recognised in his position - the forces of order should run out of any margin for the voluntary withdrawal of the protesters and certainly not resort to disproportionate means. The bill introduces a third innovation, the organizer of a meeting, because there is no right without responsibility. The organizer will therefore be the main representative of the protesters and the main interlocutor of the special ombudsman on the part of the state. It is something that is planned, I imagine, everywhere in Europe. He will ensure that the gathering is conducted smoothly, informing its members, for example, that they do not keep any objects that could be used for the exercise of violence and, of course, also for its protection against the actions of the known - unknown, because he will bear civil responsibility for any damage that may be caused if he has not taken action to prevent them. And I would like to stress, because this article has been debated a great deal and I have carefully read the report of the Scientific Committee, that we have incorporated the provision proposed by the Scientific Committee on the issue of civil liability, such as, of course, in this article, we have incorporated better proposals put forward by the Change Movement. I must acknowledge that he has come to this debate creatively, with proposals rather than rejecting in principle and using, in my opinion, unacceptable phrases for the draft law that we are proposing. I think that these interventions as a whole have shown that Parliament has the opportunity, through the parliamentary procedure of the committees and of the plenary, to improve the legislation without, however, changing the central objective, which is the new social identity of the meetings in the cities. I protest first of all, that is, I am clearly and frankly present and of course responsible for my choices. Fourth regulation introduced by the bill is the preconditions for prohibiting a concentration planned. It is a regulation that will obviously be implemented librarianly. That is why it will be ordered by the police authority, but it will immediately be possible for this decision to be appealed to the Suspension Committee of the Council of State. And that is only if public security is threatened or if a meeting opposes the purpose of another one, which will also have been notified. Yes, this will avoid concentrations, which, we know well, often lead to conflicts. Authorities will then be able to indicate to the organizer another place. Finally, every public mass protest should be public and well known to everyone, it should be announced in time and with its place, in order to regulate traffic and transport in the region, not to interfere with the other activities around it. But it is also a law, which we are proposing today for the vote of the National Representation, which is adapted to particular circumstances. Even if a demonstration is not disclosed in time, it will not be illegal if it meets the standards laid down in the law. One of the rules in force is therefore deleted, according to which any non-notified concentration was typically and forbidden. Soon, there will also be a special website that will inform the public every day of all events or marches and similar traffic regulations in the city. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to two texts written by two extremely well-recognised and recognised constitutionalists, who are not on the New Democracy side and read two passages that I would like to see tabled in the Minutes, because I think they accurately describe the general context and the philosophy of the legislative intervention of this government. I'm starting with an article by Professor Nikos Alivizatos in a Sunday newspaper a few days ago. Obviously this article is also an indirect response to unacceptable allegations made in this Chamber, but also in the public speech as a whole. I read: "As for the claim that the government's bill is the same and worse than the law of the junta, it is legally so unstable and politically so arbitrary that it could be termed atrocity." [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] 'Because this bill, as the elementary law can easily be seen,' I imagine you have such a thing in your order, 'with little improvements, which Mr Chrysochoidis could easily bring', and I would add many of which have been incorporated into the final body of the bill, 'without altering its substance' - take note - 'it is fully harmonized', 'I repeat, it is fully harmonized, 'to the most advanced countries'. I'm not saying it, Professor Alivizatos says it. I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Chrysochoid's partner at the Ministry is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u82	Coworker, you said? So let's go to another professor, who's even left of the political spectrum, Mr. Manitakis. And let him be incapacitated like this? 'The present Government has dared to do so. It's about time. It was no longer with this prestigious prestige of the right to a meeting, which each group was protesting whenever he wanted, and as she wanted, making demands and disseminating ideas that she approved are worthy of attention to the public. And all this, ignoring completely and reluctantly preventing the simultaneous exercise of the rights of others, of third parties, such as the right to freedom of movement and of communication, of employment and of employment, of the freedom to pursue the profession." Honoured Professor Antonis Manitakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I spoke a little more thoroughly about the letter of the bill. But I must also make a more specific reference to his spirit. I have listened very carefully to the debates in this House, but also to the wider public debate. I think that if one isolates some of what happened - and I, perhaps, also what is going to happen in this Chamber in a little while - one would be left with the impression that in Greece we are living in the first decades after the Civil War or in the years immediately after the restoration of democracy, that there were still open, fresh national and social wounds, when the public protest was, indeed, the refuge - the only refuge - for the expression of citizens who were rightly devastated. But today Greece has left behind these times and I do not intend to enter into a barren dispute with those who consider them to be owned by property, not only democratic rights, but also the streets and squares of the country to be carried out willingly by marches and protests. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will simply confine myself to just one comment. Whether by ideological dissatisfaction or by a micro-political calculation they refuse to understand that the country has moved forward, it is a modern European and democratic country, with a government that respects its citizens, as I think they respect it, so I return the fierce criticism of anti-democratic regulations from those who systematically restored the institutions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let them not talk about suppression plans in the streets and squares - it has now been proved - that they were efficacious in the basement of their shops, as they were saying! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Greece already counts almost half a century of normal parliamentary life. It also has political experience and social maturity to protect and broaden constitutional freedoms, ensure rights, but also prevent their abuse. The new bill comes to serve a necessity that the reality itself has highlighted, and yes, it is the implementation of a central election commitment from the New Democracy. No one is surprised by bringing this bill. We have repeatedly talked about this issue, we have said so, we have taken political legitimacy to implement our programme and we have done so! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we must finally take the rights seriously. I will borrow the title of an emblematic book, a great American legal thinker, Ronald Dorkin, a thinker who rejected the incompatibility between freedom and equality. That is exactly what we are trying to do today, to harmonise freedom, as it is constitutionally reflected, with the equality of rights, so that once the self-determination defenders of constitutional freedoms cease to be abused at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u83	Really? Dorkin?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u84	Come on, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u85	Congratulations, there's a SYRIZA MP who knows Dorkin! Well done, Mr. Chakatte! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Don't worry, they're following more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u86	I've read him, have you read him?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Chakaloto, we're a parliament, not a tutorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u88	Are you done? In the House we are talking about the plural, Mr Chakalote. To leave him for your own internal gatherings, please, very much, when you fight each other. Here it is Parliament and you will know that there are rules! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In 1916 a young legal and later eminent constitutionalist published his second book entitled "In the field of meetings under our public law", the first Greek realities about the right to assemble. The author considered the freedom of public assembly as a key channel of democratic expression. It, however, identified - in 1911 - a fundamental imperfection on the subject, the lack of a special law on the enforcement of conditions which the 1911 constitution summarized. Because ‘unless of this regulation’ he wrote ‘in essence there are no individual freedoms.’ "Because that's appropriate," he ended up "in every liberal state." In fact, when it discusses the conditions under which a public meeting may be banned, it says 'in particular, it is not disputed that the law is entitled to prohibit meetings within public roads' - in 1911 - 'because otherwise freedom of movement in them would be hampered on the part of the social community as a whole'. I therefore call on all colleagues in the Opposition to reread the bill in the light of the words of Alexander Svolos, the valid theoretical, leading shape of the National Resistance and the Central Left, of the President of the 'Winter Government'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I say this because there is no real counter-problem, from any ideological stream, which calls into question the core of the institutional section of the government, the need to regulate, as the Constitution requires, the right to a public meeting. We can disagree on the specific provisions of the law and attempt, as we did, to make it better. However, the rejection in principle, as expressed by at least two parties of the National Representation, of the law with unacceptable characterisations, is the same violation of the Constitution, because we are doing nothing but bringing the law of law under Article 11 very much behind it, as the Constitution requires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u89	The President of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras, is immediately called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. You know, sometimes, when one is forced to read chips written by the writers, without having read the authors of these chips, it can be damaged. It could be a big deal of damage! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, I have a feeling that Mr. Mitsotakis has to read in secret, that proves us today. However, there is something different from that. It has simply chosen scholars who have nursed in the field of the Left and the Central Left and have distributed their speeches with writers, chips of persons who have historical depth and weight, to justify a bill that is inspiring people, who not only have anything to do with democratic tradition, but have been in their youths at difficult times for the place more right from the right. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes no sense to speak today invoking other words. What makes sense is to see what you are bringing, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Chrysochoidis, in the Greek Parliament today to vote and why you are bringing it. We believe that you are attempting a reactive institutional section, aimed at democracy itself, aimed at the constitutionally guaranteed right to demonstration, concentration and protest. A reactionary institutional section that no government was conceived to bring from post-Macedonia. And you are obviously attempting to haunt this decision by invoking certain situations that can often happen at extreme times, indeed have caused discomfort in society as a whole, but we need to see what the substance is. There is no doubt that many times the institutional framework which provides for the possibility of intervention - the present one - is not being observed. This does not mean, however, that we must lead to the other end, that we must circumvent the country's Constitution itself. You mentioned here - and I would like to start with this - in cases where protests by a few people, few protests, have created a traffic confuse in the city. Indeed, that is true. Go on, of course, a ride now with your nephew, Mr. Bakoyannis, who has turned the city center as if we were in Malibu, with great palm trees. Our palm trees are bleeding! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He does not respect the public space and its aesthetics, but that is also a matter of opinion. The "great walk" has become the great crygill and the great laughter for the citizens of Athens. But I'm closing the parentheses. I accept that there were indeed and there are even cases today where, not a large number of demonstrators, it creates a traffic jam. Does the current legislation not make it possible for police authorities to limit these protesters, either in a lane or even less on the sidewalk? Doesn't he? It provides, Mr Mitsotakis, and you are well aware of it, because it is a government provision of the New Democracy - Minister of Public Order Mr. Dendias, 2013, a presidential decree - and here are photos of meetings held on the sidewalk of major central arteries in the country, as police forces impose what is required by the law. Or is that not the case and you want to discover the wheel now? [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above photo, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, you told us that we, too, have introduced bans on demonstrations in cases such as when a great leader, President of the United States, if any, Russia, etc. has come. Yes, and, of course, for reasons of security - national security, I would say - which impose this. Government Act Mitsotakis, your father, presidential decree. Is there not the institutional framework, then, today? Why are you mocking the Greek people and the Greek Parliament? There is. You're trying another one here today. You are not trying to regulate things that correspond to common sense. You are attempting - I repeat - a reactionary part of the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest, demonstration, concentration, which has not been attempted by any other government than post-policy. And the question is: Why are you trying to do this now? Is it simply the meeting of the right-wing dogma Voridis - to say it just to get to know, initially - with Mr Chrysochide's new right-wing obsession? Or does this of yours - and indeed bring it down in the summer - cover some fear of developments and possible social reactions coming from autumn due to these developments? They all know that the country is entering a period of very deep recession, larger than the one we have entered into the hardest years of the memoranda. She needs a plan, she needs a vision, she needs leadership, she needs to step on her feet again. Not authoritarianism, not repression and propaganda, by the well-known state-owned media. In this context, I listened very carefully, but I think you could not explain to the Greeks and Greek women who are listening to us what your study has to offer today to bring a bill that actually leads to the banning of demonstrations, according to the beam, by the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. Whose life is improving? What problem does the restriction of the constitutional right of assembly answer? Today we are being watched by citizens who would like to hear a debate that would rotate about how their lives would be improved in 2020 and instead, they see a government trying to reinstate 1971 decrees. Mr. Mitsotakis, I have the feeling that you have decided to spend your time as a Prime Minister, not to build but to tear down. So much you liked the fall in Greek the other day. This virtual reality, one year later, when you promised "in two weeks there will be bulldozers" and you brought the photographers, the cameras, to tear down a building. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You know, I as an engineer can tell you that the fall is easy. Building is the hardest, the building is the hardest. The climax is easy, in just a few hours. Building a future based on solid foundations is the difficult one. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Not to create, not to build, but to break down and avenge. To avenge a Greek who moved forward when she left behind collectively - I also believe in your party - the post-American state of the Right and its partners. To avenge a tradition that was built against what he defends - I repeat - and your party. Because the Greece of Postpopulation is the creation of your own party. But above all to avenge the Left, your political opponent, who you know is the power of his is in the impeccable thirst of men for justice and dignity. So in the question, why are you now attempting this reactionary incision, the answer is obvious to me. Because you're afraid, Mr. Mitsotakis. Despite the millions that you share, state money, public money, to create you as sovereign and inseparable media. And really, since I remembered that, how much self-impression can you withstand, Mr. Mitsotakis? After two and a half months, you announced the list of shame that shows that you shared 20 million euros of Greek taxpayers in the back office of Maximos. You know that, getting on the ground floor, behind the stairs. That's where you shared the money, like it was your family's money!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u91	Papa's office!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u92	And you shared it to anyone you like, without criteria, without any criteria. Without any criterion of 20 million euros, Greek taxpayers' money, public money. You only gave 1% for decoying in non-pro-government media. The rest without any criterion, with the sole aim of manipulating public opinion. And you had the nerve the other day - because it is a shame - to say that you did not share it with the company to which you entrusted it. Except it's the same company that had taken over your election campaign. Aren't you embarrassed, Mr. Mitsotakis, to lie so thickly to the Greek people? Aren't you ashamed? Who do you think you're addressing? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But it came yesterday and the escapade of ridicule. Whose decision came yesterday? Mr. Marinakis. To turn this money back to you, what was, according to your assessment, in his own resources. What happened? Didn't you do her well? What happened? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, Mr. Mitsotakis, you are not alone exposed after yesterday. I repeat: you are also a prisoner. And you have no choice but to get back not only Mr Marinakis' money but all the money, the money of the Greek taxpayers, who shared without shame in the media to create your profile. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Get the program of shame back and in terms of transparency, dignity, with real criteria for workers, with the criteria for readability, with the criteria for viewing. If you want to give advertising pie, there are conditions which provide for a democratic framework, transparently, accountablely. But not that way, the Greek taxpayers' money. I imagine you'll give some answers at some point. But I am returning to the flow of speech. All of this confirms the way in which you share money state-owned and the way in which you bring to Parliament a bill, which essentially fights the constitutional right of protest, but also your attempt, days, flying mud and rehearsed food for allegedly revelations four years ago, one thing shows: Fear to be measured by reality in the economy and society, which is your creation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You know you screwed up and you're afraid. Afraid of what's coming. You fear the reaction of society, the disagreement of society, the anger of society, and that is why the answer you are about to give is repression. But today, you are trying to develop a little more, because you are attacking a constitutional right, you are establishing suffocation. You are establishing a police state, a fortress state, a crazed democracy in which lasting democratic control is overtaken. You are building a Greece in which the collective way out of the protest is criminalised. And you do it because you want the discontent never to go up, but to recycle into society, to give birth to what some call "social automation". and the anger to turn not to the perpetrator but from one victim of your policy to another, the older ones to blame the younger, the poor to blame the poorest, the unemployed to blame the workers, the private servant of EUR 600 to blame this 700 euro, the one shopkeeper to the other on the street. A society that will eat its flesh to make the power that has sealed for good every valve of doubt. And, of course, a society in which the rivalry of repression will always be broken. With the boogeyman and the law. With the police as a guarantor of normality, a normality of course, as its political leaders perceive. The police who decides who, when and when to protest and protest and, of course, has no limitation on the way in which it can intervene because, we said, normality will be judged! Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to specific points in the bill because many of them are shaking. For the compatibility of the bill with the constitutional right of the meeting it would be sufficient to refer to the communication of the plenary session of the legal associations of the country which have ruled that the central regulation of the bill - I read by word - 'has hitting the core of the right and is out of constitutional context'. It's not SYRIZA, Mr. Mitsotakis, the country's lawyers. The obligation of prior notification laid down in Article 3 in conjunction with the power of the police to dissolve concentrations for the sole reason that they were not disclosed - is Article 9 - strongly affects the core of the right to a meeting. It would be enough to refer to this announcement. I listened very carefully. I fully respect the route and the works of the scientists to whom you referred, with the exception that Mr Manitakis was Minister of the Government of Samaras and of course he has his views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u93	Scientific opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u94	He was the Minister of Government of Samaras, he was the Minister of Administrative Reform of the Samara Government, and the dormants honor the first. I also fully respect - and I say this sincerely - Mr Alivizatou's views, but I cannot help but disagree with his criticism and I cannot fail to see that he is in close cooperation with Mr Chrysochidis at the present time. That is what I honour you, Mr Chrysochoidis, but I disagree very strongly with his view. However, I would like to remind you of the view of someone who is in your seat, a little parallel, as a constitutionalist. You've been dictated, Mr. Gerapitris,... [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] It's not bad. Listen. You have completed a work, the "article interpretation" of the Constitution, among other things, you were one of the curators. So there it is mentioned and I will read it again. ‘The right to a meeting is not subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u95	Who wrote it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Gerapetritis will tell us. You have dictated it, Mr Gerapitris, and you will tell us whether you are disagreeing with what you have once dealt with. You might disagree. But let me read.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u97	Who wrote it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u98	Don't worry. Let me read. Objections are being raised in this Chamber, don't worry. It says, therefore, in a project called the "Article interpretation" of the Constitution, which, among other things, has been curated by your good constitutionalist and Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, in terms of the following: "The right to a meeting is not subject to authorisation, announcement or preventive control by the police, as was done in abnormal times before". And my question is what exactly are you doing, are you turning us into abnormal times, is that what you're doing, like before? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would remind you that no Greek constitution has, since 1864, guaranteed for the first time the right to a meeting, imposed an obligation to notify the mergers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u99	Will you testify to it in the Minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Mitsotakis, don't do this to me again, crucify your hands, and say "I'm waiting, I'm waiting", because when you did this last time, you got screwed. Don't do that. I'll tell you everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u101	Now testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u102	Yeah, yeah, you won't tell me. Calm down, Mr. Mitsotakis. I understand, you're in a worry. After what happened yesterday, you have a concern, it's not an easy thing for your sponsor to return you 1.5 million, it's not easy at all. You have a concern. Here's the criticism. Listen to the review! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] I would remind you, therefore, that no Greek constitution since 1864, which was for the first time the right to meet, has imposed no obligation to notify the mergers. That's all the pseudonyms did. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With the phrase - I read myself to the cleanser - 'Public meetings must be duly notified to the police forty-eight hours prior to their performance'. That is what they said, 'forty-eight hours'. I don't know if you guys put that on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u103	Is that what we say today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u104	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u105	This clause was not only repeated in 1975, but was consciously deleted from the 1975 Constitution, the seal of which Constantine Karamanlis has. We're admitting it. But he was consciously erased. So you are building a new reason for banning concentrations, which is not provided for in our Constitution and which cannot be added by law, since it is not provided for in our Constitution. But there's worse in Article 8 of the bill. He says "Police can impose restrictions on a concentration". What are the ‘restrictions’? They are tough, compelling, binding orders, that is the police's'restrictions'. Article 9 says that if the gathering fails to comply with the suggestions, then the police can dismantle it. So a new reason for dismantling, when the concentration is not in line with the police suggestions, even if this concentration, or public security, threatens neither societal, socio-economic life, is disturbing. But maybe the most impressive in the bill is not what it says, but it's what it's missing. And one, in particular, I would say that it is deafening. There is no provision that limits the police at all. It is impressive that, while you did not initially hesitate to criminalize even the simple involvement of citizens in a demonstration, which you have gathered in good time, of course, after the catastrophic outcry, you did not, however, provide for any prohibition, any obligation, any responsibility for the police. Even Article 6, which falsifiedly signs "Obligations of the police", listen to what he says. ‘Police shall take all necessary measures, within the framework of its competences, in accordance with existing legislation’. So even this article gives the police power, not restrictions. So what's the message you're giving to security bodies to the police? The message is clear and it's a nightmare message. It is the message "The state is you", as Constantine Mitsotakis once said. So here you imply that the state is you, get free, don't worry, no one's going to ask you for responsibility. And that is not something that can happen in a democratic state, which requires accountability, which requires responsibility, democratic accountability by the Security Councils. This message, of course, has given us, without an institutional framework, a year now, Mr Chrysochidis. Just in this message he has given, and in institutional terms, all the repression policy is being captured, all that we have seen in the country a year now. The invasion of the Indar house, the intervention in cinemas to coordinate young people who saw the film "Joker", the departure of the MATs on the islands, the unprovoked wood on the streets, the unprovoked violence in immigrants, refugees, young people and so many others we have seen. The last point, however, and perhaps the most dangerous point of the bill, which I would like to highlight, is this inconceivable for a democratic society under Article 13. Each gathering - it says - must designate a particular person as an organiser - to stress the "a particular person" - who - be careful - will have full and personal responsibility to compensate for the damages that might arise during the concentration. Think now. So he wants to organize a demonstration by the association of people with disabilities, our people with disabilities, in front of the House, as many times they have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u106	The disabled don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, yeah, but even they'll pay. That's what I want to tell you. Listen to me. So it wants to organise a protest and another protest or some provocator - tens of times we've seen it happen in our day, unfortunately, but it's happening - and it's flying a molotov bomb and then burning a car. So the disabled people's association has declared the responsible one. Who's gonna pay for the damage? The obvious purpose of this arrangement, therefore, is to deter all protests, force organisations, force collectives and groups to self-restrict, self-determination, abandon the idea of organising a protest gathering. That is the aim of your bill, and that is deeply undemocratic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] From wherever this bill is caught, I would say that it is a disgrace to every democratic citizen. But I can't do the report. It is more shameful to pass this bill than democratic forces. It is more shameful for you to vote for, Mrs. Gennamas, this bill. All right, the Greek solution. All right, Mr. Velopoulos. Okay. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Some may have envyd your route, Mr. Chrysochide, from these benches to the left of Parliament and to the centre, to the right chairs of Parliament, to envy that you were sitting next to those who were sitting next to you, along with Mr. Mitsotakis and many right-wing ministers on Samaras, on the governing seats of a party that left the country unprotected in 2009, with a deficit of 15%, and led it to bankruptcy and the memorials. That's where she led her. On these benches you sat down and later on the benches that plunged the country into deep recession and the authoritarianism of Mr Samara's memorials. Mr Mitsotakis told you yesterday and I think that you were right, Mr Mitsotakis, that you were absolutely right that you were together. But it is a question of what you are looking at for the future, and if the future can be for the democratic area, you can be back where Mr Chrysochidis is now. Some of the government's seats may be missing, it's human. But they must not forget which roots and tradition they represent. What historical tradition they represent. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because with such decisions they are removed, they come into a break with this tradition. It is everyone's right, but it is not to be sad because the democratic party in this place has continued and will continue with SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As for the completely pretext, if not hypocritical, attempted to involve the judicial and public prosecutors in this anti-democratic complaint, your answer was given by the Association of Prosecutors of Greece. As to the fire of the alleged judicial guarantees, which KINAAL celebrated as a great success in the desperate attempt to justify unjustified efforts. Because not only are practically inapplicable but also unconstitutional the association of judicial officers in a complex administrative action of banning demonstrations. And, of course, one final comment is that very appropriately, I would say, you also recommend the supposed and also falsified Violence Fighting Directorate, whose main purpose is, as you unregulatedly agree, to press the radicalisation of Greek society. Don't get worse, I'd say. It reminds me of the patient who urgently needs'surgery', to press not communism but the radicalisation of Greek society. What exactly are you going to do? Who are your enemies? Are your enemies as much as those who dream of another, a better society? Those who claim the radical democratisation of the state and society, the elimination of discrimination and inequalities? Those who claim a better tomorrow, exercising their collective and democratic freedoms? Are these your enemies? And it's not enough to make them silence, you want to preach them illegally, you want to hit them, because whatever radical seems to cause you intolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u108	Cheers, Mr. Tsipras!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u109	And your health, be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u110	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Mitsotakis, there's a heavy historical load behind everything you're trying to do. You are the party that has been putting particular emphasis on the recent decade against post-multipleism. For you, Postpopulation is perhaps the cause of all the problems, an orgy of waste, colonies, anarchy, pheasantness. You have invested in this, you have worked hard together with your escorts to create a picture, to convert marginal extreme right stereotypes into dominant narrative, and this appeared in your own party. Your party today has legalised and includes as leaders some repentant former members of the youth of the dictator Papadopoulos, deniers of the dead of the Polytechnic. So it was inevitable as much as trying to build your modest profile that one day we would reach today's debate, in which of course your historical position would be revealed. Because today I believe you do not lose the ideological hegemony of the Left, but you are attempting to dismantle a part of the democratic tradition of the country and even of your own party, the first post-government Constitution on governance of Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Mitsotakis, the right you represent used to do politics many times with slandering against political opponents, sometimes against history itself. What you are trying to rinse out today, I think, is the democratic conquest of a valuable historical period, of the period of post-population, because post-population, as many times as we feel it has brought difficulties, often we are fighting against it, but it has given us the contract for the smoothest democratic period in our country. I, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen, am relatively younger - not the younger in this Chamber, of course, but the younger - because I was born the year of the transition to democracy. You are a little older, but perhaps our performances are quite different. I am one of the first generations of Greeks who did not know the persecution, authoritarianism, coups, interventions of the palace in normal political function, I am one of the lucky Greeks I would say that we were born and grew up without pulling out what the previous ones of us were, whether they were left-wing communists or socialists or central or democrats, from the whole political spectrum. My generation and those that followed, we grew up in a Greece that was laying the foundations of a newly-citizen democracy, a Greece that has progressively culminated in its Constitution, which established a modern family law, which protected labour and trade union rights, which established public and free compulsory education, which was established by the National Health System and much more. These are for us the contract of post-Culture, gentlemen of the New Democracy, these are the contract of Greece that forty-five years, despite the difficulties that continue on the path of democratic normality, for the first time in this long period in the two hundred years of the modern Greek state. And this contract wasn't written on paper only. This contract was also written on the road. This contract was written in racing. It was written by the soul and heart of each Greek woman and every Greek who wanted a better, fairer future for their children. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This contract was written by the people who endured the sufferings of a lifetime to keep the light of democracy on, even in the darkest times, written by the youngsters of the anti-Digital War, from the generation of political change in '81 to '90 and '91 and the student struggles, the student movements and '97, from the students of Article 16, from Alexis Gregopoulou to the squares of the antimony struggle. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All of them protected and protected the post-multiple contract, when you in all of them were on the other side, alone, overthrown by history and popular feeling. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And today alone, with the sole discord of those who decided to go from change to mutation, but alone, because the democratic world, to know it, does not share you. You are going today to end with the root of the evil, the root of the question, but the root of the democracy and the constitutional right of every citizen to control his own government and to claim a better life you cannot take it out, control the government not every four years that he is voting for, but every day, because that is a democracy. It is a key moment when you choose to attack democracy in such a way, because those who are afraid of are those who believed you a year ago, those who see the country going through a new phase without memorials, recession and austerity saw an alternative to you, because that is democracy in the end - and the rotation of the parties. But in the hope, then, that the two parties will now clash on a new basis, on the basis of which one of the two will guarantee a smooth development path for the country and for society over the next decade. This prospect, however, begins to exalt, the fuel of misleading starts to be dangerously deprived, grateful subjects prove to be restless citizens. And where you thought they would see the savior forever, they gradually begin to see the Prime Minister of the greatest recession the Greek economy has recorded in the post-war period. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And this world starts to worry, because they don't see you dealing with the problems of their daily lives, they're dealing with figurines, they're dealing with your stubborn portrait, the spiral of your political opponents, and today with the reduction of the Constitution itself. And it understands that this world that believed you that the so-called insolent leader has finally created a paper hegemony and begins to seek more traditional shelters than that of the image, the refuge of the glop and the shield! [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You are not the first Prime Minister to resort to this method, but you are the first to do so soon and with such cynicism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you are going to vote today on this piece of legislation, I will not tell you that you will be judged by history, I am sure that many of you are not interested in it, I will tell you that you have already been judged, because you have attempted to unleash a small stone from the foundation of the democratic, constitutional homeland. But you are not so strong or so capable of doing so at the end, because the democratic foundations of this country are registered in the Constitution, but above all they are recorded in the conscience of every citizen of this country. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These are the foundations on which each generation put its own stone in order for Greece to become a modern democratic European country with a people that always found an answer. And he found an answer where? In democracy. And that will do again. Once again, then, the answer will be the same, it will be democracy. And bills like today will, I believe, find the place they deserve in the trash can of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u112	The Prime Minister will make use of his dentistry after all the political leaders speak. In the meantime, however, Mr Gerapetritis has asked for his name and signature on staff for a few minutes. Here, Mr. Gerapitris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. I've been honored again by the Chief of Officer's Opposition. It will allow me, as it appears in his free time, to send him a package of what I've written in the past. I'm afraid it'll take him a few weeks, it's about twenty thousand pages. Now I see you're reading texts I haven't written. Hot congratulations, good for your ambition, Mr President! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It does not cease to surprise me in this Chamber how little is actually lacking but a critical mass of political openness and openness, Mr President. First of all, everyone knows from an elementary academic class - you have nursed in university headquarters - what a writer means and what a publisher means, Mr President. I guess you know it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsakalots, who is here, has gathered three volumes. Isn't that right, Mr. Chakalote?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u114	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u115	Do you think he agrees with everything written by other academics?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u116	I didn't say anything. If you disagree, I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u117	The misunderstanding, Mr President, which you have brought to Parliament, is, I think, unique in political times. So let me read to you what the difference is, what we say in our introduction. The self-evident thing is, we don't say anything great. Each writer has his own understanding of the political philosophy of the Constitution and its principles, which is not only fully respected as an expression of academic freedom and freeness, but also reflects the pluralism of theories and methods in the approximation of constitutional law. What did you want, Mr President, for extradition censorship? Is that what you asked? Warm congratulations! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I should like to say to you, therefore, because I understand that you have not studied, but you have your own staff who are highly thoughtful - that Article 106 of the Constitution, in the 'Reportedly interpretation', the analysis by Mr. Akritas Kaidazis, the former Secretary-General of your Government, has written it in detail on state intervention. Please come and tell me that I am both in favour of state intervention and nationalization. Let us have a good time in this Chamber, Mr President. If, however, your view is that we must impose publishing totalitarianism and impose on the authors what they will write, I am very sorry, I will not! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It's a second question, because as far as I can tell, you didn't file anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u118	We've already testified!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u119	The author has a name, she is Ms. Anna Chiftsoglu, an excellent colleague, Ph.D. of the Constitutional Law. He's got a name. You obviously did not mention it to confuse that author and curator is the same. It has a name, however, to mention it, to give a point to the new scientific generation. But it would be nicer to render exactly what Mrs Chiftsoglu has said and what she has written. So you'll have the patience for a minute to hear exactly what he's written and not what you wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u120	Let's read what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u121	She writes, therefore, Mrs Chiftsoglu: “Article 11 introduces a system of preventive banning a meeting. Thus, the right to a meeting may generally be limited if there is a serious risk and especially if a serious disturbance in socio-economic life is threatened.’; And where does Mrs Chiftsoglu end?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u122	What Mr. Tsipras read is inaccurate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u123	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u124	It's obvious that the inertia the Greek showed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u125	Let's read what he's saying. Why don't you read it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u126	You'll be patient, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u127	Be patient, but what he says is inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u128	The inertia shown by the Greek legislator on the subject of public meetings is evident. It is therefore appropriate to take a direct legislative initiative at the level of common legislation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The new Implementing Law will reform the specific issues of limiting the right to a meeting, limiting the right, while establishing a specific procedure for interim measures against police decisions prohibiting or dismantling public meetings. Just what we are doing today with our legislative intervention, Mr Tsipras. And close...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u129	Listen, listen. He speaks on staff. It has to be completed, so we can move on. Don't interrupt. He was given opinions that did not belong to him. It's the definition of personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u130	For quite a different text, the floor was given.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u131	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u132	I am tabling the text of Mrs Chiftsoglou's own, rather than the fragments you mentioned. Sixty writers wrote on two thousand pages. You've still got a job to do! [[At this point, the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetritis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I conclude by concluding that the most shocking of all, Mr President, is how easily you use terms and designations. Today, you have taken a step further forward. Today, with one word you have renounced an important part of the history of the Left. You have renounced his Alvizat by his absenteeism, his Manitakis. You know what you forgot? The renunciation of those for whom you did not speak, who had set up parallel structures of power. Let's do this once as a renouncement when we're in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u134	Here you go, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u135	Mr Gerapititi, you have used six and a half minutes at very high intensity to answer something that you could have answered in half a minute. Not a minute, 15 seconds. I asked you whether in this text of the author, in which you were a curator, not a writer, you agree with the wording that the right to a meeting is not subject to authorisation from the police, as was done in abnormal times...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u136	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u137	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u138	However, in six and a half minutes, in reply to me once again, perhaps because the Prime Minister has not made the arguments available, you tried to legitimize the author - and you did well - but you did not answer, telling me that "I disagree with this view of the work I have done." So simple. You could answer me that you disagree, Mr. Gerapititi. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis in his free time reads Dorkin. I'll read Gerapitri. We're not all lucky in this world. Some people are luckier. I'll be less lucky. But the essence, Mr. Gerapetritis, is that because you once passed through the democratic space, but now you're on the right-hand seat...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u139	Why aren't we democrats?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u140	You're a democrat and we're fascists?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u141	...you are not a judge or you have the right to judge who the Left will honor and whom the Left will criticise, whether the Left will criticise people who crossed the Left and now is across the street or not. You are now on the benches of the party, which attempts to make the biggest institutional diversion in terms of democratic right to assembly and demonstration, you will not be doing to us, Mr Gerapititi. You should understand it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u142	Dorkin's not alive! So the floor is called on to take Mrs Gennimata, President of the KINAL Parliamentary Group. I would ask the Members who want to leave, to do so quickly. Mrs. Gennamas, thank you for your patience. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. I can only begin by restoring the truth. Because what all Greece knows seems to be some people here trying to falsify it with lies. It is therefore known that the Social Convention of Postmulsion, which changed Greece, was written by PASOK, Andreas Papandreou and the democratic party with which Mr Tsipras had nothing to do with it, not just had anything to do with it, but fought it rabies. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] In fact, when he fought her rabies, she was on the same side as the New Democracy. Together they did this, and then they qualified together the paratrooper and the outlawing circuit, which came from the deepest right. So, if something disgraceful today, it is a shame to try to sabotage the history of another place, when, in fact, it has fought it rampantly over the past few years, even today. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I'll tell you, Mr. Tsipras, what a shame it is. Because you don't have the political and moral stature to "hand my finger". Shame on you, then, is to run by choice with the extreme right and then incorporate it and adopt both its logic and its practices. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] It is not a shame to take part in a government of national salvation to prevent your country from going bankrupt after two returning elections. For our resignation has set us "platform", to keep this place standing, so that the Greek people do not live its unscrupulous bankruptcy and its consequences. And that's why we put "platform" and in the summer of 2015 when you "seaped it" and we were in danger of being out of the Eurozone. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Do you want me to go on with what's embarrassing? It is shameful that you pass the "go" into the neck of the Greek people, that you level the middle class and declare the so-called left. I want to tell you what a disgrace is? It is shameful to give pawn lenders for ninety years archaeological sites, monuments, NATURA areas. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] No Prime Minister has dared in the years of the crisis to be subjected to the partners and lenders, what you personally did, with your signature. Do you want me to go on with what's embarrassing? It's a shame to submit, to be the good boy, because they'll hit your back and make retreat to national issues. Of course, it is a disgrace, Mr Tsipras, to cover the'magasies', the 'parallelage', the offense, the bugs, the parastate, the surveillance, the humiliation. Why? Why did you know them and either guide them or you didn't have the strength and the strength to face them, stop them. And with them alone, you have put a great mark on the Left, which will take many years to get out of this space. Do you want me to go on with shame, Mr. Tsipras? It is shameful for ten years to give the responsibilities of the Government of New Democracy and of Mr Karamanlis for derailing the Greek economy. And you remembered now that you feel you no longer need him. That's the situation. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Do you want me to go on with what's embarrassing? It is shameful today that you are in this situation, instead of making self-criticism, instead of going into excruciating, instead of talking about all of this, coming here and moving to us the finger, saying in the end, but in the end, that it would be better not to have been here in this Movement of Change to make changes to Mr. Mitsotakis' law, because you might also have some reason to exist after all. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Because you don't really care what citizens' rights will be done. Because here we are talking about a bill on rights and the implications of this law, if it went as it came, they would be visible tomorrow. But you don't care. You are not interested in the essence of politics. You don't care if Greek citizens have rights to go out to protest. You don't care where this place goes. That is what you have demonstrated all these years and while you have ruled with your attitude to the opposition and before and now. I'm really sorry, because within this space there are people who are really visionaries of the Left and you've pissed them off. You broke their dream and vision, because they thought they'd come to power to implement what they believed and for which they struggled and finally lived the shops and battling them. Everything about power and its benefits. Your only concern is to convince you here today that you will somehow return to power, to continue to have power and benefit from the benefits of power, as you understand it. But the Greek people see us and judge us all. The future is here. The future is here and is on the democratic side, Mr. Tsipras. Because we need the place! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We need the place, strong, with an alternative, impediment to the maintenance that we have been living in the last year, but also to the maintenance that we have been living in your days, along with populism. And now I come to the draft law we are discussing. Listen, Mr. Mitsotakis. Your choice to bring to this juncture this bill on marches, meetings, demonstrations is not innocent at all. It comes as a cherry on your conservative policy cake. What did you do? You tried to prevent the reactions that are escalating and will get worse from autumn and you know it. So you wanted to prevent the mobilizations that we'll have in front of us. Because the reaction is growing every day in the face of your obsession with working rights, against your logic of 'half a wage, half a job', against unpaid pensions, against unemployment and, of course, against those who are increasing and increasing threateningly. So you wanted to ban demonstrations. That's what you're doing with the abortion you brought us. You wanted the center open, other roadblocks on the roads. Where to really start. You have brought provisions of shame, undemocratic and dangerous provisions from the time of deep right, hurricane about rights. We, the Change Movement, have stood in the way of your plans! We rewrited the bill from the beginning! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] This bill we're talking about right now isn't the bill you brought in. We have therefore saved our democracy from a new wound. We have secured rights with institutional guarantees. We have set this progressive impediment that the place needs to deal with your logic "law and order". The easy solution would be to get us out of the House, to do the free guys, but we decided not to do you a favor. We don't fall into the traps you set up, Mr. Mitsotakis. And, of course, we did not say a blind 'no', like others, which would lead to the resolution of the anti-democratic bill as it was, because that was a very great visible risk. In our identity, there are no bans on rights. It's unnegotiable! That's why we have this attitude, all these days! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] For many years now, ladies and gentlemen, our resignation has recognised the need to introduce rules in the organisation of demonstrations. Several attempts began in 2001, in 2011, which, for various reasons, did not go ahead. What's clear? It is clear that we need a framework that does not circumvent the right of citizens, trade unions and movements to protest, to claim their demands. We need a framework, that is, which will protect the right, at the same time protect traffic, at the same time protect the property of Greek citizens. From what? From immunity, from chaos and arbitrary and authoritarianism. This is the framework that we are trying to shape with the interventions that we have done all these days. Why? Because that bill you brought didn't have any of it. He was just promoting authoritarianism. It did not provide any institutional guarantee for each Greek and every Greek woman to express their protest freely and democratically. In the face of the risk that it will be voted on as it is and implemented, we have made a very conscious choice. Instead of an easy 'no' to give you virtually a white check, such as Mr. Tsipras and others in this Chamber, we decided to stand up to the circumstances. Let's remind everyone that this party has history, it has democratic morality, it has proposals! It draws its strength from the patriotic duty, the Constitution and the struggles of the Greek people! Yes, we draw our strength from all of this history, the route and the struggles in the Cultivation. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken the initiative and put forward a number of very specific proposals and put too much pressure on both the committee and within Parliament, but also on the public debate. We have changed the anti-democratic bill radically. We actually wrote it with a democratic ink! We brought it into the constitutional framework and finally saved the right to meet and protest. We have removed from you and from Mr. Tsipras the possibility of again polarising the climate, of dividing Greek society. Because it's clear you've chosen the conflict. That is why the well-known trolls have taken care of us all these days, because we have taken them away from them the joy of the conflict on the one hand, on the other hand, the monopolis of social sensitivity, who have been so self-sufficient in the past few years, without understanding the changes, first of all for themselves. And, finally, in this Chamber, two logics were actually opposed. There was no third logic. The third was to let the way it is, to have a roll, even a second and a third. So, on the one hand, was the concept of the New Democracy, which he says? We don't have to. We, with the majority of us, will go through what we want and with the livanisers the exact payment we will convince that it is a very large reform. That was the one perception. On the other hand, it was the perception of the Movement of Change, which made it clear that bisexual perceptions are dangerous to democracy and will not pass through. And finally, from this battle, citizens and democracy won! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We supported the key points of the Scientific Committee's proposal, which had been set up in the past at the initiative of the then Mayor of Athens, Mr Kamine, in 2012. And I'm saying the basics, because it's obviously been many years since then, and all things need to be updated and adapted to the new data. So we basically supported the principle of regulation of rules in relation to the demonstrations and put our own'red lines'. But come and see what the New Democracy wanted and what we, in the end, went through, because it is of great value to talk about concrete results. No air words. We danced with them. Firstly, instead of banning the demonstration by a decision of the competent police authority, with the sole view of the mayors, we demanded, as a necessary condition, and in agreement with a decision by a representative of the judicial authority, that is to say, that the PASOK had done in the 1975 constitutional review, with the emblematic nature of Professor Georgios - Alexandros Magakis, fearing a policeman right-wing state at that time. To those who have a different view or think that our current attitude is not based on our values and history, I would remind you that the PASOK had submitted a draft Constitution at the time, trying to improve the regulation of meetings. And then he predicted the intervention of the prosecutor on the matter of the ban. So, from our own proposal, the President's assent is now provided for in the first instance. Secondly, instead of the dissolution of a meeting being decided unilaterally by the police, we have certainly asked that the prosecutor's approval should be present and that it be required, not just to be informed by the chief police force, as provided for in the original bill. Therefore, from our proposal, the assent of the Advocate-General present at the Court was added. Thirdly, we have asked for the withdrawal here and now of the proprietary offence that provided for imprisonment for anyone who is taking part in a banned demonstration or who is not leaving when a meeting is legally dissolving. So from our own proposal - and I am sorry if I bore you, but the list is enough - these provisions are deleted. Fourth, spontaneous meeting: In the original bill, spontaneous meetings were normally banned and, in order to be permitted, a specific decision was necessary. Therefore, on our own proposal, an spontaneous meeting is allowed and can only exceptionally be prohibited if public security is threatened and after the competent Advocate General has been informed. Because in a reality where too many demands and claims are now being organised, ladies and gentlemen, through the Internet and thousands of citizens are spontaneously mobilised, it would be completely out of place and time for the state to keep the ban ax. In particular, the issue of spontaneous mobilisation and demonstrations is an issue that the new generation of our country cares about, seeing what happens to the rest of the world, how rights and freedoms are being violated and how what happens abroad in the shadow of the pandemic, in the rest of the world, can one day knock on our own door. They therefore care for young people to be able to do so, and we must guarantee them. And that's what the Change Movement did with his intervention: he assured it! At the last meeting in the relevant committee of Parliament, the government accepted - as I described - a very large number of the demands and suggestions of the Change Movement. Most important of all, the law now regulates and protects the right to the protest, with the institutional guarantees that we have imposed and supported. I now come to the critical issue of the organization's civil responsibility. The Change Movement calls for the provision of civil responsibility for the organizers of the demonstration to prove what? They are required to prove that they themselves had taken the necessary protective measures. A moment ago our group tabled an amendment aimed at abolishing this unjustified regulation. But I would like to say a few words about that, because I consider it extremely important. Prominent constitutionalists, former judges, but also the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, argue that the individual responsibility of each participant in a demonstration conflicts with the collective responsibility that the organiser may have, that is, that, practically, cannot be blamed for the violation of one who is involved in the process. In any case, Mr Mitsotakis, you cannot ignore not only what the constitutionalists and the committee of Parliament say, but you cannot ignore the Council of Europe either, in particular, now that our country is taking over the Presidency. The country will be exposed irreversibly if you do not change this provision, because the Venice Commission explicitly states in the Council of Europe 'the guidelines for freedom of peaceful assembly' that organisers should not be held responsible for omission of their duties, in cases where damage or violent events are caused by participants in the meeting or by spectators acting independently. I would therefore like it to be clear that we will vote against this article and if you do not change it, we will ask for a roll-call vote for everyone to take their responsibility. Until the last minute we are seeking to improve the provisions of the draft law with the amendment we have tabled. State the explicit exception for parliamentary parties and third-level trade unions since the implementation of the bill. I would like to point out to you, Prime Minister, that this is a regulation that has been in force since 2013. And, of course, you have a responsibility for a year now that you have not implemented it. Both parties from the Constitution itself and the largest private and public trade unions - GSEE and ADEDY - have an inalienable right and duty to express their action freely and without the need for notifications. It's a part of our democracy. Finally, we ask that you withdraw another restriction, that of the twenty-fourth time limit for the judicial authority to agree to the ban. Prime Minister, in case the judge agrees with the curfew, he must do so in writing. And if he doesn't, the protest will have to take place properly. It is clear that our final attitude to every article in this bill, but also to the whole of it, will be assessed by the final arrangements until the end of this debate. I hope there are clear improvements in critical matters. Ladies and gentlemen, without the Change Movement the bill would go through with its original authoritarian form at the expense of the rights and freedoms of citizens. In simple terms, that would happen. And that's our role. We are not a government to make the bill that we would like. But with the powers that the Greek people gave us, we are fighting to defend their rights and freedoms and not to have a police state. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We have achieved these strong, institutional guarantees against state and police repression. Of course, I would like to say that with this attitude we are blocking a new round of violent conflicts in the polypathic centre of Athens, which has suffered a great deal in recent years. Because you can be certain that with the conflict that they have chosen government and Census there we will be led. That is where we would probably be driving, to be precise, if we did not make sure that these institutional guarantees are available today. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] That's why they're attacking us. This is SYRIZA. Of course, I'm going to say it's the ones who moved the MATs against the retired. They're the ones who beat up their former comrades. They are the ones who chased those who were mobilized for the auctions and the revelations that came to light. I've been through it many times. I will repeat this: public life is being poisoned. And, of course, the credibility of Officer Response is crumbling, which has now reached nadir. And that Mr. Mitsotakis thinks he's serving him, because he thinks he's going to be undisturbed to continue his conservative work. But today we have rewritten the unwritten bill which, as I said, would cause great social conflicts and problems. We are here to be an impediment to maintenance and populism, a shield in democracy and a support for the Greek society in these difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u144	Mr Tsipras has asked for the floor for a moment. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. I can only answer Mrs Gennamas, not in the same tone and style, but in the political context of what she said about SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you know about life and politics there are some top moments that anyone is called upon to make top strategic decisions, whether they realize it or not. And you did this while I watch you in your political career as Head of the Change Movement twice. And today is a third. These are strategic decisions. The first strategic and critical decision for you was when the SYRIZA government at the time brought in this Chamber the simple analogue. And you chose, despite the fact that you represent a party that has the sizes - I mean the resonance of the Greek society - which has and could play a critical regulator, in a political context, where the mere analogue will give an equal share of vote, a crucial regulatory role, beyond all reasonableness, beyond and outside the logic of your party's close interest, but also of your ideological and political references, to say 'no' and support then, to give a safety pillow and help Mr.Mitsotakis' Right. Second crucial strategic choice for you, and for your party it was your choice to go against the Prespecies Agreement. Although I know - I cannot, of course, be on your own - you were alone in the leadership of the party and in the top body that you disagreed with the views of your comrades at the time when, in connection with the history, the path, the progressive ideas, the attitude and position of the European Socialists, you defended a positive agreement for the country that Mr Mitsotakis has today. Of course, it was a crucial strategic choice, to go against the ideas of your party - the progressive party, rather than yours alone - and to support the right and, indeed, the extreme populist version of the right. And the third strategic choice, Mrs. Gennamas, is now. For not only do you decide to vote on the bill by Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis, a bill which is in contradiction with the democratic sensitivities of the area of democratic and progressive, which is shrinking constitutional freedoms. Not only for this reason, but because at a difficult time for Mr Mitsotakis and the Government - and I refer to developments in the economy, the very great recession, I refer to the developments that the recession brings to society itself, I refer to what is coming out of the publicity in relation to the attempt to manipulate the media with this famous list of Petsa, although it is a list of Mitsotakis - you choose not only to make Mr Mitsotakis' lawyer but also to exaggerate to the arguments of the government and the right and to speak here with a very heavy language for para-state and for conflict. We leave these words because I want to speak politically and tell you this: Your choice to oppose the SYRIZA government over the last four years was a reasonable choice. You were a opposition party. It's just that you've been oppositioning the government. Your choice today to opposition to SYRIZA again when the government is the right of Mr Mitsotakis is an absurd self-destructive choice for you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If you want, Mrs. Gennamas, to support the government, of course, the road is open. The only problem for you might be that perhaps Mr Mitsotakis will not need you so much. Because it is already glorifying you and taking away the executives who are plundering and have as a vision and aim to rule at some point and to be reunited at the headquarters of his government. All I'm going to tell you is that you're sitting here and his choices in this life and all worthy of his choices and fate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u146	Evidently Mrs. Gennamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Listen, Mr. Tsipras. I have to admit I'm not dealing with SYRIZA. I am dealing with the works and the days of this conservative government, because it needs effective opposition to the place, since the Civic Opposition is in this situation and it is obvious that it is unable to play its institutional role. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] But I have a duty, at the same time as my work towards the government to answer when these lies are heard and when you are trying to insult me personally, because you cannot do anything else political. So let me tell you about the simple analogy and the support to Mr Mitsotakis and all that you mentioned before. Except that I have no wish to support a conservative government. He doesn't need my support, Mr. Tsipras. You brought him a ride on the horse! Such a climate has been created for you to leave the government of this country, which you have relieved New Democracy of all responsibilities for the governance of the place, for the crisis and for the memorials and have brought them as a white dove to imagine that it is the salvation of the country after what he lived with SYRIZA. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And I hear people still saying: "Think about what would happen if we had the pandemic and SYRIZA ruled." That is why I am telling you about the stigma you have brought to this country against the Left. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You want me to tell you about the simple analogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u148	Please be quiet. Mrs Maij-Weggen, please address the Bureau. I feel alone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u149	Yes, Mr. President. If you want me to deal with it, Mr President, and with the Bureau, I would like to tell you that, when we ask for staff, you must always give us the floor and not selectively. But I'm coming back to Mr. Tsipras. So listen, Mr Tsipras, for the simple analogue. After you have ruled with the bonus, because that is what you wanted, and with your favorite co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos - brother, not just co-pilot - when you thought that favoured your micro-party benefits, you have brought the simple analogue, while at the same time stating with this well-known style of determination that you do not intend to cooperate with any of the parties of the Greek Parliament. So you brought a law to lead the country into law. The country, therefore, after so many years of crisis and efforts, does not need powerlessness. He needs real progressive governments. And since you told me to address the Bureau, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u150	It is under the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u151	Yeah, yeah. Under the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, the country needs a strong progressive government at the place with a real alternative, because that is what it needs now. It's going to be a circle for New Democracy. Everything makes circles, as we have seen, and the future is ahead and it's here. On national issues and the Prespes, we are a patriotic party. It does not seem that Mr Tsipras is well aware of all the characteristics of the democratic party. He's on the surface, and he's criticizing us. So we have a tradition of patrioticism, and in no case would we agree to surrender all the weapons that Andreas Papandreou had secured for the Greek people on this issue in all the previous years, because that is simply what Mr Tsipras has done with his policy of turning back to the pressures of lenders! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] That is why it has systematically avoided the meeting of the Council of Political Heads so that there are no commitments and with a loose hand being able to make concessions. I stress this because it is extremely dangerous to happen to us now and in the future. For a long time now, I have been beating the risk bell for the fact that a national line and a stiff internal front have to be formed again, the current Prime Minister denies the convening of the Council of Civil Liberties, because he obviously also wants to have his hands broken. So I repeat that no one has a white check, at least by us, to manage our national issues. And I close, because we are a party before us, and I personally, in addition to our ideas and our values and values, want to tell you this: In recent times, political translations have also been made by the SYRIZA Government and by the New Democracy Government, it seems that they are trying to establish themselves as the new political reality in the country. I, therefore, also have a anaphylaxis with regularity because I consider it very conservative, I would like to tell you that in the Change Movement our revolution is the return of morality to politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u152	The party's parliamentary group President Kyriakos Velopoulos is called on in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say to Mr Tsipras, listening to him as if you were not ruling, Mr Tsipras, you are, as if you were never ruling. Well, because neither New Democracy nor KINAL nor SYRIZA ruled, if anyone listened to your inner-party problems you had a moment ago, he would understand why the world is pessimistic, like you don't respect the other political leaders. I am patient for hours to listen to everyone, Mrs. Gennimata and Mr. Tsipras come in once a month, quarrel on their own central left and disappear. I think that it is disrespectful not to the Members but to the House itself, but it is disrespectful to reality. It is incomprehensible what is happening in the Greek Parliament. What do we care about SYRIZA's confrontation with PASOK who is the democrat, who is the centre-left, who best defends the left, the centre-left, and all these strange geniuses that are at least nonexistent. I would therefore like to say to Mr Tsipras, who is not here, that he has no right here to speak of a democratic area, no one. So what does he mean? That KINAL, the New Democracy or the Greek Solution or Mera25 is not of the democratic area? Is one of the democrat's own self-democratic definitions, and the others are undemocratic? It is the least unacceptable, arrogant and also insulting. So the rest of you, what's in here? Tell me to speak politically at some point in the Greek Parliament, because I am tired of anyone baptising himself as he wants and of baptizing others as he wants. Progressive selection of the Embassy Agreement. If, therefore, he is a democrat and progressive and says that the Prespecies Agreement is progressive, I ask Mr. Tsipras, who is not here, to tell us what Greece has gained from this painful compromise, shameful, as you want to say. For us, the deal is treacherous. But tell us what Greece won, what we won from this agreement as a country. What our country has taken from an agreement which you signed out of the Greek people, and that is why the Greek people in your national elections have honoured and brought New Democracy, which, of course, does not change the agreement and will never change it from what it looks like. Because if the New Democracy disagreed with the agreement - and the Prime Minister did well and left - I would say to him that the committee of inquiry, Mr Tasula, promised in May, in June, its journey to 2041 has gone. We are waiting, Mr President of the House, for you to bring the Committee of Inquiry into Kotzia, to see who and why he signed the treason agreement of the Prespecies, finality and dash. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] This notorious immunity to SYRIZA, I will say it directly from New Democracy, on the Skopje issue, reminds me of the composer who covers the guilty. It's not justified any differently. You are enjoying the examination for the Greek people to know what happened with the Prespecies Agreement to SYRIZA. And today the two, the three, the four political leaders, with the exception of Mrs Gennamas, who spoke half a minute about national issues, about minor issues and not the major ones. That's what bothers me! Isolus, not a major, because they are engaged in and fighting for anyone's marches and protests - it does not forbid him from the law brought by the New Democracy, it is possible to protest and protest those who want to do the law and order - while the country's course in relation to Turkey is at risk. So what's more important? The course of the hundred and two hundred people or the country's course? Because if the political system behaves like this, it means that we are far from Greek society and away from Greek society, I will immediately say the country, the country. That's not a big problem. Unless I think in reverse about SYRIZA that underground he agreed with the New Democracy about any concentration that comes into the Aegean Sea. Otherwise, I can't justify such behaviour. There's something wrong with my logic. One was talking about Alivizatos and Manitakis, the Prime Minister. I cannot understand the New Democracy complex constantly invoking the Left as if they were gods and sacred monsters and the Buddhists. If you don't get the left alibi to rule, you have an ideal problem. He's got to save and say Alivizatos, Manitakis. And? There are decades. What they did for the country matters. The other took Mr. Gerapetritis and made him by a curator, by a curator. It's amazing. And the man goes out here and says "I am not the author" and we are now discussing whether Gerapeitris is the curator or the author, because we have to prove that they are left and they are right. I don't understand the logic. Times for debate on unharmed conflicts. Something serious I haven't seen. And we come to the point in the Greek Parliament invoking the Chief of Officer's Responsibility with a little man who returned the money - he says - back because he didn't like the money. This, children, is unbelievable, for Mr. Tsipras to legitimize an oligarch in the Greek Parliament, Mr. Marinakis, whoever the small-fashioned, whether the New Democracy is in trouble or not! We don't have any concern for any of the oligarchs. Instead of ending with the few-farmers who intervene in the political life of the country, we legalise them by means of statements in Parliament. That's what bothers me. Of course, Mr. Tsipras is missing. He said he's going to the bathroom, but he's too late in the toilet, and I don't know why. Maybe he doesn't want to hear it. I ask: How serious is this Parliament's image when the Greeks are squeezing away from hunger and unemployment? How serious is the image of a Parliament, when national issues are hanged by a thread and we also have a new Prespecies Agreement in Greek-Turkish and we are concerned about whether Tsipras is left, whether genome is centre-left, whether they are democrats or progressive? Tell me how serious a House is! Then don't ask yourself why 55% of the Greeks won't vote. It is no coincidence that the Greek citizens are not going to vote because by listening to Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mrs. Gennimatas, they believe that their problem is only if we give an alibi to the conflicts or demonstrations. What has been most disturbed - and I will say it directly - is that three hours in here there has not been a single reference to national matters. Tomorrow, it seems, from Turkey, that the conversion of Saint Sofia into a mosque is now being announced. One didn't mention it in here! Why? Tomorrow's what's happening! The sign and symbol for us of Orthodoxy, the Church of Agia Sophia will become mosques, and Tsipras is constantly involved in demonstrations and marches. Instead of telling the Prime Minister 'Come here to discuss how to respond to this challenge', we are dealing with demonstrations, ballots, molotovs, troubles, incidents. He has also made this very clear: Mr Tsipras's excellent argument - I sincerely give him rhetorical cowardice - with the MEDIs. I mean, he said he'd gather out of the S.H.I.E.L.D.s, the people with special needs, to make a move and throw molotovs and punish the S.I.E.L.E.L.D.s! That's a good argument! Absolutely right argument that is addressed to man's feelings! Since Mr. Tsipras is interested in people with disabilities, why are they constantly cutting their allowances and their government and your government? It is not only that - to say differently - why does the New Democracy want to suffer, unfortunately, and SYRIZA are motifs? Those who carry molotovs, when we talk about protests and bullshit, are punished by the flood and not by the felony. Why? There's a difference between the felony and the wound. So you are urging the terrorists with molotovs and helping them to know that impunity enables them to do so again, because the molotovs that are a murderous tool and instrument must, Prime Minister, become a felony. We've asked for it many times. I've been yelling for too long. We tabled the amendment - I have it here - to tighten up the measures. Ask a hundred Greeks, a thousand, a million if they agree that molotov should be punished as a felony. If a civilian has a gun to have it here, and he's going to shoot, it's a felony. The one who has the molotov and throws it is punished with a flood. It's not possible! He can do the other one, deliver it and not be punished at all. This is the problem of Greek society. You're far from Greek society, gentlemen. I am saying this and I am praising my voice along with the others who are fully in agreement with what we are saying. You're away from society. Unfortunately, you're fighting about the little ones and leaving the big ones. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So let's go to what goes on in the other countries. Let's see to our left friends, on the left, on the left - I don't know - what's true in other countries. In France 2019, protesters in Greece, friends and friends are not hiding faces, wearing helmets and holding manures and holding one or two molotovs. It is prohibited by law that increased powers in police force are conceived of turmoil, whatever it wants is to capture the turmoil. Europe isn't France? Local authorities, not the government, the police or the prosecutor, can forbid any protest, whenever they want to, and when they want to. We go to Spain of 2014: Heavy fines for those who photograph or record police officers on duty. What's the ballerina doing? He wears the hood, takes the camera to the cop "I'll make you, I'll take you" and when the cop reacts, we're pulling. We are going to Germany: Protests in enclosed areas are allowed in open space with a 40-hour warning. Prohibition or dissolution if there is a threat to public security. Flag burn? Three years in prison. In Greece, "one cloth" was said by this gentleman, which I repeat, the New Democracy gave him ten ambulances. Ten ambulances got advertising from the $20 million fund, Mr. 'a flag is, it's okay, let's burn it down'. You'll tell me to New Democracy you have politicians who said the same thing in the perimeter. Mr Colleague, for you I say it, you have colleagues in this regard, 'It's okay, a flag, a cloth that anyone has a right to burn it'. And now he's a Undersecretary! That's unbelievable! We are going to Belgium: Prohibition of demonstrations around the royal palace, parliament and parliament. Written application ten days ago! And here we are fighting about whether we should inform ourselves about twenty-four hours ago, two days ago about whether demonstrations should be made, whether protests should be made, what they should carry. He needs reason. I say this to the Left that the logic there is extinguishing because they are very democratic and progressive. Where's your logic? You're a European party, aren't you? We say what they say and what Europeans do. I would like the Prime Minister, if he can, to answer me any moment, because I would like to ask him two, three questions. Let's go to constitutionality. What constitutionality? I said it yesterday. The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Mr Ragus spoke of constitutionality, which made the law on citizenship unconstitutional. SYRIZA spoke of constitutionality yesterday and today, where the Katrugalou law, which killed Greek pensioners, was unconstitutional. SYRIZA speaks of unconstitutionalism when the canal contest was unconstitutional. SYRIZA speaks of unconstitutionalism and defence of the Constitution, when he went and signed a national issue in the Press without asking anyone, the Greek people, without informing any party. He signed the treason agreement of the Ambassadors! Tell me what constitutionality! How constitutional is SYRIZA talking about police violence when in the rally for Macedonia in six-year-old children SYRIZA ordered the police to beat them and tear them down? That's the laughter they're bothering. It bothers me very much how constitutional wood is. How constitutional the Syrian group is. A lot! As long as it is progressive, in Mr Tsipras' view, it is only democratic. I am tired of listening to the words 'democracy' - I repeat - and 'progress'. I'll tell them something that's natural, because it seems to me they're thinking rather than nature. Progress without maintenance is nowhere in nature. If they think there's only progress without maintenance, they're wrong. If they think it is conservative those who want to impose security for the citizen, the law and the order, that the Greek quiet man sleeps at night, that the shopkeeper should not be afraid to go to the Stadium to open his shop, that the student should not be afraid to go to his school, they are wrong. The more progressive, democratic they are, the more they are, the more they say, the more they are. I repeat, law and order. Who's afraid of law and order? Who can be afraid of fairness and boldness in Greece? The criminal, the illegal and the bad guy. So why fear any law enforcement based on the principle of assembly and the right to protest? The law doesn't ban the protests, I've said it a thousand times. There is no ban on the law that says 'you will not protest'. However, it says that there must also be personal responsibility. I repeat that there is not only collective responsibility in democracy, there is individual responsibility. This was the case with the coronary where everyone had the individual responsibility to protect his neighbor, his wife, his children. There is individual responsibility in the protests too. I repeat to the government: Change the law. We have tabled an amendment to you. Molotov is a murderous organ and must be punished. Understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u154	But it's a felony!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u155	No, it's not! Look at the legislation, you're wrong, colleague. It's not a felony. Only if used. If I carry her and hand her over before I go to a rally, I have her in my pocket...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u156	Now we've voted for it!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u157	Look, don't make fun of ourselves, the sieges, but you do the same, both in the Prespes and with the molotovs. I'm telling you, you're a felony. I'm not telling you anything else. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, freedom wants virtue and courage. Here you are a little bland, because you're afraid of the Left. Fear the left. I'm afraid so. Article 13 is the article of the bill you say, Mr. Lebanon. It's a flood. He says it in. Flood! If you're arrested in the incidents at the protest, it's a blow to the bill you brought today. It's a flood, I'm telling you, don't you understand? Even if there are episodes tomorrow morning and some para-staters who have never been arrested, - fifty years PASOK, SYRIZA, New Democracy, the para-staters next to the police with the helmets and the bats, and we know who the para-states are, you say, underneath the helmets, these para-staters who are state-state-runners - if you arrest them, are a flood. Flood, you understand? How do you get the deterrence? The legislator does not only impose sanctions to put someone in prison, but also to prevent others from repeating the crime. That's why the legislator is legislating. There's no other reason. Otherwise, we'd put elbows and end the fairy tale. Oh, no. Impairment of penalties. Prime Minister, why did you take off today, I have it in front of me, the Government, and you extend the restrictive measures to sacred temples until 21 August? Fifteen times, Prime Minister, go to Tino every fifteen times from what I know. Why do the sacred temples by August 21st have this story of meetings to apply, but when it was outside the House that punk, in capital letters, told them to deport you, Prime Minister and politicians in here, Constantine and the rest, the president of the Pakistani, was not arrested? In the churches, however, we had arrests, we had a priest sentence, we had the metropolitan indicted in Corfu. Why do you once again extend the measures only to the congregations? Why don't you tell me it's for all the doctrines. The mosques in Thrace also operated with a coronary, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, they were working. There was no control. Indeed, just before Ramadan, the measures were completely suspended. I'm telling you, Prime Minister, you'll be just. The New Democracy, if it wants to rule more years and leave work behind, must be equitable with the Greeks. He can't be racist to the Greeks. It's racism against the Greeks. The Great Thanksgiving, you guys, it's our Holy Mary! Why would the measures be in place there? Whole C.A. I don't get it! Let's go to the most serious right now. Because for me what happened to Easter, Prime Minister, it was very serious. You closed all the churches, closed the monasteries, shut it down. The mosques, however, just finished Easter and opened the Ramadan, worked properly. In Thrace they were working properly, and they had never been shut down. There was not even an illegal arrest that might have opened the mosque. Listen, Prime Minister, things in Greek-Turkish are not going well. And I would like you to tell me frankly about the new challenge of the Turks yesterday and today, which is the following: they want a dialogue on a Turkish minority in Thrace. We know that in Thrace there are our brothers and sisters who are Muslims in the religion, because the Treaty of Lausanne speaks of it. At some point Turkey must stop conducting a kart in the Treaty of Lausanne. She's being violated all the time. But it is not answered by the Greek political system on the red line. I do not care about protests and protests, I care about Greek-Turkish, because there is a matter. Let me tell you what evil our American friends have done to us today, although of course the means you have controlled, Prime Minister, as a party, do not say that. Today the US ministers refused to see the Chief of HNDGS. They refused, as you can hear, Mr Chrysochide. They refused to see the Chief of HR. Why, while there was a planned meeting and a meeting? Something's wrong with our ally called America. I don't want to escalate or say things that aren't true. But the European Union, whose friend and fan you are doing well - I am not a friend of this European Union, cannot be - with a different economic policy, without an army, with different social standards - a friend of this European Union. I want the European Union of peoples, nations and states, but with a truly united Europe. Mr Borrell, Prime Minister, is coming out and says to Turkey that Greece and Turkey should take account of oil and gas in the Mediterranean. I didn't see a reaction from the State Department. Who is Borrell, who, as Energy Commissioner, tells Cavusoglu in front? And Cavusoglu comes out, Prime Minister, and he shows you, unfortunately, too. I don't want to believe that's true, but Cavusoglu said that's why the country's Prime Minister, Mitsotakis, called Erdogan. I don't believe him, the Turks anyway, I don't believe them. Many times they say a lot more, because they just want to escalate. But I expect the Greek Prime Minister to tell me what the Greek Government will do about St. Sophia. For us, Prime Minister, it is the symbol of Orthodoxy. You may close congregations, for there is the coronary, but we want to open congregations and Agia Sophia to remain a congregation. Stay a church, that's what we want. It's a symbol of Orthodoxy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why? Because there will also be countermeasures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u158	But it's a museum.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u159	For us, it's a Orthodox church. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you with very simple Greek. If he was thinking about yours - who is Thessalon in here? Maximos Charakopoulos, Thessaly would not have been released either Macedonia or Epirus. Some things like the symbols of St. Wisdom, because the Turkish fascist state made it mosque or, if you want, they made it a museum, they won't continue to exist. As a church, it must be. That's our target, to get the least of it at last. That's what I'm telling you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] If you're going to discuss something, you don't go to the logic that it's a museum, you go to the logic that religious freedom was violated and it became a church museum. Do we get it? It's just when you negotiate, you put ten to get the three-- it's no other way-- so you don't get another three at the end. Imbros, Tenedos. What is the Treaty of Lausanne laying down for? Compensation for Greeks and corrections for not only Germany but Turkey, you ask for them. Because they will ask you for dodecanese, Crete, etc. So you put another ten on the table. That's what I'm telling you. If you don't understand, it's not my fault, guys. Honestly, it's not my fault, it's not my fault. Agia Sophia is a symbol of Orthodoxy. Understood. And we don't cancel this. If it is a museum, Kemal Ataturk decided not to freedom, democracy and Orthodoxy. Ataturk decided. Understood? If you agree with Ataturk, your right. I don't agree. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You've brought suggestions. Turkey is pushing - we badly accept it - to open a mosque to the Botanic. Cancel it. Don't open it. September opens the mosque. Don't open it. Mrs. Kerameos opened two mosques a few months ago in Rhodes and Kos, instead of waiting and then negotiating to give and take. You give it and whatever you get. That's what I'm telling you. I'm not telling you to go get the city saves all right together. This does not mean that within the mind of a Greek you can deprive him of the ability to think the "everything with years, again ours will be "yes", because it is legend and legend and tradition. One more, the other one. I'm telling you arguments. All this time I've been telling the government, close the border in the gardens. Turn off the pigeons! Turks go in with their goods. Greece gives EUR 2 billion a year to Turkish products imported. There are thoughts, suggestions, so that we can put pressure on Turkish chauvinism. We have a state of chauvinistic, nazi and authoritarian, called Turkey. We have a bad neighbor. As noble as the Prime Minister is in his personal life, Greece is so kind as against Turkey's provocativeness. And it's not challenging, it's challenging. Andreas Loverdes said so very well - I heard him with my ears - 'We will no longer talk about provocation, we will talk about Turkey'. It's a mistake to talk about provocation. He does so with a lot of sympathy. Let's go seriously. Current judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on ‘VOLKSWAGEN’. We were shouting, Prime Minister, from the outset at Mr Georgiadis, do what America has done to get money back as a fine from VOLKSWAGEN. You never did. Today the decision has been taken and it says that any citizen of the European Union can sue 'VOLKSWAGEN'. Now, listen, let's see why I'm saying this. It gives us the right for Greece to take 100-200 million - we can take them - and nobody does anything. We're leaving private people again. Why am I saying that? Because, Prime Minister, Turkey has just learned that VOLKSWAGEN will invest in Izmir, Erdogan has ordered control at "VOLKSWAGEN", in order to pressure and obtain compensation. That means I'm claiming two, three to get the one I'm entitled to. Otherwise, we're not gonna get anything. Of course, I grieve when I hear, friends and friends, advisors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs say that Cyprus lies far away, that Cyprus is far away, that Kastelorizo is far away from Greece, that it has no EEZ etc. So I'm saying this: I heard Akar's statement. Greek universities - tell me if you agree, Prime Minister - politicians and retired persons have begun to make assessments in the direction of our own rights. You will tell me 'who are they?' I'll tell you one. I read it: Turkey quantifiable is the only country that is the successor to the Ottoman Empire, because all of us are Ottoman children, whether we like it or not we like it. At least historically. You have him here, your congressman. He's a curious internationalist, handwriting guy, who's been saying that at the university he was teaching. You guys of Ottomans are, gentlemen. He's talking about it. On the benches he sits next to you. Children of Ottomans! So we're gay. This gentleman teaches our children at the university. And I don't know why the New Democracy has him in the face of this gentleman. Mr. Courides. It's a big form! Here. Have him, have him. Of course I will tell Mr Lebanese as a historian: 350 BC. You know what happened? You don't know, I guess. You're not a historian. It's your job. He knows from the top. Kimon the Athenian, took two hundred threes and went to Cyprus and liberated it, for the Persians, who were a huge empire, threatened it again. Some people are smiling. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The "top-up" is Mr. Tasoulos, who is very well known, both history and Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u160	And please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u161	But you are only doing this to me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u162	Yeah, just you. Incidentally, you spoke yesterday and today. Just you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u163	You changed the Rules of Procedure yesterday. We did not agree on that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u164	Come on, come on. Don't ruin it now. You said yourself that you were being shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u165	Let's do history lessons. They're helping politics. So I say that he took two hundred threes, went to Cyprus and liberated it, when Cyprus was indeed far away, being taken with a pie. Three and a few airs. Today, you have Rosaky, you have advisors - Mr Doko, our Prime Minister - who say about the same things, something is wrong. These are the arrangements that need to be made. Politicians must do their duty. What is their duty? Advisers who have a different view from ours must be removed. And if our Prime Minister wants to do a job, these advisers will take them away, because they are bad counsellors. And for us - I will say this directly, because the days are coming - Greece 2020 is not Greece in July 1974, Prime Minister. Greece is strong, it has a strong government of a hundred and fifty eight MPs, it has an Opposition that wants to help. In July 1974, we had no government. We had another government, a junta that handed over Cyprus. Don't make the same mistake in Greek-Turkish, or we'll all cry together. Finally - there is no SYRIZA as usual - to say that today in plenary session we had a debate on the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean. The New Democracy MEPs were there and spoke. No one spoke from SYRIZA. Not one. On the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean. And I ask: why? Prime Minister, take measures in the economy as Britain took. What did Britain do today, Mr. Gerapetti? What'd he say? I should like to say to you: VAT on tartars, with the obligation of shops and people shopping with a 50% discount, to go to the restaurant - coffee, cooking - on the command of the British Government, bonuses and maintenance of jobs, two billion jobs, 50% discount on tourists for meals and August. There are solutions and proposals. You're not in New Democracy. You're filthy. If you did that, we'd have multiple benefits. Copy the British option: VAT reduction in the focus from 20% to 5%. 5%, Prime Minister, they took it to Great Britain. But why? You reduce the prices of products, reduce the prices of goods, stimulate tourism, restart the market and the production process to develop and produce products. I'm hanging up with Venice. Another sentence. Venice of ten million, Prime Minister, had a tourist infrastructure: gondolas and tourism. Seeing the crisis, the Venice Regional Government decided to do two things. Firstly, to give private education incentives to do environmental and technology schools to have new students and new incomes. Secondly, listen to why it is very important that abandoned buildings in environmental research centres did them for research into technology. Do something. You are managing economic policy simply management rather than development. Do something, I tell you. There are examples, there are solutions. This is a question - and I call for it to be closed - that is the following: Prime Minister, you do not have a right-wing attitude. I'll tell you straight away: If it were good for the Left, the False Left, it would remain in the government too. If you learn to rule Greek, neither to the right nor to the left, Greek, with Greek decisions on national matters, for the Greek farmer, the farmer and the fisherman, you will have the entire Greek people next to you. Unfortunately, however, you are not doing so. I hope you do it sometime. And not concentrating on the Aegean, because the Aegean is Greek sea, Greek sea, and we do not give it to anyone in Greece and especially to the enemy of Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u167	Kimona told Athenian!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u168	Name I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u169	You said about Kimon the Athenian. Mr. Catherides has asked for the floor, and we have to give him the floor, to explain about the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Excuse me, but I lost the speech of my friend chief of LAOS, but, as my colleagues have informed me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u171	You've lost episodes. There's no LAS now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u172	The Greek Solution. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u173	Just so we know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u174	The LAOS will go to Mr. Ragosi next. As the Minister of LAOS... [[Noise in the Chamber]] So, deputy. On personal grounds, Mr President, I should like to be brief and not to be pelagic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u175	Staff. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u176	I would like to thank Mr Velopoulos for his comments and thank him for that. History and national responsibility lessons I personally do not accept from dealers and telemarketing. Apart from the traders of national sensitivities, and elsewhere the mud of this type, which offers various forms and which has become an issue, has been answered a year ago. For his own reasons, he wants to reheat it and appear in Parliament as the guardian of pride and national responsibility. We are giving them our struggles both to Parliament and to the outside, where it counts and not to the telemarketing of the channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u178	Come on, but let's finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u179	No, we won't finish it. The worst of all is that some applauded. I'm ashamed of them. In my work? I work, Mr President, whether he likes Mr Courides or not. Work is not a shame. She hasn't learned to work. And I will say it straight away: neither was Mr Raguss nor I am the President of LAOS. The man's out of place and time. First of all, I didn't refer to his name. I said 'Mr.'. On the other hand, I would like to say this to him in order to understand it clearly: in order to be paid to the university, the speaker paid EUR 477 000 tax, he declared EUR 34 million in tax, so that he could speak to the university and tell the children that we are Turkish descendants. That's his right. I grieve, Prime Minister, that some applauded the time that gentleman referred to my work. On my job! I'm not cheating. Hundreds of workers eat bread. If the gentleman is a civil servant, let him stay there and if he doesn't like it or he doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u180	To end the story "we are or are not Turkish children". Let's finish with this mud, Mr. Velopole. It has been responded on a number of occasions. It's a lie. It's never been said. I respect individuals, as I respect civil servants. Enough with the mud. Go back to the mud. All right, Mr. Velopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u181	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u182	We will not turn the debate into dispute between two people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u183	You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u184	Yeah, we found it now! I'm the inadmissible! It's over. Your opinions have been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u185	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Vellopoulou, you will not monopolize the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u187	He called me a crook.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u188	No, he didn't tell you a crook. He said 'the mud end'. We're done, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u190	We're done. Don't abuse your rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u191	He called me a crook.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u192	Oh, no. There are Minutes. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u193	Do you hear what you're saying? He called me a crook.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u194	He didn't tell you a crook.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u195	What do you say, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u196	There are Minutes, Mr. Velopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u197	She called me a crook and I won't talk? What do you say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u198	Here, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u199	I'm not coming back to Mr. Courides again. When they spit on him, he thinks it's raining.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u200	Okay. This has nothing to do with our ambitions to show the House in qualitative upgrades, however. The President and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Before attempting to respond to the positions of the political leaders, let me first make a comment, in response to a reversal of Mr Velopoulos' position, on the restrictive measures relating to the coronary. Look, the government constantly assesses the situation and is ready at any time either to take additional measures, if necessary, or to relax measures that have been implemented and which our experts suggest are no longer necessary. Mr President, I would like to point out this: Today the need for vigilance by all citizens, from all professionals, is greater than it was a month ago, for the simple reason that a month ago, the virus was not actually going to be released in our country, but now we know that once we have taken a conscious decision to open our borders and to welcome, on strict terms, tourist flows that there will also be some incoming cases. Therefore, in order not to have new relays and to be able to limit these imported cases to the minimum, we need more consistently than we have done so far, to comply with the restrictive measures. And here is the oxymometer of a society, which is obviously tired after a symphony of the citizens who have brought these results, but now that we are being called upon to remain alert, I too notice and I note some phenomena of relaxation, which should be of concern to us all. I would therefore like, and here I would like to say that the checks, where checks are to be carried out, will continue and will continue in particular in the question of professionals in tourism and focus, these checks will be strict and will be even more stringent where they are concerned with the protection of workers, tourism and the focus, namely the mandatory use of a mask and compliance with the broader protocols that we have been designated by experts. We have no right at this time to relax. The virus is still moving at very low levels in our country, compared to what is happening in other countries that have seen a second wave of refreshment. But we must all be careful. The rules - I will say again - apply to all, even more systematic checks will be carried out and, where necessary, the sanctions laid down by the law will be imposed, so that we can fully capitalise on this great success which we had in the first phase of dealing with the virus. I now come to what I have heard from the political leaders. Let me begin by Mr Tsipras. You said, Mr. Tsipras, in an abstraction quite ironic, which you did with reference to the start of the works in the Greek, that in the crusade you are good and you know that as an engineer. You are indeed good at the fall, Mr. Tsipras, but you know that as former Prime Minister, not as an engineer. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And in any case, when after a very long delay of many years a project finally starts and starts with the demolitions that need to be done, at least you have to recognise this reality and not reminisce the cases of your respective inaugurations, where you were inaugurating works with mustards and painted publishings. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I now come to a second point, to which I must refer, Mr Tsipras, to the question of the abhorrentness of your speech to which you mentioned the Minister of State, Mr Gerapetiti. Look at you, you left a very clear suspicion in your word that the text to which you referred was written by Mr. Gerapetritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u203	I have here exactly what you said. You know very well that the curator of a project obviously does not bear any overall responsibility for matching the views of those involved in such a collective work. I would therefore ask you next time, once again, when you speak to the House and when you submit to the Minutes, to be precise and to submit all texts and not half of them, and not to try to distort reality and create impressions that do not respond to it. You've done this many times in the House. Every time you have tabled something in the Minutes of the House, it turns out that you somehow present half the truth, as you do today. One more recommendation next time be more careful or at least inform your colleagues, read a little better what they give you to testify in the Minutes. I now come to the question of the bill. We were criticised by the opposition - both by SYRIZA and KINAL - because we are tabling this bill now. There was an attempt to link the time when the bill was tabled, with some incoming economic disaster, and that we want to table this bill and vote now, because our purpose in the deep sense is to keep the wave of social anger down, obviously by prohibiting demonstrations which can be made as a result of the economic crisis. If I understand correctly, that's your reasoning. This bill was therefore a very clear pre-election commitment from the New Democracy. This bill was put into public consultation at the beginning of the year. This bill was not submitted to Parliament following a conscious decision by my own and at the request of the Communist Party, because it considered the Communist Party to be an important bill concerning human rights and, Mr President, it should be discussed when the House has returned to normality when we can all participate in the parliamentary procedure. And this request from the Communist Party has been accepted. That was reasonable, and that is why this bill is now being discussed. If the coronary crisis had not arisen, this bill would have been passed in March. Now as to the core of your argument that there is an unprecedented economic crisis that will cause discontent, discontent will lead to reactions and we somehow want these to be relaxed, to tell you that you have often attempted to present the reality much more black than it is. I also saw a very nice advertising spot, which said that "one year, all backwards". Perhaps you see it all backwards, because you have not yet come to your argument that there is not even one in a million to win the elections. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, it is the reality that Greek citizens are experiencing. An unprecedented economic crisis for which this government is obviously not responsible. So speaking of remission "Metsotakis" is completely inaccurate. We're talking about a global recession, about a coronary recession. There is no recession "Metsotakis" because, with the same logic as the economy will recover, because it will eventually recover from the law, you will also talk about "Metsotakis", after the recession "Metsotakis". Let's see, will you remember that then, when the economy recovers? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, as to the substance of what you have said. You made many references to the constitutional right to the right to a meeting. However, you continue diligently to hide that Article 11 has two paragraphs, two paragraphs and that the second paragraph expressly stipulates that there must be an implementing law of the Constitution, which defines the framework for restrictions on public meetings. The Constitution itself therefore accepts in principle that the right to the public meeting is restricted and it is up to the joint legislature to define that framework. In fact, you say other things, because when you say that we come and circumvent the right to a meeting, we do not do that. We define how meetings can be held. They can be done in such a way that the rights of other citizens are not prejudiced. That's what we're trying to do, that's what we're trying to do. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, I would like you to tell me - and Janakopoulos can tell you later - a country of the European Union in which there is no relevant framework for public meetings. Greece was an exception, and there was an exception on your own days because you did not bring a new framework, you stayed with the '71 framework, and you banned meetings according to the beam only when you were attracted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We therefore come to align ourselves with the requirements of the Constitution, but we are going to bring about this difficult exercise of balance between two conflicting rights. And this exercise isn't easy. It is not easy for any democratic politician who fully understands that rights often come into conflict, and that the issue is the limit to rights, so that society can operate with the necessary balance. That is what we are doing and we consider this initiative - beyond that it is right in our view, which is why we propose to legislate in this House - is an initiative which, Mr Tsipras, is also in line with the sense of times and with the desire of the citizens, because it is not our intention to circumvent any right. Our intention, however, is to have an operational framework, which will allow us where it is decided to limit demonstrations, as we have to limit them, so that the life of the city is not disturbed. Because the reality that the Minister has spoken to you is different, it is that fifty people today close Athens almost every day as they wish, and yes to add the concept of civil responsibility - but attention - to the organization's obligations, which are very clearly defined. That is where civil responsibility is concerned if the organizer has done his job there is no risk of anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u204	What job?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u205	What is set out in Article 4 is very simple. In any case, we have taken full account of the comments made by the Scientific Committee and incorporated the amendments proposed by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament in full. Mrs. Gennamas isn't here. With regard to the verbal exaggeration that this bill was re-written with a democratic ink, I understand that it was said at the edge of the parliamentary procedure. The truth is that the Change Movement came to this debate in his opinion to improve the legislation. And our view is that, today, the legislation is better than it was when it was tabled in the House. I have no difficulty in saying this and this is also the usefulness of the parliamentary procedure. I respect and honour a party that comes to the House not with a symphony of rejection at first sight, but with an intent to come and make a draft law better. That's what KINAL did. This was not what SYRIZA, who from the beginning has been vertically opposed to this bill, essentially expressing his refusal at first sight and resorting to a number of arguments that come from the deepest past. I would now like to end, Mr President, with some very interesting references made by Mr Tsipras on post-policy. I heard very interesting things here. I heard them for the first time from you. You told us how lucky you were when you were born in 1974 and enjoyed the great conquests of Postpopulation. Did you say what you have done with a career swinging the two parties that ruled the country, which you have used the worst characterizations for the New Democracy, for the PASOK, for the PASOK, for hanging us all in the handkerchiefs, saying that we are responsible for corruption, for the destruction of the country, and you are now coming to fruition with the political dowry of your relative space, to talk about how good post-grubulation is? You're not lucky, Mr. Tsipras, you're presumptuous. Strict, filthy! Now you remembered the Transmigration. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This party made the Transmigration, Constantine Karamanlis, made the Transmigration by Constantine Karamanlis, who legalised the Communist Party and allowed you to have the life and the route you had. Enough of the hypocrisy in this Chamber! [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] And who are they, Mr. Tsipras, the proponents of the post-multiple deposit? Those who ruled with Mr. Kammenos? You ruled with Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Tsipras. Because Mr. Kammenos is not in this room, you choose to forget about it. You had the choice in 2015 to govern with other parties and you chose to be supportive of the worst version of nationalist populism, because you finally matched, Mr. Tsipras. You matched your perceptions, you were the birth of the same political womb, the battle against the memorials, and you finally ruled with those who suited you. So today coming and making a hopeless effort to appear as a political heir to some of the forces of postmultiple, seems to me to be at least an effort that is doomed to failure, not to use another characterisation. I have noted with great interest this dialogue between Mrs Gennimata and you, Mr Tsipras, on who has the first word on the so-called 'Centre left'. You will tell me that this is not my issue, you are two parties which you feel about the same political area. I must point out, however, that your attempt to change your party, when it is systematically presented through the emergence of a political account that presents the country on the brink of total destruction, these are two concepts, Mr Tsipras, which are not divided. You haven't changed, you remain the same, unrepentant. A year in opposition didn't help you make your self-criticism. You'll have three more years, and you'll be able to make it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u207	Here, Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u208	First of all, Mr Mitsotakis, it is a good thing for political dialogue, and indeed in a quiet style in the House, but when I hear your dentistry many times, I feel that there is a dialogue between deaf people, you do not hear what I say, you repeat the same. I will try to be brief, not to answer all your arguments, I will only be in two. The first is the bill we are discussing today. I told you from the Step forward of the House that there has already been an institutional framework for years now, which is fully in line with the Constitution. The Constitution provides for two reasons why it can be regulated, limiting the constitutional right to protest and demonstration. One reason, it is public security and the second is what we call social and economic peace. I don't call it self-confidence as the Constitution says, I do a free translation, but I think I'm right in interpreting. What are you doing today? Firstly, you are ignoring that there is a framework for regulation. I told you from the Step one is a presidential decree on the days of Constantine Mitsotakis in 1991, if I am not mistaken, which provides for the possibility of public meetings to be banned when there is a significant public security ratio and has been made several times. And over your days and over our days. No, of course, in so much use over these days. But it's done. For the second, which is the disruption of social and economic peace, there is also a decree on your day by the Samara government, by Mr Teddy, the Minister of Public Order, which brought decree and framework, in order to limit the demonstrations when these are few. So there's a framework. All your arguments that we supposedly want there to be no regulation in the city's economic and social life, that we supposedly are with the uncontrollable control of the demonstrations, while you have the sole aim of regulating and nothing more, since you do not respond to what I say to you, it is lame. So today you and the two of your reasons provided by the Constitution add two more reasons. The non-information by the organizers to the police of the protest organisation is not provided for by the Constitution, as well as the refusal to obey the police officers and protesters, who are subject to the subjective crisis of their political leadership every time. And we tell you these two reasons are beyond and outside the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. That's what we're telling you. To which you add today. Make sure you don't understand what we're telling you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Also, my reference to a text of an important constitutionalist, which, in any case, was curated by Mr Gerapetti - I did not say that he wrote it, one question I asked... [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] Don't give me that now. Let it go. I've answered your question. It could respond with just one phrase: 'I do not agree'. But don't do that. In any case, what I read from this paragraph says the very specific thing that has been done. In other words, there was a system of authorisations for reporting or screening by police authorities in abnormal times before. You leave or you don't want to go into the essence of what I said to you and make a whole conflict about whether I told Mr. Gerapetti what he wrote, what he didn't write. Actually, I'm telling you. Do you agree or do you not agree with that? That's what I asked you. And I'm telling you, we have abnormal periods today and we need to get back into this regime, which was foreseen in the false constitution of the period of dictatorship, and we need to come back here today? The Scientific Council of the Parliament clearly gave you its view of unconstitutionalism. The National Committee on Human Rights has also notified its position on your bill, it is against. So don't do it that you don't understand the essence of the arguments, and here we are conducting a dialogue between deaf people. I'm hanging up with this. As I promised, I will be very brief, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, the relocation to this place was brought by the struggles of the Greek people for democracy and preparation, the struggles of the anti-ritorial movement. These struggles along with the Polytechnics School and the radicalization of youth in 1973 brought post-policy to the place. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, you're confusing somewhere. I am the child of that period and of a time when, indeed, he put the country back into a question of normality, social peace, democracy and progress, particularly in the 1980s. Migration, of course, is not a period of ending, it closes. It's still going on. We are in the next period. After the memorials, we had a decisive incision. The orders governing the site were judged both for their choices in those years and for their subsequent choices. I have exercised and continue to criticise the parties of power for the way in which they managed the country's finances and for all these conquests of our people since the 1990s, from the entry into EMU with elements and capabilities of the Greek economy that could not be overcome and later, as well as the way in which you, in particular, managed as a party - especially you - a reasonable client state and customer relations. Your resignation led to the memorial and bankruptcy, led to scandals and to the dispersion of public money. These are no conquests of the struggles of the Greek people of Postmopolitanism. These are responsibilities and choices of your resignation and the ruling party at that time, the PASOK, which was judged by history for this. I would therefore like to close by telling you that the difference between us, Mr Mitsotakis, which we criticised in the bad texts of Postpopulation, but we were here to defend the great conquests of the Greek people and the radicalisation of the anti-dote movement that is now criminalised, is that we are criticising, but we are here to make self-criticism because we have ruled. He says that 'you have not been ruling for four and a half years'. Yes, we ruled. We did not, however, bring the suffering your resignation brought to the place. We didn't go bankrupt. We did not bring 15% deficit, we brought surpluses and 37 billion to the public funds. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We were the only government left leaving the public funds. We didn't get the debt from 124% to 180%. We did not reduce by 25% the country's GDP from 2012 to 2015. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mostly, we are not the ones who created the major post-multiple scandals that are responsible for the bankruptcy of the country. You have never taken as a party collectively, and you and today's leadership of the Change Movement, despite the many positive things that PASOK has done in its history - of course, and you have, of course, done many positive things - not once in public political responsibility, for all that have brought place to the brink of bankruptcy. Once I have not heard you take political responsibility for the 'SIEMENS' scandal, for the armaments scandal, for the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, but only constantly insist on talking about construction. So take political responsibility for everything that is burdening you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will be here to defend the democratic struggles of the Greek people. Because the Greek people always find a way out of democracy in order to defend social cohesion, the advancement, the progress of this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u209	The President has the floor to close this debate on the present and the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u210	Mr Tsipras, the interpretation of the events of each government is obviously subject to the suffering of history and also to the crisis of the Greek people. You were judged just a year ago, the Greek people sent you to Anti-Population, chose New Democracy to rule the place. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Therefore, how you understand all the good you have done, is an internal matter for you and the self-criticism process, which you can or cannot do. It's your inner matter. I am not going to be tempted at all, Mr President, today to talk about scandals and scandals, because I fear that even one of my atrocities will unblock publicity, and we will not give sufficient visibility to everything that was important today in this Chamber. Don't worry. There will be a lot of time to ask and explain all of what we hear. We'll be right here. These are not easy to forget. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, you will at some point also have to answer for what they see the light of publicity in recent weeks. But today is not the time to do this. I would like to focus on a revulsion of your speech in protology, when I mention Mr Gerapetti - not to mention the other issue - you said something that is very interesting and I wrote it down. I wrote it down because it expresses your overall understanding of the functioning of the institutions and the democratic culture as a whole. You said, "You have once passed through the democratic space..." - take note - "...but now you belong on the right". That is what you said about Mr Gerapetti. Take note, then, of what this perception is hiding. This concept actually comes in and builds on the so-called concept of the moral advantage of the Left, and insists on the fact that I have the honour to represent, which, yes, incorporates what we call traditional right, you leave the suggestion that in some strange way you were not just better managers, you were doing better in the economy, but you are more democratic than us and that you have the monopoly of democratic sensitivity because...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u211	Apparently...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u212	Apparently, you say it. Oh, you're saying that. You're not hiding it! Look, in democracy... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Hey, take Mr. Kammenos together, then talk to us about a monopoly of democratic sensitivity! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In this Chamber we are three hundred MPs. We all swear the way each of us chooses faith in the same Constitution. Anyone in this Chamber would never understand to question democratic guarantees of parties elected by the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So don't confuse things with the core of the culture. It is precisely these logics that have finally led you to the implications of the popular mandate as the right of power to be conquered. This fact which I have the honour of representing, Mr Tsipras, is not interested in monopolizing the joints of power. He is interested in strengthening democracy at all times and will always recognise in opposition the possibility and right of being at the same level of democratic sensitivity as anyone else. That is what the modern concept of democracy demands. It's what you haven't done all the years you've been in the government. Unfortunately, I see that you still have these logics, that you measure the democraticity of the parties on the basis of your own balance and on the basis of your own balance, to reproduce them. This view is not good for democracy. I hope you will soon realize that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u213	Very good. The reason is now, in order to get into the Members' flow, Ms. Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou, a SYRIZA MEP. Mr. Velopoulos does something I admire. It's about history. And because Kimon the Athenian cannot protest personally, they told me from the Minutes that he said that Kimon the Athenian went to 350 BC. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It went a hundred years ago, in 450 BC, in Cyprus. And listen to a weird one. He won in Salamis, Cyprus, in the battle, while he had died a month and kept it a secret. A strange victory. It's very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u214	Well done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u215	Come on, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in these two days there has been a very substantial debate on the draft law on meetings, and I believe that through all the arguments and opinions put forward by SYRIZA and the opposition parties as a whole, the authoritarian and anti-democratic aspects of this bill, its unconstitutionality, its authoritarian pursuit, and above all the intentions behind this legislative initiative have emerged. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I would like to highlight a few issues, because there has now been a very wide debate and, of course, because I am succeeding in the debate, the debate and the confrontation at the level of the Heads of State and I will also stand on some points from the speech of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. Mr Mitsotakis said: "But it was in the New Democracy election programme that this law should come." So I would like, here, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, to point out that, first of all, elections and electoral programmes do not mean a white cheque, but much more every legislative initiative of a government is within the limits and within the framework and under the conditions of the Constitution. Our basic position in relation to this draft law is that it is exactly unconstitutional, undemocratic and affects the core of a fundamental right such as the right to a meeting. We heard in these two days that a major effort was being made by the majority - and indeed it seemed to me that the Prime Minister himself tried in this direction - to lower the importance of the 1975 Constitution, which is a Constitution which at the time the majority of Constantine Karamanlis had supported - as you know, the PASOK and the Left had not supported it - to lower, as Alexis Tsipras said earlier, the legislative framework that exists and is implemented, saying that we and all the parties - therefore, putting yourself in - in fact we had left the legislative decree of the 1971 dictatorship. This is not just false, it also shows a paradox. In your attempt to come here and say that right now the Ministry of Citizen Protection comes in and brings this draft law, which revives the 1971 Legislative Decree, to justify it, you arrive at the point where you say that was the case anyway and now you come to legislate. The third point and to be clear. Clearly, the Constitution speaks of executive law. But the executive law of the Constitution must, in fact, be the law that moves within the letter and in the spirit of each article and of the Constitution. It cannot come here - and Alexis Tsipras told you very clearly before - and put additional conditions and restrictions on the exercise of this right, and much more on an article that is fundamental, and where European constitutional and legal culture says that such rights because they are at the heart of democratic freedoms, must always be interpreted and applied restrictively, it cannot be translated and topics added. So we must now come to the essence of deep unconstitutionalism and undemocraticism and respond to the majority colleagues who are 'how are you talking about reviving the 1971 Legislative Decree'? Beyond that, not only because proposals have been made but because there has been an outcry and very strict placement of both the scientific community and the legal associations and a comprehensive democratic reaction, you have taken back some of these issues, but it has remained the core and philosophy. A characteristic example of the revival of the 1971 Legislative Decree is what you have brought in with this draft Organiser Act. The legislative decree merely called the "Chairman". So we're talking about the core core, and that seems exactly how the spirit rekindles. Because you know very well that, following on from the Migration and the 1975 Constitution, they were all fully inactive, of course, the provisions and, as has been said before, presidential decrees and 1991 and 2013, which are the existing legal system on which all these issues are based. So we are talking here about serious constitutional derogations, which come and affect the core of rights and the right to a meeting and show the philosophy behind it, namely the logic of civil responsibility. In fact, it is a logic of intimidation. It is a logic that comes to create a right reduction. At the same time, however, the Prime Minister, who started his speech by saying that they broke some garners and that's what he called vandalism, in fact what he's coming to say? What is the account behind this perception? It comes to combine social protest, claim, social discomfort, democratic rights of collective expression and politics with vandalism, with infringibility... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. I would like to close - and it is the last word - by saying - because you spoke and speak against the coroners of the centre and about everything that exists - because we are walking - in the centre and talking, businessmen, shoppers, small and medium-sized enterprises, if you are currently fighting, are from your own policy as a government, it is from the non-support of the economy and of course live in the centre and the great suffering of the 'big walk'. This law is sure that it will not only be implemented but will be cancelled in practice, because radicalisation is not defined by the laws, but by the social conditions and by the struggles of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u217	Until Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou goes up to Stepma, I would like to say that we are in number eighty-three. The total number of colleagues is thirty. The aim is always - all of us in the Bureau - to speak as many colleagues as possible. The roll-call vote will take place at 10 a.m. This has been finalized. The groups have been notified, and that is why it does not change at all. You saw that Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, speaking for six minutes, arrived in seven minutes and fifteen seconds. No one keeps the six-minute. From now on, then, to speak more - not everyone will talk - time will be five minutes, with your consent. If some people refuse to say so. So it's gonna be five minutes, because no one keeps it. Here, Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to begin by saying a great disgrace to the government's MPs and to the Prime Minister himself, who, once again, are fighting the murder of people at MARFIN, to justify the abortion you have brought to this House and to slander the labour and social struggles. Stop doing that now. It was a murder and nothing has to do with the socially justified demonstrations and marches of workers and actors in society. Secondly, with regard to KINAL, I am really sorry for what I saw happening these two days in the Greek Parliament. And I'm really sorry, because I had something to do with PASOK by 2012. And I'm really sorry that Mrs. Gennamas only mentioned today was the patriotic tradition of KINAL and not the radical tradition of KINAL. And that's the most important thing. The Declaration of 3 September proposed radical changes at the press conference on the establishment of the PASOK, emphasised the radical objectives of the new organisation. The KINAL that we have seen today in the Greek Parliament, the KINAL that votes for a bill that has been made to tackle radicalism, has nothing to do with what we have known so far and I am really sorry. Mr. Mitsotakis mentioned to us, in support of his bill, Mr. Alivizatos, who is a partner of Mr. Chrysochoidis at the Ministry, Mr. Manitakis, former Minister of Government of Samaras, Mr. Slotolo known to be your supporter, and invited us to reread the bill in the view of the approved theory, Mr. Svolos, which I mentioned. He said those who oppose the bill are barren. He accused us of being angry. He therefore accused the Greek Union of Human Rights, the Association of Prosecutors, the Plenipotentiaries' Plenipotentiary, the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, the Council of State itself, which, with its opinions on the Presidential Decrees of the Treasury, has identified unconstitutional provisions. Are all these people varnishes? Mr. Mitsotakis should apologise to all of them. And, of course, Mr. Gerapetti didn't say anything. And, of course, he is not the author of the Constitution, the volume that he mentioned and the interpretation of the constitution, which the Chief of Staff Response mentioned. But he's a curator. And since he was mentioned, he should have had the dignity, at least, and the emotiveness to tell us if he agrees with the author. And I mention self-evidently what the author of the work, which the Minister has prepared for today, has avoided being completely placed. On page 259: ‘The right to a meeting shall not be subject to authorisation, notice or preventive control by the police, as was the case in abnormal periods before’. Mr. Gerapetritis has abstained from answering whether the one we live today is an abnormal period, because that is how you've made it. You are voting for a bill, which is a faithful copy of the dictatorship's Legislative Decree, 794/71. And if you mind so much about it as we call it a place of non-democratic origin, then you should have internal searches from now on. And why do you vote for this? Why legislate and you do not know what is legislating and you do not understand what you are legislating, because we have not seen you - none of you - in any way, in any demonstration, in any social struggle. In the only fight we've ever seen, in the only protests it was against the Prespecies Agreement. We saw some of your executives predicted to be in the protests, have coffee and take pictures to use them for micro-political reasons and not by ideology. And, of course, now these pictures are trying to hide them straight away. What should I start about the bill? In Article 11, you add two further restrictions to the constitutionally guaranteed right of meetings. It should be from now on anyone who wants any body, any trade union organization... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, because you have limited the time, but I was not prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u219	Shut up. Go to the last sentence. It's easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u220	So you add that there should be a prior notification of the demonstration of the course - if possible! - and that there should also be the one who takes responsibility for what happens in the protest, along the way. Do you understand what that means? It will be very difficult for someone to take that responsibility. It's gonna be almost impossible. Otherwise there is the President of the trade union organ, the President of the body. He's dealing with you. You don't want someone to interact during the march or demonstration. You want someone to look after the protest. You want someone to do the police job, to be the insurer, and if anything happens, you'll blame him. But why would that be? There's no police?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u221	Now you come up with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u222	Just a minute and I'll close, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u223	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u224	There's no police? Unless you accept the police failure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u225	You're done, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. And look at the clock across the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u226	It will be the first law that will not be implemented nor in fact and will be the first law that we will abolish when the great progressive alliance comes to the government of the country, because the history of the demonstrations is the history of the world. And people know, judge and act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: ‘Intensification and simplification of the strengthening of audiovisual works, strengthening digital governance and other provisions’. Mr Constantine Bogdanos has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of liberal democracy was crucially summarised by Frederick Bastia in 1850 in his work "The Law". Because it is just the law, the democratically established general rules, which allow the state to protect the life, freedom and property of citizens, as it should be. Today, of course, a hundred and seventy years later, we hear new marxists and former conquests teaching us lessoning, saying that legitimacy is totalitarianism, that is, that is, equality is - of the ranger or that today's bill is not liberal. Clearly, then, they do not express anything liberal or democratic the ideological obsessions of a few, which systematically undermine the will of many. It can't be allowed to singular minorities or bullies ressalt in the sacred concept of the right. Nisafi with your miserable jurisdiction! A reform is mature when no counter-project can stand up to it, when no one can convince an unpredictable judge that things are as good as they are and there is no need to change in the proposed direction. So I ask: Who in this Chamber really dares to argue in favour of the proposal that previous vandalism, the desecration of the board in Marfin are the exercise of a right which we must continue to protect? Who dares to argue in favour of the proposal that we should continue as a state to protect the supposed right to close the streets and paralyse the city, to protest, to make revolutionary gymnastics fifty people? Who dares to argue in favour of the proposal and that the balls and the spoon of small teams must enter - that is what concerns you - in the same basket as the massive, democratic, peaceful demonstrations which they systematically black out? Despite the decibels, therefore, despite the hierarchies that have heard these days from this Step, the answer is: no one. There is no point in all of this, but there is no desire to maintain an absolutely undemocratic prerogative to the destruction of public property, the oppression of residents, workers, shopkeepers and visitors of our towns. Of course it is not true that the batters cannot be isolated from the organizers of the courses. For example, PAME can - exemplarily - guard order and peace in the numerous demonstrations it organised, despite the unacceptable incident of the KNIC candidate, who hit on the back of an EL.AS' man. And he still hasn't accounted for his act? The cries, therefore, do not convince anyone and, above all, they will not succeed in causing the government to stop from the objective of engaging in the establishment in every area of public life of equality and democracy. Besides, he as Prime Minister has stressed from this Step the first time he came up as Prime Minister and said: "Our rules are our rules. We, too, do not play." It is therefore a question of rules that the right to peaceful protest and the use of the city by all should be weighed responsibly. As a matter of rules, we decided to stand up to the Tuli of Turkey in Evros, pushing an attempt to invade a hybrid invasion. The question of rules is the closure of our borders, of land and sea, which - look at - and they exist and can be guarded if there is a will. The question of rules and, indeed, over-calls, is the rapid completion of the procedures for examining the asylum applications of migrants, who are already in the country and the re-promotion of civilians in Turkey or their countries of origin. The question of rules - attention here is the accountability, which I know, Mr Minister, that it is moving quickly - the non-governmental organisations that have resurrected in the period 2015-2019, but also the control by the justice of those such as the 'Aegean BOAT REPORT', the 'CONSOLIDATED RESCUE GROUP', the 'LIGHTHOUSE RELIEF', which give the signals of the Port Corps and the Navy, reproducing material from Turkish UAV, putting at risk our heroes, the executives, who guard the modern warmths of the West. Because that's what this is about. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Mr. President. The speech was for six and a half minutes. And the question of rules is, ultimately, the yielding of responsibilities to stylists - I don't see them here - of the supposed moral advantage of the first time left that they faced the government as a shop, the country as a democracy in bananas, behaved - look at now - as colonists, like pricks of power. You don't approve of them either, and we know it, every decent person among you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u229	We'll answer you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u230	Toward those who believe power is the power to impose exceptions, which is an idea of the theoretical Karl Schmidt Naziism, unfortunately very dear to the officials of the previous government, New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u231	Come on, finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u232	Don't complain when I tell you where your ideology comes from...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u233	Finish, Mr. Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u234	...to place and rule with exceptions. The New Democracy is here to restore universal rules, known to everyone in advance, which establish for each Greek woman and every Greek of equal rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u235	Finish, Mr. Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u236	Today, then, we are legislating together and stress that the phasing-out of our state rules is over. The Hellenic Republic is not allowed to blackmail it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, if you are presided over when I speak, I will speak six minutes and twenty-four seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u238	Please warmly. As you saw your colleague from the same political area, I made comments from the fifth minute. If you want, I will apply the microphone closure. If you suggest it, I will. You shouldn't be talking that way. Excuse me, too. You, where I would really interrupt, interrupt because you disagreed. We all do not agree in this Chamber. And you say something you won't like on the other side. Mr. Couvelas has the floor for five minutes. Hot request to all Members: written texts you have. You don't all speak of breasts. Customise your texts to five minutes. From now on, it'll be five minutes. The second bell will end and the speech will end. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u239	I asked for six minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u240	There's no discount. In five minutes, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the fact that it is only a year since the Greeks trusted the country's rule in New Democracy and in Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is certain that in just twelve months there has been so much for the benefit of our many, and above all our weakest fellow citizens. We can look into the eyes of Greek citizens and tell them "we said it, we did it", without any waste of time. Of course, we have also had the exemplary defence of the Greek and European borders in the migration crisis in Evros, but we have also become an example throughout the world for the excellent management of the health crisis, where good practices, which we have implemented, are also a bosom for other countries, even in the economic sector, which will be severely affected everywhere. Let's go to today's draft law. Other things would be expected from you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We would expect you to point out perhaps that we are late to regulate the right even fifty, a hundred fellow citizens to express their views, their protest, their gatherings, to make a move, but not to make the lives of many thousands of our fellow citizens difficult. We would, if necessary, await the need to abolish the archaic decree of 1971 and to establish similar procedures and practices for modern democratic countries in Europe. After all, we did not hide from the election our intentions to put order in the daily life of the citizen. We had announced that he was entering the universities, taking order in the occupations, in the mess, in the marches, in the immunity. We'd warned that we'd do this job right. On the contrary, you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, once again took off your well-known miserable micropolicy. Didn't you find anything more serious to tell us? You told us that there was no need to regulate the matter, because there was the relevant legislation in the first place in 1971. But that's the junta, SYRIZA colleagues. You reminded us again. But you also found this solution. You said to us 'it is true, but we must not apply it'. "It was made inactive by the governments of Memorandum expropriation," some of your colleagues told us. Indeed, some governments did not apply it. On the contrary, however, your government also had this sad exclusiveity to apply the law of the junta. I would remind you that you banned concentrations on a specific geographical perimeter here in Athens in June 2017 three years ago. You applied it when you proceeded to citizens' preventive arrests in view of the events of SYRIZA officials and MPs in spring 2018. The same preventive arrests you made when Mr. Tsipras opened the Thessaloniki International Exhibition in September 2018, even in the middle of a chemical cocktail with which you bought the Thessalonians. But today you are, really, defending the maintenance of an outdated framework? Where do you finally live? Or maybe how do you really think? Do you not realize that society has matured so far that it respects and tolerates even when it speaks in a way and protests against the views of minorities, but needs and demands that social and economic calm be maintained? That is what we promised in the election, and that is the content of the bill under discussion. So we are doing, firstly, the abolition of the legal decree of the junta. Secondly, we are now regulating the issue by establishing a basic institutional framework that will further protect the constitutional, sacred right of assembly. But on the one hand, the right of a few of our fellow citizens to express themselves on a path in the centre of the city to be satisfied, but also the lives of the vast majority of our fellow citizens to continue unintentionally. They are rights which are indeed constitutionally established in Article 11, but only if they are not abused, as provided for in Article 25.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u242	And finish, please, in the next few seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u243	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, through the necessary institutional guarantees, we will, hopefully, be able to get things into one order. I don't know if you've really experienced the anger and indignation of the citizens who want to go to the doctor, to their work, to the market, to use buses, to go for a walk with their children. You know, in Thessaloniki - I am closing with this, Mr President - because the reports are lasting for Athens and its centre, we have two central arteries to and from the centre of the city. Very often, we feel and experience that the center of Thessaloniki is unaccountable, is quarantine. But it is necessary to find ourselves in this, and that cannot be achieved. So this need will satisfy this draft law. First of all, the protection of the whole, but also the unrestricted exercise of the constitutional right even of a few. The citizens know that and they recognize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, may I have the floor to table some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u246	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. I make some supplements and improvements for Members' information.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u248	Would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u250	He'll share in all of them. Mr President, I would like to Mr. Efstratios Simopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will do a little instruction. What is the big and major mistake of those who make a political analysis, and through the political analysis they also result in the adoption of policies? The big mistake is that they reproduce stereotypes, without taking into account that the conditions change, without taking into account how and when the conditions change. That is what I have lived in this Chamber today from the opposition and, above all, from the SYRIZA, even at the level of a political leader. I belong to a generation, which in 1974 was at the early stage of adolescence. Political controversy at that time was ideological. We joined those who believed "we belonged to the West", that is to say, atlanticism, and on the other hand it was those who said "EEC and NATO the same union". Big fights! Of course, we acted on national reconciliation. After the battles we went to Thessaloniki, all together, to the Castles. It's been forty-five years since. Again, the same sides have other battles, I would say no ideological, in my opinion, without those who belonged to 'EEC and NATO the same trade union' to understand that whether they like it or not was on the wrong side of history. Most of them joined what we call atlantism and now again give another battle. But for me, the battle now has another mark. We're talking about a normality, normality, if you want, on the other hand, about something that's abnormal and that's absurd. So the government has been bringing this normality for a year. How does he do it? With the university asylum law. It wasn't normal what happened in our universities. He did. You had the same behavior. Come in and work. We have seen the same controversy about the issue of molotov. You claimed that if molotov were in the backpack it wasn't a big problem, since she didn't throw it. Is that normal for those who listen to us? I think not. Normally, then, the legislator also worked. Is it normal not to record the trade unions? Oh, no. Anyone who listens to us, a civilian, understands it. It was also established. In this context, this draft law also comes. Let us not forget, of course, about a fourth issue. Is it normal to have buildings in possession and some of you, SYRIZA colleagues, claim that they are cultural centres and cannot be attributed to their owners? It's not normal. Of course, yes, the law applies and the buildings are evacuated. We are waiting, Minister, for the process to begin in Thessaloniki as well. In this context, there is also the specific bill, which restores something normal. It is something that is happening throughout Europe. It does not restrict individual rights. It puts in a framework that has also been translated by the Scientific Council of Parliament, a framework which has also been configured by the Change Movement, and I do not know whether it is possible that other changes will come through the discussion process that we do not know about. So, finally, I will say again the words 'do not play stereotypes' because you will be in this situation and it is not good for our parliamentary system - I address SYRIZA - do not play stereotypes, the times have changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u252	We thank Mr Simopoulos in particular, because he was in exactly five minutes. I will now invite my colleague from the same constituency, West Attica, the MP of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kotsira for five minutes. Mr. Kotsira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law, which is being discussed and debated and which has, in fact, received a large extent both in the committees and in the changes made by the Minister following the proposals that were fruitful and followed by the drafting of the committees, is, in my view, a key element in protecting the individual and collective rights of all citizens and fully in line with a truly liberal model of public space management. Undoubtedly, public meetings in the form of gatherings and demonstrations are a basic way of expressing themselves over time, through which citizens reasonably demonstrate and express their views in the way they choose. Likewise, the protection of public security and the smooth exercise of other rights by other citizens who do not participate in the concrete exercise of their right, namely the development of their personality, freedom of movement, property, obviously of life, and other essentials for the smooth and orderly functioning of society. In my view, as much as we have heard all these days, particularly from the side of the Officerial Response, about the junto and other extremes, which I believe are inappropriate to a bill, which was an election commitment from the ruling party, which after the Greek people's vote has been called upon to rule, I oppose them and consider it to be a bill that is truly liberal and progressive. What is really liberal and democratic? Protect everyone's rights, and the protester, worker, trader and citizen moving through public transport. This is real progress and real protection of rights. On the contrary, abuse of the right by some leads to the deactivation of other constitutional rights which other citizens must exercise properly. So these minorities often abuse their existing rights, which the law respects, because there is no ban, there is no abuse of a right. On the contrary, as we know, there is weighting in all cases of conflicts of rights. A right weighting must be made. There must be a demarcation of rights so that all citizens can do so smoothly, coordinatedly and demarcatedly. Since we are talking about abuse, let us not forget that the ban on the abuse of rights is also protected by the Constitution, by Article 25(3). It is also constitutionally guaranteed and is one of the reasons that is always taken into account when weighting rights. One is the principle of proportionality, and the other is the prohibition of abuse of the right. So what's real progress and what's real maintenance? Should we all be able to exercise our rights smoothly, demarcated, weighting them, so that there is no abuse of one another against the other? Or to ban the rights of many by misusing the right of the few, who also have the right, obviously, to protest? Since a lot of security has been heard in the debate, the criminal treatment of those who break, are destroying, it is indeed self-evident and rightly guaranteed a separate provision in another bill for those who have and make use of molotovs and have a different criminal treatment, but the regulation of this draft law that sets conditions, obviously facilitates the smooth functioning of the police and the proper social activity of those who want to protest and not be the victims of those who break up, and in the end they are all on the same charge. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] So this is real progress. That's really liberal policy. This is really a modern context. This is compatible with Article 11(2) of the Constitution, which explicitly provides for restrictions. This is compatible with Article 11(2) of the ECHR, which provides for restrictions for certain reasons, covering also the provisions of this legislation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Obviously - I conclude because I see that time ends - and the principle of proportionality is respected and the protection of rights is respected and everyone's rights are respected. Because times go on and it is good not to stay in the words, what is'maintenance', 'progress' can be interpreted differently from Accurate Opposition, but citizens do realize what rules are in favour of the interests of many, and it safeguards everyone's rights and what rules it is that protects the few by deactivating the rights of the rest. So we're with the many. That's liberal. This is progressive. That's the rationale. I think it will be voted by a large majority in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr. Chakalotos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Madam President. I begin my speech on what progress is in relation to rights. For two hundred years, about 1780 to 1980, we knew what progress is, the continued increase in rights. We started by individual, we went to trade union policies, and then we went to social, eighth, social, that is, a constant increase in rights. This ended in 1980, when the reverse course began, which the neoliberal powers, Thatcher and Reagan, began, but was incorporated into this degradation of social rights a large part of the social democrats. Let's start with individual rights. Minister, you were in LIBE, the European Parliament's Committee on Rights. I am not talking about Domenek Deveza by the Socialists, who told you that you are a extreme right-wing government, that you are trespassing basic rights for asylum, that it has nothing to do with a modern state of European and progressive what you are doing about push back. Even your team! Only some of Salvini's cowards have supported you. How did the Prime Minister feel that it is a modern and European country when the MEPs, apart from the salvinists, told you that you were far-right and that they had nothing to do with it. The Prime Minister comes here and tells us about Dorkin, who I knew and went to his homework. I have to tell you in this reversal of the long road to greater rights, Dorkin was a libel against them. It's more likely that Ragus will vote in favour of this bill than Dorkin. I'm sorry, Yannis, but it's more likely. And the Prime Minister mentions him in favor of the bill? I do not know if you have read Dorkin's texts, where he says we take rights seriously, and he says 'it is not an argument to restrict rights, because some are trespassing on rights'. That's not an argument. The rights must be extended, because there is even the laws of the state. That's what Dorkin said. Of course, it is not liberalism, despite what you have heard in LIBE, and I would at least like you, Mr Minister, because you are not in the New Democracy, because you are not in New Democracy, to apologize for the government of New Democracy, which when a Member of Parliament, Kostas the Arvanitis, said about the Geneva Convention on the rights of immigrants, you have targeted him and said that he is a propaganda of the Turks and then all the fascist groups have targeted him. Is that liberalism? Does that have anything to do with liberalism? None of this has anything to do with it. Because you're divorced from anything that has to do with liberalism. Marx says so well that only in a crisis manifests the real nature of capitalism and you are limiting social rights - with them you have started in the government - both with the APRC and the collective bargaining and with what you are doing for immigrants. Now we're going to the body of individual rights, which were the first of 1780s with John Wilkes, etc., all that happened in Britain. That's what you beat, the core of rights. You are doing this because the New Democracy - I do not know about you, Mr Chrysochide - has two natures. One nature at the moment, because there is a crisis, is against any social right. The other nature, however, to cover the reactions to the lack of social rights, is to limit both individual and collective rights. And to remember theologically speaking in 431 and the Ephesus Summit, these two natures, the nature of antisocial and the nature of anti-social rights, social rights, individual rights, these two natures are without distinction, without division, without composition in the House of New Democracy. I believe that very deeply, because your real reaction is now manifesting. I raise my hands on the Change Movement, and I shall conclude, Madam President, that it does not understand this huge wave for a period of two hundred years, and it is now coming to tell us that it is okay, because it is limited, in our own contribution, because the original thoughts of the Minister and Prime Minister are less limited. You can't reverse this wave with such approaches. Only when the Left and all the progressive people understand where we are, we will also be able to reverse the restriction of social rights and limit individual and collective rights. That's what we have to do, because our home says very well, that the story of the protests is the history of the world. Because what we won, we won it with protests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, too. Mr Melas from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, many and unreasonable Members, I dare say, in the last few days, in and out of Parliament, that they should be formulated by the Qualifications Committee on the draft law that we are debating today. A draft law that comes to the National Representation, in my view, with forty-five years' delay. A draft law, however, which is liberal, is a draft law that is progressive, a draft law which is a shield in our democracy. The freedom of each individual also stops where the other’s freedom begins. In simple terms, with this bill, citizens will want to protest, they will be able to do so in a rule that respects the rights of other citizens who want to go to work, who want to work their shops, who want to cross the center of Athens and major cities, without suffering and delays. Is that absurd? Obviously, it's not insane. Unreasonable, however, is what we have heard all these days. It is unreasonable that the major opposition should characterise a bill setting out a framework of operation for demonstrations as a fascist, anti-democratic. The first, in fact, who was raped to identify this bill with a decree of the junta, is SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Raguss, who, beyond the designations of a "pigical, fascist bill" and other such a bill, said that in this bill the government seeks to exclude workers and the unemployed from claiming their rights. I even heard him talk about a debate with Mr Chrysochide in the morning and go back ten years and say which seat each one was in. Let's stay a little in 2011. At that time, Mr Raguss was Minister of Infrastructure and referring to the mobilisations of the taxi owners, he said that the forms of mobilisation chosen by taxi owners are not only in all respects unacceptable, but will also bring no effect. The same Minister, in the same year, during the mobilisation of public transport workers, said: "You will not be paid wages if you continue the strikes."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u258	That's a lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u259	In the Minutes, therefore, I make Mr Ragosi's statements, because he doubts them, to see them and to remember what he has said. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Melas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At this point I think I can agree with Mr. Chakaloto, who said before that it is more likely that Mr. Ragus would vote for the bill than Ronald Dorkin. When I read these statements, I thought that Mr Raguss was in favour of this bill and did not oppose all of this, which the current government wants to bring, because he was the Minister himself who threatened those who came to protest about their rights. But let's go a little bit to the bill. With the present draft law, then, we are not forbidden - to make that clear - the demonstrations. Instead, we protect all those who want to protest peacefully, those who want to go to work and do not want their property to be in danger. So meetings with Article 4, will have a name and address. The name and address of the organizer, who assumes his responsibilities, towards both his fellow citizens and his competitors. The organiser will cooperate with the relevant competent authority, inform the participants of their obligations and, at the same time, designate individuals to guard the protest. Also, in specific cases, it will also be responsible for compensation for those who have suffered physical integrity and property damages by the participants. Minister, I would like to propose here. The organiser - I will put this before him - should perhaps also discuss being a mandatory member of the board of directors of the body, who would like to organise this demonstration. Because, apart from bourgeois and criminal responsibility, there are political responsibilities, because all the demonstrations have a political feature. Ladies and gentlemen, since 2008, we have witnessed many sad pictures in our country. Many demonstrations led to trouble, disasters and major tragedies. On 5 May 2010, a general strike and a concentration of the GFCM, the ADEDY and the PAMM. Rain the molotovs, fire to Marfin's building, three people lost their lives. The perpetrators are looking to this day. We are therefore aware of all the reasons why the framework for organising meetings should be laid down. Because we need to know who makes the gathering, who is responsible, what his obligations are and what his rights are. If you disagree with that, tell the families of people who lost their lives in Marfin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u260	Please, please complete it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u261	I'm hanging up with this. So here we come to decide today who we are. Are we with those who want to protest peacefully and at the same time to protect the socio-political life of a city or are we with the bollocks? If we vote for the bill, we're with the first. If you don't vote for it, you're with the assholes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, because there are too many Members who have not spoken, I would ask you to remain strictly in your time, because at some point we have told you that the debate will be closed at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u263	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u264	What for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u265	I consider it provocative and unacceptable that both of my colleague Mr Bogdanou's reports that essentially identify the events in Marfin with the mobilisation of the TEMPUS, the GSP, when a para-state mechanism that has been acting over all these years without the government touching him has done the dirty work so that he can hit the massiveisation of the escalation of the escalating movement. That is unacceptable. They have to pack it back as they say it. We do not need credit from Mr Bogdano as PAM and Communist Party and no protester. At that demonstration, all - armed policemen were unsuspectingly hit by peaceful protesters who had naked hands. In this sense, obviously, the bill will help continue the career they have chosen. The Greek people know.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u267	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u268	No, Mr. Bogdano. We won't keep giving this thing up. Please. Alas, if this conversation is opened now. You said what you said, you were placed and it's over. Please, it doesn't keep coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u269	No, Madam President. He reported... PERCENTAGE (Softly Sakova): Please very much, Mr. Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u270	I will insist, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u271	You insist as much as you like. The process goes on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Bogdano, please don't open the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u273	The Rules of Procedure of the Greek Parliament for the opposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u274	Mrs Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u276	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u277	I got the floor. Shall I, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u278	Yes, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Bogdano, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u280	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u281	No, you know you're going to keep going. Please. We need to continue the process and you know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u282	I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Bogdano, please. You haven't given these samples.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u284	It's important. This is about my personal honor and reputation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Bogdano, please. You said something, my colleague answered what you said and the debate is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u286	But I didn't say. My colleague mentioned things I didn't say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u287	The debate will not continue, Mr Bogdano.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u288	It is a matter of order, Madam President, to follow without exception the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u289	Mrs. Kafantari, continue, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u290	Excuse me, Madam President, but with this fuss, I will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u291	Come on, Mrs. Kafantari. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u292	Mrs. Kafantari, excuse me. I'll insist on you as soon as you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u293	The President-in-Office gives him the floor, but I cannot speak when there is a fuss in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u294	Mr Bogdano, respect the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u295	As soon as Mrs. Kafantari is finished, I will insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u296	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u297	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today must be withdrawn immediately. It is a bill, which is not corrected, a bill that has anti-democratic and fascist character, I would say. It is not corrected by amendments either. I am speaking to KINAL - and I am speaking to colleagues who are not present - that actually proves once again that it is a complement to Mr Mitsotakis' government, although there are reasonable voices within it, but also to the government, which, with legislative initiatives or to say more properly legislative improvements, cannot correct it. It is a bill that negatively expressed the Scientific Council of Parliament, the coordination of lawyers, the association of prosecutors, trade unions, the Union for Human Rights, a bill that clearly divides Greek society. We have heard a great deal these two days, and especially from fellow Members of the government majority. We have heard a great deal about the reasons why this draft law comes, such as that in the center of Athens there are not shops working and, anyway, demonstrations are blocking. Even MPs elected in the 1st of Athens must know that stores in Stadium, for example, began and were closed and devastated from the time of your own memorials during 2010 until 2015. It was your memorial policies that closed around the two thousand businesses in the space I mentioned. They also brought the 25% reduction in GDP. All this is New Democracy and PASOK's coup d'état. Today we are not just talking about the center of Athens. Let's look at the neighboring municipalities in Peristeri, in Aigaleo, how many stores have been closed lately and how much their turnover is down. Of course, the New Democracy MPs and government officials do not know whether they are walking in neighborhoods and in popular areas. This bill strikes the core of the Constitution and democratic freedoms, Article 11 of the Constitution, which refers to the right of assembly, that is to say the meeting. It is essentially the right of persons to determine the time, place, type and content of the meeting, but also the special way of expressing opinions. It is precisely in this nucleus that this draft law is hitting. A second argument, which we have heard very much, was that there was no framework for these small steps of the thirty, fifty people who are in the way. But isn't there a legislative framework? Isn't there a presidential decree by Mr. Tentacles, 2013? The Greek police are very well aware of their work when they let her act in business and do not accept interventions. We also showed pictures of how small marches take place on the sidewalks without preventing traffic. But I want to stand at another point. One issue, Minister, is the reconciliation of society with the Greek police. We believe that this draft law, instead of helping in this direction, protects the citizen, creates problems and exacerbates this relationship. The police, by security, are unfortunately turning into an executive organ. A year of governance of the New Democracy has passed. We've seen too much. You were set up in an election for law and order. The law and order for you were the ones we saw in Koukaki, the incidents with the police in the movies. We've seen too much. You have failed in this too, both in law and in order, as it is understood, as you failed to develop from 4% to 0.7% in the first quarter, which you called it - I am addressing the New Democracy - and positive development. Many of these arguments, therefore, you know themselves that they are unstable. The aim of this bill is to cultivate fear in society, in workers, in citizens. What did Aristotle say? The one causing fear among the many, the many fear. This is exactly what this bill shows, the cultivation of fear in the world, to forget the economic situation, to forget the rotating work, to forget the thirteenth pension, the pensioners, the shops that are closed... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you have given everyone a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u298	Your Honor, I won't give you a minute. You know that. You have five minutes. Up to a half a minute longer. From that point on, I can't give you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u299	..the vouchers of Mr. Brutsi or the sinful lists Mr. Petsa, Mr. Mitsotakis, etc. So fear returns to you, because popular anger strengthens with the measures you take on pretext and the pandemic of COVID, because the extreme right-wing logic - not to say a component - really takes the head in your party too. I will borrow a slogan from the old ones: 'The people do not forget what it means right'. On this right you are showing today also with this bill, although Mr Mitsotakis says that he is a liberal politician who beats democracy, which actually hits the free movement of ideas. In fact, ideas are being persecuted that deviate from established concepts, as you write in Article 19 about radicalization, and we enter another landscape. If you do not withdraw this bill today, which is not corrected in any way, you can be sure that it will not in practice apply. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Bogdano, you have the floor for a minute. I hope that this process will not continue. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u301	Madam President, I very much hope that this will be my answer. Thank you for the reason you give me. Mr Colleagues, you are a communist, I am a liberal, on the right. Our ideological differences are given. My respect for you and the Communist Party is also given. Therefore, please accept to hear the exact text of my speech. I read: "Why, for example, can PAME provide exemplary protection for order and peace in the usual numerous demonstrations that it organises?" I mean, I admit that the GSC, the ADD, the PAME, has nothing to do with Marfin. I therefore have to say that I have them with those who you would say opportunists, I have them with some who have nothing to do with the way in which the JRC, with which I can vertically disagree, but I must say that it is organising its own protests. I'm closing up with this. As far as the unfortunate incident is concerned, I don't want to talk about it, but I want to say that it's not a crime to strike a protester, it's a crime and hit a police officer. Thank you for the opportunity to clarify, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u302	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping your time. Mr. Micopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, it's a difficult conversation, intense, toxic, I'd say, many times. I think all the arguments have been heard. That is why you will allow me to make a little more free placement. Thinking of this two-day debate, I think I can summarise the arguments heard by the Members of the House, the Ministers, the Parliamentary spokesman on two sides. The first part is that it is our election commitment. That does not mean, Mr Levanne, that the bill is unavoidable and is not subject to criticism. The second basic argument has nothing to do with an institutional or political analysis. Act your favorite theme. In other words, you are triggering social automation through your conversation. Why are we bringing this bill? Because the center of Athens is paralyzing, because there are fifty or a hundred people who make a mess, so social protest must be criminalised. If there is such sensitivity on your part, then why don't you show the same sensitivity when in the last few weeks, because of this phenomenal idea that Mayor Athenians had to build the "big walk", paralyzes the center of Athens, creates traffic suffocation twenty-four hours a day? Show the same sensitivity to it. I, Mr Chrysochide, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, am a young man. It is a pity for parliamentarianism and democracy in general that all the parties in Parliament have people who are thirty-five. Mr. Bogdanos, Mr. Kyranakis, Mr. Melas from New Democracy, while Mr. Sarakiotis, Mr. Katsis, from SYRIZA. That's something very nice. I have studied Political Sciences and History at Panteion University. Reading, Mr Chrysochoidis, this bill came to mind a period of modern Greek history, which we studied at school. So, thirty-five years old, I remembered the peculiarity again. Mr. Bogdano, you are aware of history, you know what's special. In other words, the criminalisation of the applied ideas, the criminalisation of communism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u304	It was Venizelos's peculiar name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u305	Out of curiosity, I was toured to Nea Ionia, my special homeland, which has many people, fortunately still alive, who were in the ranks of EAM and ELAS and fought the fascist conqueror, the German. I talked to people who were junta resistance. Do you know what I've been transferred? That this bill, compared to what they had lived in those days, have little differences. I think it does not look forward to the youth of New Democracy at this time reminding you that you are the continuation of such dark times of modern Greek history. Is that what you want to be, Mr. Bogdano? I think you have brought some improvements, Mr Chrysochide, which have come to justify KINAL's votes. Why do you want these votes so badly? But to dress with a pragmatic progressive cloak a deep anti-democratic political order. I personally have no impression, because that is your political behaviour a year ago. You always call yourself liberal, but on the substance your actions, the expressions of your policies, are hard conservative, emerged from the darkest times of modern Greek history. I think it is politically disgraceful for the New Republic of 2020 to give rise to association for the State of Right of 1950 and 1960. But I think there's something much worse. This bill also hides a huge insult. You are equating the workers of this country as a whole with people with doubtful motives, which are constantly and systematicly violating any demonstration. I am not from Athens, which is supposed to be in hostage every time fifty or a hundred people decide to dismantle everything. I'm from the periphery of Volos. Are there the workers in industrial areas, who already see cuts in their wages, the labour centre, the food workers, tourism, Mr Lulis' factory, who also have a Secretary-General of Tourism, if they are campaigned to compress down their wages and working rights, to be treated as 'blacks' and as offenders? Is social protest a criminal offence? In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to denounce this. We really live a political and historical paradox. Mr Chrysochoidis, as Minister of State over New Democracy, reinstates the state of the guerrilla. I tell you, gentlemen, that you have kept that state for many decades. It was, however, dissolved in 1981. I would like to inform you that it will not take decades to get that logic down, but the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u306	And I, Mr. Colleague, for keeping your time. Mrs. Papanatsiou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u307	Madam President, I request the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u308	Mr Bogdano, you ask the floor every time your name is mentioned. Please. We'll never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u309	For ten seconds, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u310	We'll never finish. Let Mrs. Papanatsiou speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u311	Madam President, I would be done. I'm asking for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u312	Ten seconds and you'll be done. Look out, ten seconds and there will be no answer from anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Micopulus, thank you very much for the report. I'm not ashamed to say I'm right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u314	Liberal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u315	...because I'm a right-wing liberal. Secondly, you said about the name. The name of Venizelos. Papanastassiou suggested Venizelos the peculiarity not only of communists but also of fascists. You've fallen into something that I've studied.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u316	This one today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u317	The peculiarity is exactly the opposite of what we are doing today, because the peculiarity is an exception to the law, and we bring equality and legitimisation, the same rights, the same obligations for all Greeks and all Greeks. Mr. Micopulus, don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u318	You spent ten seconds, Mr. Bogdano. Your word contract, you know it very well. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I never imagined that in 2020 we will be discussing a bill which, if not suppressing the right, of the assembly of citizens. Unfortunately, the Government of New Democracy wakes up unpleasant memories to us, but also to the majority of the Greek people. What exactly are we talking about today? An anti-constitutional bill that directly hits the core of democracy, which finds conditions and conditions, in order to easily restrict and give citizens the right. A bill, the unconstitutionality of which the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, the coordination of lawyers, the Union for Human Rights and the Association of Prosecutors itself have already been affected. A bill that gracefully allows, where it chooses, the way he wants the protest. One would say that citizens' claim will now be made thanks to Mr Chrysochide's kindness to allow it. In the face of this flagrant violation of a fundamental constitutional right, the government responds that the safety of life, health, property and the safeguarding of normal circulation prevails. Does the government not know that in the event of an offence the Greek police have to intervene and do the right thing? Does the government not know that, in the event of a small number protest, the n.d.120/2013 is in place, on the basis of which the police can place protesters on the sidewalk so that traffic is not hindered? I would like to ask you, Minister, who was the original provision, which provided for the criminalisation of citizens' participation in a peaceful demonstration simply because it had not been made known before? Adopting a specific crime with one year's imprisonment for participants in a peaceful process had not dared to bring the junta to legislation, ladies and gentlemen. Of course you rushed to withdraw it, not because you didn't believe it as a provision, but to do the favor of KINAL, so that your brother could stand on this squeeze of the world he claims. I wonder: What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of a new world wave? Are you afraid that new regularity brings the majority of citizens to bear on unemployment or part-time work? Are you afraid that a minimum social cohesion has not been ensured and there is no employment and decent living plan? Gentlemen of the government, the scene is clear. What is provided for in this bill is the cornerstone of your liberal ideology. As much as you want to look at it, they aim for one thing to prevent people from participating in the socio-political life of the country, to silence every voice of protest, every voice of opposition. You choose this circumstance as a pre-economy to solve your hands, since you well know that with your tragic choices in the economy you will inevitably face the lack of unemployment and mass poverty in the next period. Then it will be clear that the government's political will to shift the burden to the weaker ranks and to the workers will be seen. That's why you're ruining the right to assemble by putting the EL. in a final role. The police initiative reminds you of the following: "They have taken many years to feel that the citizen is a policeman as well as a common man, as he and now some people are trying to return him to dark times and to overthrow him again to idolism." You were wrong to see the discipline of society during the health crisis and you are now attempting a great deal of interference with the constitutional rights of citizens from Lockdown on the Great Walk and from there in the Protest Legislation Bill. You give the feeling that the government will now define the presence of citizens in outdoors, in the city, in the streets. You are trying to institutionalize your logic, which says: we only allow what we allow. With "we" I mean you, gentlemen of the government. At this time, you are closing down a year of governance of the country. What's your deposit? A new recession that began before the pandemic, increased unemployment, waste public money. One year New Democracy and finally, you made the list of the amounts received by the media for the campaign "Home Home". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Except, on the list, there was a column missing, the one with the criteria. But here again we are meeting the logic of ownership, which governs all your policy. Remember well. Neither the city nor the streets nor the country nor the public funds belong to you! We won't allow you to make your state a brick. We stand against your ideological obsessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mrs Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are blaming the government that this bill introduces draconian provisions and sets strict limits to public meetings and that it is - listen, listen! - transfer to the junta municipal law. How hypocrisy he hides in these claims! The U.S. Decrees have never ceased to apply, regardless of whether they had become inactive. This is because, since 1974, no government, including the SYRIZA government, dared to abolish them, although the Constitution itself provided for the adoption of a law on public outdoor meetings. The paradox is that in the forty-five years that have taken place since 1975, no government has taken care to bring to Parliament the implementing law which lays down the conditions and conditions for the application of Article 11 of the Constitution. Or as often as he attempted in a cowardly way in the past, with the first reactions of the Left, there was an unscrupulous retreat. So we dare today. So I ask those who blame the government as authoritarian and anti-popular: do the country still want to live with the liquidity of today's lawlessness in public meetings, where, for example, a small group of protesters may suddenly also upset the socio-economic life of a region or with clear rules for making each of us take responsibility for the right to meet? You are talking about strict arbitrary and anti-democratic restrictions introduced by this draft law to exercise the right to a public meeting. But the constitutional legislature itself also places the exercise of this right under the special pretext of law, since public meetings - as we all know very well - may be the source of the crackdown on public security or the disruption of socio-economic life and such examples have many tragic consequences. We all know, however, that there is no right when it is not defined so that it is exercised in such a way that it does not prejudice the rights of third parties. Do we want the right of public assembly to be abused and to the detriment of the rights of other citizens to be exercised? Do we want the socio-economic life of a region paralyzed and the centre of Athens to die administratively? Do we want to dominate insecurity? Do we want the damage of property or sometimes the loss of human lives? So let us not be hypocrites, and let us not be blind. The bill attempts to regulate how the right of assembly will be exercised with the necessary institutional guarantees. It is a law which elects the incomprehensible insanity of the abuse of the protests, especially if one sees it from the point of view of the citizens, who are deprived of the constitutional right to freedom of movement and of the business of the centre, who lose every year from the demonstrations of 25% to 30% of their turnover with corresponding job losses. I wonder: Is there a European country that has not regulated the right to assembly and which allows successive and uncontrolled demonstrations that paralyze the socio-economic life of a region? Of course, I do not forget, the SYRIZA who has raised the tons, talking about the law of law-making origin, how they banned - when they were in the government - concentrations in Exarcheus or because of foreign leaders' visits. Even former Police Director Constantine Micharinas had troubled SYRIZA's government through his personal Facebook account, in November 2016, writing: “How things change! I read reports of banning walks and meetings the next weekend and I get weeped. Where are all these brave left warriors? What happened? Are they lost? No, they've been mutated, they've become government now, and they know that without police, no step. First time left, let's make a different one. Municipalities.’ For the record, Mr. Micharinas was General Police Director at Attica who, on his own initiative, gave orders - left the bars when SYRIZA won the elections. Another hypocritical attitude of the Officerate is the role of the police in conducting the demonstrations, which is clearly expressed in the Constitution and, in fact, in Article 11. Why does the Civic Opposition, which today sees the right of police to judge what concentrations and which are not permitted, did not propose, although it could, as a government majority, during the revision of the Constitution, change or repeal of Article 11, as proposed by the JRC? Because it is not currently involved in a consensus dialogue and is sterile and unilaterally critical, preventing the law on public meetings from being the result of a fruitful and effective dialogue and wide-ranging consensus. Let us not forget that regulating the right of public assembly is an application by the majority of society. The need for a wider consensus is shown by the legislative improvements to the bill, which make it clear that the spontaneous meeting is not forbidden, the procedural guarantees are strengthened with the agreement of the President at first instance and the presence of the Advocate General. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to assume our responsibilities, dare and move forward, by guaranteeing by means of an institutional framework the right of public assembly and the free expression of citizens, but also by defending the rights of third parties, so that everyone does not violate their lives and dignity. After forty-five years, then, finally, this hour has arrived, the time of self-evident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs. Tyloridou from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting is turning the clock of history in the 1960s. This is a step backwards in the area of rights. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis restores to the legal order of democracy the spirit of the repression of the mind and turns it into a letter of the law. Regularity, he says, is only ensured in the urban area when democracy is reduced. On the pretext of some incidents that various groups make, while there is already case law in the Greek legal system, on the pretext that fifty people cannot close the center of Athens, while that exists in our legal framework, the government today brings a undemocratic and anachronistic bill. What does he propose to deal with violations of human rights? The definition of the person in charge of the course. That's not a passport for the assholes. They will no longer be responsible for their actions. He'll be moved to the head of the march. So when the brats make incidents at an ADED meeting, they will not be responsible, but the president of the ADED or when they take place at an ODED meeting, they will not be responsible for them, but they will be responsible for the ODEM meeting. Who will be responsible for a demonstration of young people starting through the Internet? Young people around the world for climate change, for example, are making gatherings. That's where he'll be in charge? There can't be. So, what's the goal of the bill? The aim is to limit workers' reaction, weaken trade union activity, reduce social strata. The aim is to strike the different viewpoints of the collectively resisting subjects. The aim is social reaction, the social opposition, which has changed the world historically and over time. That's what you don't want. You do not want the people to be involved in policy-making and you are trying, in any way, to manipulate public opinion and to take the right of criticism and question your choices. You have created the account of the identity of the citizens, who defend their rights not much or much with the riots of social peace and make reasonable leaps to try to disarm them from the power of their ideas, because you may be good at creating a communal virtual reality, but you know that at the level of ideas you lose by hand. You're turning against the democratic mind of youth and popular classes. Your bill is the imprint of the authoritarian logic of state violence and repression. The police will be responsible for giving permission. So we came to the point that the student clubs would be on the way to the Polytechnic anniversary, to obtain the approval of the Police, the Polytechnic, which, in 1973, took place without permission from the Police, and if it were today with the law now passed, Kostas Laliotis, Stephanos Tzoumacas, Dimitris Papachristos would run to the courts, as the junta ran them. Against this background, you will not only have the trade unions, the lawyers, the moves to defend human rights, the police trade unions themselves, you will not only have the parties that express the racing traditions of our people. On the contrary, you will even have the genuine liberal citizens of the conservative party who are aware of the danger to democracy represented by your extreme populism. With this bill you are entitled to the far right wing of your party and you are making her the tribute for the frustration of your political opponents. But traders, businessmen, free traders, workers, unemployed, farmers in Kastoria, Piraeus, Patras, Keracini, Crete, Rhodes, Aigaleo, Peristeri do not feel frustrated because there is a demonstration at the University or at the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u324	Your Honor, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u325	I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. They feel desperate because they see a government that has abandoned them to their fate. And you know that, you fear that. He'll get that bill the answer he deserves, because the lies are over. As much as you find corporations, even if you are convicting them in reshaping or coexistence, they no longer have the power to support you. They are divorced from the values and struggles of the overwhelming majority of our people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u326	Your Honor, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u327	This bill scatters fear and anyone who sows fear in the end reaps it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Boutsikakis has the floor for five minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u329	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you spoke before me, I would like to tell you that the objective is not that, it is none of what you said. The aim is a favoured state, a organized state, a class state, a state where all citizens will be free and not just minorities, but all citizens. So you should see it a little differently, I think. The Hellenic Republic, ladies and gentlemen, with almost half a century delay, comes to fill a gap to protect individual freedoms and social and civil rights. Our Constitution provides for the adoption of a law on public meetings, so that by decision of the police there is either a general ban on public security or a particular area, if the disruption of social and economic life is threatened. However, for over four decades no laws have been passed, as is the case in every European country. The result of this legislative gap is experienced by all those who move in the centers of our cities. Actions on almost daily basis, vandalism, disruption of public silence. Unfortunately, our democracy is still in place, and now there are cases where we are applying junta-laws for meetings. They were not abolished by you on the first time on the left. What are we doing today, ladies and gentlemen? The self-evident thing! What's that? Apply what's true in the civilized world. We therefore put in place a modern democratic framework for the right to sit together. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, tell me how you understand a modern rule of law. What purpose have they served - let us say - the unprecedented and incalculable damages and disasters made in the 2008 demonstrations? Why did Marfin's tragic events have to be lost so unfairly three human lives and an unborn child? Demonstrators should be allowed to act arbitraryly and uncontrollably? Burning, breaking, killing? They're the only ones who have rights? Do residents, workers, shoppers in the city centre have no rights to protect their property, work, social and economic life? Why does the entire business world in the middle of town have to go down rolls every time a group of hooders go out there and decides to break their properties? To these questions, we are now responding and we are clearly answering, with a framework of logic and justice, with rules and respect for the constitutional rights of all citizens, with the police and the port ombudsman as a key link between the authorities and the organizers of the meeting, as a guarantee of its smooth implementation. We are actively facing the "bugs" who enter the protests and create all the problems. Finally, we establish the responsibility of organisers in compensation when they do not disclose and take all necessary measures to protect the life and property of citizens. Finally, in the context of the digital reform of the state, we create a special website. Through this, citizens will be informed of all traffic regulations in good time. So we're putting an end to their suffering. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a good thing if SYRIZA were not to speak of a junta when our Government, the New Democracy Government, abolishes these laws, these junta legislations that SYRIZA has implemented and maintained. We, as opposition in 2015, never spoke of a junta, when the SYRIZA - ANELs amended the law on agricultural mobilisations and increased the prison sentences in these mobilisations, nor in 2018 at the condolences for Macedonia here in Syntagma Square, across the street, and in DUTH, where SYRIZA had ordered preventive arrests outside Velidio and the police were casting chemicals on the elderly, women and children. SYRIZA's so-called democrats were judged by the Greek people. "If you want to test someone's character, give him authority," Abraham Lincoln said. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, took the vote of the Greek people in 2015 and showed your true face. Public meetings will be held, but they will be done with respect for the rights of many. That is our objective, that is what we will achieve, and that is what we will vote on today with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mrs Biziu from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, more than three thousand marches took place in the centre of Athens last year, that is, almost nine marches a day. The figures of the Greek Police indicate that more than 30% of these marches had participated, which did not exceed 100. With this information in our hands I wonder - and with me millions of Greeks - how there can still be some who doubt the necessity of today's legislation. Freedom of assembly is a fundamental right to any democracy, no doubt. But what about work, property, freedom of movement, rights, which are often weakened by minority voters at the expense of the majority? In the New Democracy, we also respect one another's right, provided that it is not exercised at the expense of others. The bill under vote neither restricts nor abolishes the marches and gatherings, as was heard from the wicked in the previous days. Large gatherings and protests are not even touched by this bill. What we are doing is protecting citizens from unnecessary suffering and the entrepreneurship of the centre from economic suffocation. When rights are exercised outside the rules, outside the institutional framework, we are leaving the sphere of rights and entering the sphere of immunity. For some reason, however, immunity has become normal when it comes to protests and marches. It's become normal, a hundred people blocking traffic for hours. It has become normal for few to prevent many from gaining access to work and their property. The attacks on police and police vehicles, the damage to public and private property, which the Greek taxpayer has finally been called upon to restore. How many times have we seen protesters in marches holding bats, supposedly to support flags and banners and the same bats used to destroy cars and jams to attack the police forces? Is there really a wise man who refuses to ban violence in the protests? Finally, the bill protects authentic protesters from such phenomena that condemn a protest. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not restrict or weaken rights, on the contrary protects rights. We have been used to the right of assembly for many years to prevail any other right, or rather - to be precise - the verb'state' is the minimum performance of the real image. In fact, the right to a meeting many times, not just insulted, but actually canceled any other right of residents and workers in this city. According to data from the Athens Commercial Association, in the last few months the center closed on average three times a day. So when few people force thousands of their fellow citizens to close their shops, not go to their office, lose their incomes, then undeniably the constitutionally guaranteed rights of work, property and freedom of movement are not simply affected, but are being cancelled. What is the real purpose of individual rights? And why did we get to identify the right to immunity and abuse? The exercise of individual rights and individual freedoms requires responsibility and respect for the freedom of others. It does not mean a right without an obligation, because no right is unlimitedly protected. Individual rights are primarily addressed to humans as part of society and not as a person. Because we are not all living alone, but in organised societies we accept that our freedoms end where our fellow citizen's freedoms begin. And while we easily accept the limitation of the extent of our rights as a sign of respect for the rights of our fellow people - for example, we accept that freedom of expression does not involve the hybrid - we find it difficult to accept this self-evident when it comes to concentrations and marches. Respect and responsibility, however, is what distinguishes the exercise of a right. It is common sense and requires that every citizen sets limits on the way in which public meetings are held so that public security is not threatened and that our economic and social life is not disrupted, as is the case with the Constitution itself. The Constitution itself does not provide for abuse. Many of these days have been heard about junta and hunch practices. I ask: is it a junta that people want to protect their property and work? And is it not judging the will of the fifty, the hundred, the hundreds of thousands and millions? In modern democratic states the imposition of the will of the few is a junta. The will of many is called democracy. I would urge those who spoke of junta to review the definition of the word. Today we are legislating self-evidently. The logic of the absurdity prevails today. By respecting every individual right, every individual social freedom we establish the framework so that all citizens can exercise it freely without abuse, as is done in all modern republics. Because democracy must not only defend and guarantee all rights but also ensure balance, social peace and security in these institutions when there is a conflict. Election has promised us that we will regulate the merger issue. The result of 7 July a year before leaving room for another thought. The Greeks welcome this position. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote in favour of the bill is self-evident. His vote runs counter to logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mr Mandash has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the difficult political position in which the Qualified Opposition is found particularly after the last shocking revelations. With fear that day after day and with all that comes out in the light of publicity, she loses a significant share of her left audience, she deliberately comes to Parliament and energizes the political climate. He's using extreme political speech. Suffice it to say that the word junta and its derivatives were heard within the Greek Parliament by the mouths of the members of the opposition hundreds of times within the two days. The worst of all is that it is once again trying to bring about a divisive rhetoric, which says that anyone who has the opposite view of us is far-reaching. She invented up to a measurement scale for the democraticity of her political opponents. So SYRIZA attempted to put an ideological wrapping in this bill. The reason is because he wanted to strengthen his conquered image and to be politically rescued. That's the reality. Two days now you are defending, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with great interest, the rights of all our fellow citizens who want to protest. You highlight their constitutional and democratic right. It's like someone disagrees with that. As if the government or the Collapsing in that logic disagrees. How could he disagree when it is guaranteed by the country's Constitution? I really wonder about the rights of the rest of the citizens in this country why do you not show the same importance? Why don't you report them? Have you spoken to the merchants in the center of Athens? Do you know how much it costs one afternoon to keep a shop closed? Do you know that? Do you know how much it costs for a store if they break his window? Do you keep in mind what the cost is? Do you keep in mind that a catering shop, which won't work one afternoon, will be called to pay all its expenses? Do you know that? The fear of all these businesses because they will be damaged in their property? Who protects all those freelance professionals, taxi drivers. The drivers of public transport have you asked them? The citizens who change their lives without knowing? Someone starts to go somewhere and in the middle of the route learns that the center is closed. Or do you think everyone has the power to go through the blocks because we're MPs? Have you spoken to all this world? Have you lived their agony and suffering? Don't they have rights? Who will protect these citizens' rights? Their properties, who will protect them? You denounce us for two whole days that the New Democracy is hosting, says, any expression of discomfort, trying to make it illegal and uses means of repression for it. That society, it says, does not exist for the New Democracy. Your MPs have said that. That you cannot dismantle means that man’s natural tendency to assemble. It's funny, it says you can imagine that you can do that. I would like to remind you of what you were doing when you disagreed with the protests of the world. In 2017 and 2019 you banned some protests. For these demonstrations and protests that were made, which you would not like, why were they against your beliefs, what did you do? You sent the police and sprayed the pensioners with tear gas. That's what you did. You went to the Prespes and put chemicals in the protesting world. Here's the photos. They have been published. Pensioners. You used everything that went through your hand to suppress anything that was against your choice and I want you to. We bring them to you here and I will present them to you in the Minutes so that you can remember exactly how much your democracy, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is overshadowed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Pericles Mantas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The bill finally covers an important gap in public meetings, ladies and gentlemen. It takes a class and streamlines the way the marches and demonstrations take place. No democratic right for citizens is limited. Because apart from the right to protest, there is also the right to freedom of movement and movement. There are no compromised petty people who want to go to their jobs without being troubled and without being indignant. With the bill, then, we are implementing the revolution of reason and self-evident. In our urban democracy, there are no repressive and totalitarian perceptions. Besides, others wanted to control the joints of power, others promised that the next day would be different.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u335	I shall conclude, Madam President. Others were the ones who claimed to have taken the government but not the authority. Let go of hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. The Greek people have learned you now. Coordinate with reality and try to become more beneficial to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA. Get Mr. Sedetakis ready from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u337	Madam President, I shall begin unorthodoxly. I will begin by expressing the warmest congratulations and thanks to the Minister for his draft bill for two reasons: for the political time in which the bill was submitted and for the political content of the bill. On political content, Minister, you have achieved something very difficult for a one-year government. That is, to create a Romanian politician where on the one hand we have the New Democracy and the other conservative forces - to remember previous years' phrases - and on the other hand we have the rest of the opposition. Unfortunately, KINAL has chosen the wrong side along with Mr Velopoulos and Mr Bogdano. I hope the KINAL officials who were not here today listen to their speeches and understand who together will vote for the bill at night. And with regard to political time, congratulations. Congratulations on bringing this bill July. Because in the New Democracy some want to forget the political history of the place, not the very old, not a hundred years ago. They want to forget what Juliana means for the Progressive Order. Fortunately, however, the citizens remember it. They want us to forget what happened in the summer of 1978, when a student then found that the New Democracy MPs voted for Law 815 as you think it was wrong to vote and pass, but the law was not in the papers. A law passed on 22 August, with a large majority, never applied, created a huge reaction movement and despite the fact that it was then based on universities even on forces that were not to be supported, you were unable to implement it. He created a great story of protests, reactions, mobilizations, major political developments even in the area of the Left and fortunately, because they ripped out new shapes and new expressions and forced the powerful New Democracy government to withdraw it. The New Democracy government was not saved then, as it will not be saved now, by police violence and repression on our backs. I can assure you, therefore, that those who forget political history will relive it and live it very soon. We are talking these days and I hear too much about the demonstrations. I understand the "allergies" of some, but that's the political life of the country. We're talking about the protests and some protests are a bowling, trouble and images in the news reports. For others, it is the only way to claim basic rights and I personally feel proud - there are not various Members of the New Democracy who I understand would be running for allergies tests as soon as they would - because I have been involved in too many gatherings, demonstrations, occupations and a number of mobilisations, within trade unions and other tasks since 1974. I have tried, along with many other citizens on my back, the police teams, violence, the repression by governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but they have not yet been able to achieve their policy. I've been arrested at a trade union gathering, I've been to the prosecutor on Friday noon, who, unfortunately, felt that I had to be referred to the self-adventure, where I went handcuffed and accompanied by policemen, but fortunately the court acquitted me on a solemn basis. I mean, then, that I know from demonstrations and the last lesson in this area was the great experience of the mobilisations and demonstrations of the Ministry of Finance heroic racing, which were very well done and mobilised and were able with their mobilisations to give a message of struggle, to mobilise the whole society and finally to manage to solve their problem. I would like to stress two points, because I understand the issue of time. There is, these days, a mythology by New Democracy officials, mainly, but not only because the conservative block is slowly formed in the Chamber. They're trying to convince SYRIZA is attacking the police. So I make it clear that I honor and respect the police, I honor and respect especially the simple police officer who is trying to exercise his role in difficult circumstances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I won't need much time. I worked together while I was Minister and found the competent officials and capabilities of the police, but to stop this myth that the New Democracy is the protectors of the police and we are the ones who are against the police. We have submitted reports and questions for a year on simple issues - in some we have not even received answers - concerning the operation of the police, concerning the specifications of the services vehicles of the EL.AS., the installation of fixed unbreakable glazing, the sub-station of the police departments of Drapetsonas, Keratiniou, Salamis, along with Mr Ragosi and other Members and a number of other issues for which we do not have answers. As we have also not received any answers to the requests of the Commercial Association of Nice, which people are asking to have law and order in the area and the request is even bigger after the station is running.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u339	I'm closing with a phrase, Madam President. Yes, law and order, Minister, but please note very much and see, when this bill is over, that strange story with the quarry in Salamis, where it seems that strong business and intertwined interests do not allow law and order to exist. So, look what's just going on, so you don't have to come over some tapes after a few years and prove exactly what's going on with certain executives there. Thank you very much for your time. The bill will definitely be passed at night, but you can be sure it will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u340	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Seedakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the republics everyone has the same rights and obligations. And rights aren't classified. Of course, the right to assemble is indiscriminate, but it is not higher than the right to work, free movement, security, property. All these rights are just as important and inalienable and are constitutionally guaranteed. And when one attempts to violate or restrict the rights of another, then the state has an obligation to bring him back to order and if he does not comply, to function preventively, even repressively. Because, yes, in democracy, repression is institutionalised and it is institutionalised precisely to protect the rights of citizens. If a democracy does not have such a potential, there would be no democracy. The substance of the bill is, therefore, precisely to regulate the proper functioning of the state, so that everyone can exercise and enjoy their rights without hindrance. And instead of those who cut themselves off for individual rights to lead their defence, they speak of a junta. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen: is it a junta of the government that it does not allow minority voters to be imposed on the majority? Is the government's junta trying to protect everyone's self-evident right to work, to study, to relax, to shop, to go for a walk in comfort and security, and is it not a hunchful perception that everyone should be forced every few minutes and a little to tolerate the revolutionary exercise that some professional activists impose on them? These must be completed and there must be rules in harmonious coexistence of all within a coordinate state. And we're talking about common rules, we don't start very much. What they do in all the advanced states, what they do in all the democracies of the West, in which - fortunately - we belong, we also want to do here. In all modern democracies when a meeting is decided, a demonstration, a protest, there is compulsory consultation with the police. The police are giving permission and the police are constantly supervising the protest, in close consultation with the leader of the protesters, so that the protest is not offended, not to obstruct the exercise of the rights of the dissidents. Aren't their right not to want to be written? The state's obligation isn't to safeguard their rights? The head is not only necessary for consultation. It is also necessary to assume responsibility in the event of a misappropriation. You can't want to protest, but don't want to take on the responsibility and responsibility of any consequences of your protest. And I would first of all expect those who seem more aware of the right to protest to claim and seek responsibility. After some people are proud to be in the lead in the protest, I would also expect them to take responsibility for any damage and misconduct. But, ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned about this kind of reaction. Why do some respond to taking responsibility? Why are they not exemplified by the example of the JRC responsible for safeguarding its own protests? Is it just their ideological subconsciousness that doesn't recognize the concept of responsibility? Because of course, as we've experienced you so far, it's never your fault. It's always someone else's fault. Or are they hiding something? Or maybe even worse, they're planning something else? Because, Minister, if they are planning provocations and supposedly revolutions, you will allow me to worry. I am concerned, because there are good indications that they will not be confined to plans. They can implement the designs. I'm worried, if you'll be asked to deal with internal security issues. Does the state have the legal arsenal to allow security forces to carry out their work effectively? Your knowledge and determination to observe the order that is the prerequisite for our democracy to function reassurances me. I am absolutely certain that in a later phase, if you find that this bill is not enough to deal with an organized and prepared warfare of rebellion, you will not hesitate to update the legal arsenal so that the police and therefore the state will not be defenseless against minorities who want to be forceful on the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u342	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece now has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u343	You dared to get out of your drawers this infamous draft law on limiting demonstrations and bringing it to the House to vote on it. But laugh if you think this monstrosity will eventually be implemented. As you took it off, you'll put it back in your drawers, even as a law adopted. You will be forced by the workers, by the Greek people who will actually cancel it. And don't be democratically sensitive and affected when we tell you that. A glimpse in history will convince you of what is true and effective. And we do not mean those affected only of the old peculiarity of the early decades of the last century. The pretext then was the brooks. Those who supported the peculiar name were also oversimplified by their democratic so - called opinions and sensitations. Of course, before a elite speaks three, they filled up with the vegetation and imprisonment with fighters with the law on animal cloaking, which is now known as the peculiar name. Since then their party has been carrying this great shame in history. But why are you bringing in the draft law limiting - in fact - the ban on - demonstrations? All that we say is that you are supposed to put order in the protests, let them say your various "pads" who have taken a job to convince him of his necessity. Don't be exposed any more. The draft law unravels you. It is the proof that anti-grass policy will escalate in the face of the new capitalist crisis. You yourself have had to admit that it will be a deep crisis that will be reloaded to the workers, to the popular layers, just as you did with the previous one. You know very well that the anti-government measures you have taken in the quarantine with the legislative acts are not enough for you and your friends. It will be followed by a new anti-grassroots package with measures which, of course, are neither temporary nor fair burden-sharing measures, as you are mocking, as was not the Memorandum of Understanding which all of you voted for. And let Mr Mitsotakis say that he will not accept strict conditions which will refer to memorials and the troika, on the European Recovery Fund, in order to reassure the people. There is no need to impose new anti-grassroots measures and reforms on you. You'll do it yourself. It's on your schedule. So, now, the reforms, that is, the tools that will load the burdens of the crisis on the workers, to protect only the profitability and competitiveness of large businesses, will be your inspiration. You can enjoy having the seal of your own government. The new packages of the European Union, on which you celebrate, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but also you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, will be directed to large businesses. But they will be paid by the pockets of the Greek people and by increasing taxation and by reducing the social costs of education, health and welfare. Because, as your Com munity partners are provoking, there is no free meal in the European Union. The bill - an abortion to curb the demonstrations - is the proof to whom the bill of measures will be sent: to workers and the people. At the same time, however, it is also a confession of your government. You admit your concern that workers, small professionals, poor farmers, young children will not be left with crucifix hands measuring new losses. The main thing is, however, that the bill for limiting - essentially the ban on demonstrations serves your strategic objective, the defence of a bankrupt system, cannot give way to the needs of the people. The question about the farm system is growing and this cannot be halted by any ideological manipulation mechanism. Concern and action on the search for an alternative will grow. That's why you're arming your patron with new weapons. That is why you want to legalise mechanisms and measures already in place in other countries. And if this were to be delayed, this was thanks to the great contribution of the organized class movement and the Communist Party of Greece. That is why the monstrosity you are currently preparing to legitimise - of course only typically - provides for the introduction of more advanced and therefore more dangerous mechanisms of State repression and terrorism. The New Democracy bill aims at any progressive, radical ideology and act, even bringing radicalism into the same bag with various existing forms of violence, such as domestic or intra-school violence. Indeed, it provides for the establishment of a competent agency - Violence Prevention Directorate - which will promote radicalisation. What does that mean? That you are building, gentlemen, a modern ideological, repressive, scrambled mechanism that will intercede from schools to universities, in cooperation with state and non-state authorities. And to have a good question, what are these non-state authorities? Are there any NGOs and a number of suspicious institutions? They're security companies? And what exactly will that mechanism do? The answer is that this mechanism will have the task of slandering, criminalising the action of anyone who resists, fights, disputes, clashes with the current dictatorship of capital. Because this is precisely the radical action that is bothering you and with which you want to get it over with. But this policy is not your originality, Mr New Democracy. For all you can stalk is that you are her most fanatical supporter and this is one of your differences with others. Because criminalisation of radical ideology and action is an official European Union policy. And on the basis of this theory, as is the unequivocal equation of fascism and communism, in a number of countries the criminalisation of the action of popular movements and communist parties is promoted. Do you want to remind you how the European Union itself defines radicalisation in its official texts? Why don't you tell us, of course, you don't know. You know, and you're out of your mind, but you don't dare say it in here. The European Union is putting fascists, fanatical Islamics and those who are struggling to radically overthrow the present system. It says attributes: "The supporters of radicalized left-wing ideologies reject the capitalist values, which they consider to be the main cause of social inequality. They have highly criticised the multinational military and economic regulations, such as NATO and the International Monetary Fund, are opposed to the growing privatisation of education, health, transport and so on." This is what the European Union defines in its official texts as radicalism. Could you tell us in our country who they are? Are they working unions, unions, teachers' associations, health, seafarers and other workers' branches? But this is the European Union, the so-called paradise of democracy. In fact, six months ago this reactionary European Union in its annual report officially placed popular protests at risk of safety. Do you want to remind you what you voted for? Because some of you pretend to be amnesia. New Democracy and KINAL voted in favour, SYRIZA voted for a white vote. Here, then, why SYRIZA and KINAL stand only on fungible copyings, react to the provisions that they make for their reactivity, but leave the ideological core of this bill to the unpredictable one on which all the rest is founded. We watched SYRIZA and KINAL fight for the period of post-multipleation for the paternity of social contracts. We could ignore the fight between the new and the old social democracies, but because we are not in the 1980s, but in 2020, we are telling you this: If our people had some conquests, this could also be because of the rise of the labour movement and because there was a different overall correlation of power with the existence of socialism that they had to make in some concessions. But all this, which our people have conquered, you have taken back one by one, all of you! And you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and you gentlemen of SYRIZA and KINAL. So our people can be won not when they are bound by social contracts, but when they decide to break them. Your monstrosity, gentlemen of the New Democracy, puts not general rules on concentrations, as you are mocking, but new provocative, reactionary restrictions, far beyond those of the existing Constitution, and even before your laws. Is it or is it not a challenge to stipulate that concentrations in public services, ministries and others are, from the outset, prohibited and may be banned in other cases, such as when they are carried out without notification to the authorities or if the protesters do not comply with the restrictions? To tell us, are the tourist and food workers who have been unemployed, and these days they are constantly asking to meet your Minister, Mr. Brutsis, have they or have they no right to protest outside the Ministry of Labour? Where do you want them to go to get to meet with him and provide a minimum income for all those who are still hanging and who are fighting real for their survival? Probably at the BSE office. Maybe there, of course, they'll find him easier. She's having dinner with them to get a line, you see. The artistic teachers who are cutting them off the new curriculum in high school and high school, why can't they protest outside the Ministry of Education? Where do you want to go? Outside college to find your Minister, or don't you just want to spoil the turmoil of its anti-educational political practice? Do you not know how exceptional events by themselves can force workers to move directly and even without even preventing them from making known to the authorities a protest, a demonstration of them? Tell us, when in a workplace of work there is an accident, a worker is killed, are his colleagues or are they entitled to protest at the same time outside a service, a ministry, to protest about the lack of health and safety measures? What are you waiting for? First to register their application to give them permission if they're right to protest about the crime? And don't tell us again that there are no accidents at work every day, because you are causing not only us, but you are causing the workers themselves who have lost many of their colleagues, but also the families of the wronged workers. You know very well that today there are workers, such as the "LARCO workers" who leave for work and don't know if they'll be home alive. Because you and the previous ones led the company to such a depreciation, so that you could deliver it to private individuals. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece is ringing at this point.]] To tell us, what are the spontaneous concentrations that can only be carried out for events of social importance? This "social importance" who will define it and on what criteria? Is the protest to cancel an auction on the residence of a people's family? Is it socially important to mobilise the inhabitants of a region why is it not a carnival road in their area that has cost human lives? Is it or is it not socially important that the spontaneous mobilisation in a town hall of the students of a school that has no heating and students are forced in 2020 to learn in the cold? In view of all this, who will ultimately determine and on what criteria whether a concentration will be banned? You are answering us, firstly, the police, who are given the power to ban or dismantle a gathering or demonstration, secondly, the Port Authority, which will also be used against popular mobilisation, even by expanding its repressive role. In fact, you are giving the leadership of the police either to ban a concentration with a small number of protesters, because it is supposed to cause disproportionately the scale of the suffering, or to ban a massive concentration on the grounds, for example, that the center of Athens will be closed for a very long time. How will the police's leadership expect this to happen beforehand? They're gonna throw the papers like the paperwork, or they're gonna hire cafés to know how many people will come down to protest? You're probably going to have to hire the police, since, as we read in your bill, the police can take steps, and if criminal offences are seriously committed. Beyond all these reactive substances contained in this legislative abstention, the most serious is the civil responsibility of the organiser, who will have the responsibility for compensation for anyone entering a concentration or, on the occasion of a concentration, cause damage. So what are you telling us? That, for example, the organiser, a trade union, possibly a student club or a school board, namely the president of the club, the president of a student club, a 15-member school board, will have the responsibility for any damage that the various bachalakis, i.e. the so-called "famous-unknown" provocators, i.e. the well-known, in the state mechanisms, can cause, in the end, things with their name? So what are you gonna do? Will you wrap up a paper fighters and drag them into court? To prove what exactly? What everyone in this country knows is that the organized people's movement, the youth organizations have nothing to do with the provocative mechanisms. Because the only ones involved in these mechanisms are only the state itself and the parastate within it. With what you are going to vote not only do not prevent the provocation, but you throw water on the mill of its production. What did you say to this day, gentlemen of the New Democracy? What were your sluts mixing? That, when the various provocators cause shop damage, the liability of the compensation shall be borne by the organizers of the concentration during which the damages were made, i.e. the presidents of a club, a federation, etc. If that is not the institutional legitimacy of provocation and social automation, then what is it? If that doesn't arm and at the same time acquits the provocators, then what does it do? What exactly are you doing? Quite simply, you put the carpet on the various pre-vocatarian elements that may cause incidents at a concentration, of course, in order either to dissolve the concentration or to eliminate morally and economically the organisers, who, according to your bill, also have the objective responsibility for the pre-votorial action of these elements. You did, in fact, have the nerve to confirm that this is exactly what you are pursuing through your rapporteur, who in the Committee on Parliament, has prompted you to charge the massive mobilisations of 2010 and the organisers of the assassination of Marfin's workers, who were the tragic victims of a very well-organised provocational plan, with the aim of mainly hitting mass strikes at that time. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we have been following you all these days trying to defend your reactionary bill with various, even ridiculous arguments of a very old cut. For example, your attempt to forge it as a safeguard for the traders, who suffer mainly or exclusively from the constant movement of goods, as you say, in the center of Athens, something that no longer convinces anyone. Professionals know very well who led them and who led them to their dead ends today. They know who's already smuggled their competitive incomes and led them to overcompensation to banks, to the public, to the nightmare of seizures, to auctions. Your government voted and enriched the anti-Hallian arsenal used against them: Taxation from the first euro, carpets such as the trade fee, confiscations for debts of EUR 500, the insurance abortion of Brutsi - Katrugalou, the gradual lifting of the Sunday holiday and the list has no end. But also the misguided argument of branchers, known to them, of various urban planning, that mobilisations paralyse the centre and the market, remains completely perforated. Tell us: The two thousand, mainly small businesses that put a lock on the five years 2011-2016, closed down because of the mobilisations, or because of the economic capitalist crisis and the memorandum policies that accompanied it? Is it because the micromass boasts flies and closes after each other in Kipseli, Kolonos, Gyzis, as in other cases, is it the protests or the domination of large chains of supermarkets in the market and the cracked people's income? Stop that pussy now. Your bill has already welcomed large-scale hostels, stores, chains of the center, which slowly, but constantly concentrate on the commercial movement of the area and applaud "touristic odors" and "big walks". They require a ban on protests and a cemetery silence, not the professionals on the other side, who are often forced to protest for their rights, and they know that when they have income, their money is being put on their hands to buy their goods by men and women of the people's families, who are workers, officials, scientists, self-employed, professionals, other farmers, pensioners, women, that is to say all those who protest and claim. We hear you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, saying that the bill is not about the organized concentrations of the PAF, the JRC. But the exact concentration of the class labor movement is targeting the bill. Who, then, is targeting? The fewer mobilizations of government GSEE, where some tens are photographed in a square, are making statements on the channels and then scattering around the 50 people who are fast-tracking all the way? Where did you see that? Only yours, the trade unions gather so many. Nor, of course, do you mean in the bill the fifty buffaloes, who at intervals play robbery in Exarcheia or some other neighborhoods with the police. Only that's what we all know, not exactly what we see. The game of the cat and mouse play in the narrow. The regulations of the bill include the gatherings of political parties. Don't act like you don't understand. You understand very well, too. Where you're talking about the purpose of the gathering, you're talking about it exactly. So from where and yet, will the state, police, judge judge judge judge judge the purpose of a gathering that makes a political party? Why are you doing this? You do, I say again, because you are working with a plan, with your strategy, so that on a path the state can come and say that this purpose of concentration, because it is against NATO, against the European Union, against capitalism, is not in line with the country's Constitution, so it is dangerous and the concentration must be banned. That is why you are putting the purpose of the gathering, which concerns - and we say again - political parties. The truth, then, is that the protests are being put in total. Besides, your own bill from his title already makes it clear that public meetings are aimed. He speaks neither of the few - time meetings of some, nor of the meetings of some biscuits and proponents of the movement. The bill, therefore, aims precisely at mass and organised demonstrations. They and their content disturb you, because it does not suit your system and your class. The others, the few of them, make use of them every time to slander only the organized class-based folk movement, as you have done with the bill. Of course, it's funny to think that the brats will disappear, because the police will ask for the organizer's evidence and the request list to authorize their protest. Of course, the gentlemen of the government are well aware that the step forward in the repression they are attempting with this bill would have been temporary if no other steps had been taken and, more specifically, those of the SYRIZA government. You see, the continuity of the state also applies here. Who has made progress in limiting the strike right, even in the name of again the unacceptable logic of minorities who are afflicting them? Who voted to convert the mobilisations against the auctions into a specific offence? Who has maintained the unacceptable legal arsenal of the 'terrorists', made to wrap people up in a paper glue, despite the JRC's proposals for their abolition? Your government, gentlemen of SYRIZA. To all of you, gentlemen of the New Democrat Republic, and your extremists who make cups and only to listen to a gathering, we tell you again that we are not going to relieve you of this suffering. Since the oppressed began to fight against injustice, one thing applies, and the lyrics from a song of the anti-Digital struggle: "On the streets will be judged the right, on the streets the satrapi will be judged, from the cruelty he will grow, the ninth stem of love." Ladies and gentlemen, history is full of laws that they have experienced, of laws that they wanted to put class struggle, radical thinking and action on plaster. Eventually, all of them, zero apart, stayed on paper. These papers may be useful for another, but use by the people, by the wrongful and oppressed of this place, where such laws really belong, in the garbage or on the leaning of history, if you want. The true story we are proud of and will be both our children and our grandchildren, is the one written in the fields of class battles, it is the story written by mass popular protests, large mass rallying on the streets of Athens, on the streets of Greece. These mobilisations, against the peculiarities and prohibitions, are the ones that promoted forward democracy, progress, freedom, they have kept the flame of the struggle, sacrifice, dignity. On this road we will continue unforgettablely, and as a JRC we will be ahead as always.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u344	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Constantine Blouchos from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we look at the present we probably have to consider. What are we experiencing today? We are experiencing the rhetoric of the oppressed by some democracy and the exploitation of the complex of democracies of many. They are post-government prisoners both, who cannot blur critical thinking today, at least those who have not done it - are ideologically or self-sufficiently trapped - castrated politically. We simply ask: Why do some people say in favour of inalienable rights mean only theirs and not the rights of others? Is ‘partial rights’ or ‘if applicable rights’? And anyway, what happens to the rights of the rest? Because strong statements and fanaticism of the "we will effectively abolish the rights of all and the general interest in the altar of the over-protective protection of extremist rights of self-rights. Does it mean an extension of the limits of rights beyond the socio-cultural and worthwhile acquis? Yes, any extremist application of or claiming jurisdictions without consideration and a sense of general interest, social peace and cohesion are supposedly destructive. The application of our rights requires two-way bridges. They're not parallel oneways. Today with its rhetorical right to emit, choosing to use the vocabulary of fundamental rights, you are probably undermining it. Why? Because you seem to understand the citizen as if he were in a state of endless adolescent calling for canalisation and control. SYRIZA’s rhetoric on the occasion of this bill took delusional proportions. The essential dimension between the rhetoric you choose for the practicable realities is probably psychotic and obviously paralytic for a mediocre political proposal to once get rid of the depression that has caused us years of the image of our major cities. The historical regressive course of your speech today bears witness to the failure and demolition of the Left. When, then, the certainty of "all allowed" was the result of a hestrate and demonicly intelligent strategy, now it is outdated pseudomimismism. In the context of an expanded allowability, therefore, any right to mobilise by groups of minimum, any path, any demonstration, occupation of buildings, the exclusion of road arteries appears to be a self-evident right to resistance to an adversarial state by definition. It was never of interest if this resistance was extremely selfish or brutally antisocial. But innocent people were charred. They were looted, destroyed, fired private property of fighting and sweating simple people, school and university facilities. This grim reality outweighs every limit of political tolerability. This legislative effort was necessary and necessary, neither an abortion nor an abortion, nor a monarchy, nor the other relevant ones you have given it. But also the threat that it will be abolished by the next progressive government is an empty meaning, and that is so simple. This government is simply changing the data. He is rebellious because he is talking to civil society. The state has demonstrated in the last six months that it is here, that it is next to the citizen. The people have grown up because we have now passed to common sense, we have gone through the revolution of the self-evident of a coordinate state, and that is why you are terrorizing. This verbal and constructed anachronism was also a part - or rather the main factor - of our decline in our post-government years. You don't see. You're unrecognizable political myths. You are not watching that the gap in the state and institutions with civil society is bridging and there is now synergy. Against the biscious and vengeful spirit of jurisdictions, now institutionalisation is socialised because the state listens to civil society. The relief of common sense has come up. That's what unravels you because you won't be able to respond to your revolutionary outdated knives. You want a society to enemy the state, the state and the institutions. We - and this is our warning difference - are seeking the formation of society with the state. And no more invoking the malicious version of this, which was the malignant fragmentation. Look for your lost socialism and perhaps you will contribute constructively to everyone's democratic effort. We are now choosing the state of citizens and not the nationals, the society of relations, and not the indifferent self-determination of terrorism. To your surprise and inconvenience we have now acquired as a country of strong and neurological politics, not politically. The current government shows incredible adaptability, flexibility and retrograde, depending on the reading of reality. Uses and applies tools without ideological barriers. The state is here, she hears, she speaks to society. It's a shame to be deaf for a political yacht. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u346	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Savvas Snowides from New Democracy has the floor now. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Theodoros Rousopoulos will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u347	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing is something that is deeply democratic and deeply necessary for the functioning of our society, for a democratic society: the protection of individual and social freedoms and, in particular, for the eve of its assembly, in accordance with Article 11 of the current constitution. In our case, we have good legislature practices once again by this ministry, following all the procedures of consultation, of full operation, as requested by a party in this House, so that we can put forward our views in a way that is very democratic, clean and transparent, just as it is appropriate on such major issues. It's a good piece of legislation when we have a holistic attitude. Once again, we find that within sixteen articles and seventeen pages, in the face of a mess of legislation in force, we consistently and accurately capture what constitutes the institutional framework. I have not heard anyone in this Chamber saying that we do not need an institutional framework for guaranteeing a democratic process. Many talked about law and order. I'll talk about logic and democracy. As defined in the Constitution, there is no law and order that refers to - framed words - but logic and democracy. It is therefore necessary to have an institutional framework, and it was inconsistent. What I want to stress is my great pleasure first for an article, Article 21. I was relieved by the abolition of all the existing rules. I listened with regret to my colleague to say that this law was inactive. Does the Greek Parliament have to speak of inactive laws? A law whether it is in force or not. Or is it the ‘sleeping law’ which we use on a case-by-case basis and when it suits? So it is not and it is a pity that the Greek people hear that there are inactive laws. Here I am presenting my position in this Chamber. If there are such legislation that attracts its origin from an old age and is inactive - I do not know any particular one - we should finally get into a certain order after so many years. This law, too, gives some tens of thousands of acres, the prohibited areas, where the law and Royal Decree of 168/1972 are forbidden, because in five hundred twenty - eight spaces throughout Greece, some tens of thousands of acres, in twenty - six cities, were banned. For example, as I see the President here, the former Prime Minister, in Patras, said that he was banned on the road of 21 April and that was tolerated by Parliament over all these years. So it's a law, which puts the authorities in. There may be reservations, it's clear. There are different ideological origins. From there on, the question is, if there is reason and democracy. That's the point. We also heard that we do not really trust the Greek police. We remember the Greek police of the past few years, the junta. Today they are children who work, who are educated people, with legal knowledge, who do not do things in their head and apply the law, knowing that they will have side effects from the wrong possible assessment of a prosecutor or judge. I therefore think that we should have more confidence in the Greek Police, because as they go through tests at the Law School, so they go into the Police School now, so that we can have an even higher level. In conclusion, I would like to stress something very important. This law, this legal framework, the institutional framework that is being done, will help greater participation. I will not repeat many times that we are spoiling shops or spoiling commercial traffic or anything else. That's true, too. However, this law will also enable greater participation in the popular movement, in terms of freedom, logic and democracy. More involvement of the world in all demonstrations, when there is a specific legal framework. It is therefore in the positive direction, in the logical democratic expression of the world, and does not commit anyone and nothing, particularly the minorities that we should look after even more. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u348	Thank you. Mr Rusopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Madam President. Recently I was reading a phrase by Norberto Bobby, which I did not know about. He said that the right to protest was one of the prerequisites for democracy. Who can take the opposite view of this? The European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right to protest and to a free meeting. Our Constitution is the same. The Council of Europe has recently, about a year and a half ago, in February 2019, in addition to the recognition of all that I have just said, underlines the fact that the police, often targeted by some protesters, operates in difficult circumstances. At the same time, every type of violence against people or their property is being condemned by violent protesters who invade the various demonstrations of protest to cause problems on purpose. It is therefore clear from the outset that we are faced with a complex exercise of balance between the right to protest and the right to free movement, protection of property and social peace. What is true in other countries? The evidence was heard by a number of colleagues and Sofia Vultish gave details yesterday. I won't repeat it. I will only say for two countries of the European Union, one of the largest in Europe now, after one has left the Union. In the United Kingdom, the organizer of a course is obliged to report to the police six days earlier. It declares a date, time and specific route - if we can say so - of the course, names and addresses of the organisers. At the same time, the police may modify or restrict the route and place another condition. Furthermore, it can change the location of the course in general, its duration, and even the number of citizens involved in it. In Germany the doormakers must declare their conduct two days earlier, or forty - eight hours earlier. In fact, the authorities can forbid a course there if they consider that it poses a threat to public order and security. Such arrangements exist in Spain, which 10 days before names and organization are announced, in France, Italy, Portugal and Sweden. What this bill does, for which almost half of the Members have already spoken, is that it essentially adopts good practices from other countries on the European continent, the European Union and achieves the best balance between the two rights that I have mentioned. I will not go along with the sterile controversy, recalling things that we all know about the recent past and how the previous government has promised too much on this issue, with the dissolution of MATs, a ban on using special forces, a ban on using chemicals, and so on, it has done nothing of this or rather the opposite. One can still smell the chemicals in the courtyard of the Parliament and perhaps half of Athens, as we all remember some time ago. Later on, when the Prespes rallys had taken place, I will recall that the protesters were characterized as dangerous, extreme, fascist and so on. I'm not going to talk to Professor Alivizato. The Prime Minister was particularly detailed at noon. The article by Professor Alivizatou and other constitutionalists actually leads to the conclusion that, correctly and correctly, this government is in application of the specific article of the Constitution that brings this piece of legislation. I will only say that and I will close sooner. Some time ago from 1-7-2020 to 3-7-2020 a week ago, there was a survey of "OPINION POLL" which was also done in a sample quite large. It's a thousand eighty-four people. We all know that a sample of over seven hundred and fifty people is considered particularly precise. In this regard, therefore, the opinion of SYRIZA fans on the bill brought by the Government of New Democracy and Minister Chrysochoidis is 23.1% positive and 11.3% rather positive. In other words, positive and rather positive opinions are close to 35%. The negative opinion is 52% and those who do not respond to 13%. I understand that colleagues are sadly concerned after almost half a century of established democracy that the right to protest, to concentration, to the other point of view is at stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Papandreou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again faced with issues that define the quality of our democracy and with respect for democratic processes. The way we legislate and the way we exercise power is a decisive measure for the quality of democracy. It will either deepen democracy on the one hand and - I would say - the culture of democracy or strengthen social cohesion by causing new and unnecessary pluralisms. This second has already happened on its own, which is an essential reason for reservations on the draft law. The bill, as it was introduced, limited and restricted the right of assembly regardless of how it would end up with any improvements or amendments. Eventually, the climate got stronger, it once again led to divisive controversy. Reactions from civil society, organised bodies, workers, scientists, prosecutors, lawyers, prove that serious consultation has not taken place. And despite the brave attitude of the Change Movement and Mrs Gennimata to pursue a creative approach, proving that she is seeking responsible dialogue, the bill remains on the basis of the anti-democratic. In other words, the consultation procedure goes hand in hand with the substance. First of all, the right to a meeting is a basic right of every democratic culture. I too am referring, Mr Russopoulou, to the Council of Europe where our country is chairing these months. It is an organisation for defending democratic principles and the Venice Commission as an advisory body of the Council of Europe expressly states that freedom of a peaceful assembly is a basic human right for all and every group of citizens. In the specific text which I shall be tabling in the Minutes, it adds that the freedom of a peaceful assembly should be able to be exercised by any means or, as far as possible, minimum regulations or restrictions. Common law - says - should be enough. There should be no need to request permission for meetings. Will you, of course, rightly ask: "Some rules need to be introduced so that the right of meetings is maintained in full and there is no lasting inconvenience and indeed in the centre of the capital?" No one can counter that. But there is a substantial difference of understanding between us. A democratic state is not called upon to restrict the right but to safeguard the right, to protect it together and to protect the integrity of those involved in the peaceful demonstration. That's a start-up difference. Its deepest meaning is that in a country with a democratic culture, the different view not only is respected but is necessary - I stress it - that is necessary for society to move forward. It is necessary to tackle injustices and inequality. It is necessary to show new innovative ideas many times and provocative ideas. Ideas that may be disturbing, shocking that may hurt and that we must respect in political dialogue, as well as the right to a meeting. It may, yes, occasionally disturb some. But is this so-called discomfort nothing but the right to express a different opinion, the right of the citizen to know that his voice ultimately counts, the right to express the pain, the sense of injustice or hope that ultimately ends in a democratic culture instead of being criminalised, should be a fertile ground for reflection and social change? It is useful, therefore, to make this discomfort. No, of course violence - one another, the other - but the different voice that each one of us can provoke. And let us cause us to listen to her and think about her, not drown her. Of course, I fully understand the other dimension of things, the problems caused by the city's operation, economic life, and small and medium-sized enterprises that are often being affected. This dimension is also respected and shows the need for some rules, but not a restriction on a right but of regulations that will make it respected on one side and on the other. So if there were to be a law for meetings, he should above all protect the peaceful demonstrator, protect him from arbitraryness, both the prisoners and third parties. And I'm not talking about the police that just executes, but about the prisoners of authority about how they exercise it. This would show another attitude of authority, and it would also be a guarantee of any rules regarding meetings. I believe that this bill, instead of protecting the peaceful demonstration, limits it even criminalises it. You'll tell me: How? First of all, the prisoners can ban a peaceful demonstration according to the bill. That's what the law says. But you will tell me that this is not your intention to ban protests. Let me accept that it is not the intention of the current Minister, let me still accept that it is not the intentions of the current government. In any case, that will be obvious. But the laws stay. Laws are the framework within which power moves. And this law gives the right to the individual authority to stop, with various thoughts, even a peaceful demonstration, even a party gathering. In other words, superpowers are being given which undermine fundamental democratic rights for the individual prisoners. Secondly, the debate, together with the bill, is confusing violence and violence with peaceful demonstration. He does, by making those who peacefully protest responsible for acts of violence likely to happen. I consider this provision unacceptable. Firstly, because it incriminates the concept of peaceful demonstration indirectly but clearly. Second, it brings me to mind a strong childhood memory. At the grand gatherings of the Association of Centres on an adventurous struggle and Georgios Papandreou, he ended his speech with a small but important phrase: "Stop quietly." Why? Why that phrase? Because the great Democratic Party and I would say that the vast majority of the Greek people, when they protest, want to protest peacefully. This is our democratic tradition. She hasn't been legislated. It was adopted as our basic democratic practice. It is deeply engraved in our democratic culture. It's in the Democrat Order DNA. It didn't take any law to convince us. But we knew very well that the then paradox and other extreme right elements were intended to smash the image of a grand peaceful demonstration. In other words, they always wanted to promote these peaceful demonstrations. Today with this law, with the organization's civil responsibility, do you know what you achieve? Reveal those who peacefully protest. Do in this regard those who peacefully exercise the right to meet hostages of each provocator. Do you know what else you'll achieve? Those who, in fact, want to provoke - extreme, para-stated wrestlers - are giving them one more incentive. You are essentially giving every provocator the power to create a problem with the right to meet the citizens in fear that there will be a provocator. The provocator is criminalised and prevented by the organizer from a peaceful demonstration. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am saying is not just a theory, but a practice that I have always followed. I've always wanted to protect the right to freedom and at a price many times. My personal path and political path demonstrate that I strongly defended rights and have always wanted to contribute to the consolidation of rights, even if this was done in a difficult environment, or at times when the common understanding was not ready to accept them, even the parties, even my own party, when, for example, I was talking about the decriminating of the cannabis user or the free expression long before the arrival of the non-state radio and television or even the need to guarantee transparency, accountability to public life. When I was not at the wheel of the country in the most difficult times, having the greatest demonstrations of postpopulation, I never tried to limit the right to the meeting. My concern was to defend democracy by protecting the function of the House, which many people then squeezed down, but also to not mourn any victims because of the tensions of the indignant citizens. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] And, unfortunately, many people who are being cut for democracy today, like the SYRIZA side, contributed - unfortunately - to the cultivation of a climate, which, if not anything, closed their eyes to violence, and this climate, we lived on our shoulder by acts of supposedly revolutionary, but essentially the undermining of our democracy, because there cannot be violence and democracy together, because they are two concepts that are incompatible. Some who regard violence as a revolutionary right cannot be regarded as democrats. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will give me two more minutes, Mr President. I'm done. I would point out, however, that if your law were to apply then, the one you brought to Parliament, the Marfin case and the victims of the protests, namely New Democracy, SYRIZA, the KKE, the Golden Dawn and the LAOS. Think about it. I'm closing up with an arrogant prediction. This bill, instead of regulating and protecting the protesters and life in the center of Athens, will achieve the opposite. The complex bureaucratic bans and rules will be questioned in practice. You will create an inappropriate polarisation when we need to deepen social cohesion, that is, now that the country's major problems, the functioning of democracy and institutions, and the major challenges of the present and future, such as pandemic, unemployment, climate crisis, all require dialogue between political forces, social partners, even cooperation, and most importantly a new social agreement leading us to a better and most importantly different future, free of intentions, customer perceptions and practices. With these thoughts because it is never too late, I invite you to think again and in the general interest of the country this whole matter. At this very moment, I suggest that you withdraw the bill, that there should be a dialogue in depth, consultation and agreement with the parties and the social partners. You are even sending it to the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, which has as its main objective the evaluation of such legislation, even now that Greece is also in the Presidency of the Council of Europe, so that a respected regulation from all of us is also the big step for a different next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. Mr. Loverdos has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u353	Mr President, thank you very much. If I were told that I should put something in the title of today's debate, I would say that I have nothing to put into it. Professor Antonis Manitakis gave a title to our debate a few days ago in the newspaper "TA NEWS": "The right of protesters and the rights of others". I do not think there is a more appropriate title for what we are discussing here today on all sides. As the President of the Change Movement said, with the improvements made to the draft law by our own creative proposals, Mr Kamine and the colleagues who took the floor, we already have four major changes: the President of the primates - he did not have the government - is involved with a crucial role - he did not have the government - and the government did not have it - he did not have it - and there is no illegality for those demonstrations that have not been notified under the law. On the basis of these principles, which are principles because of institutional guarantees, the legitimate exercise of a democratic right, we are voting 'yes' in the first place and we are voting against any provisions that we do not agree with. We demarcate, Mr President, a right as a Parliament of the Greeks and that has been our obligation since 1974, which, unfortunately, has not been implemented until now. To avoid misunderstandings, I would like to make it clear to this House what our Constitution says, which we all praise. What exactly defines our Constitution, which no one thought to call for its revision a few months ago, when we reviewed the Constitution and did not touch on Article 11(2). Ladies and gentlemen, Article 11(2) is stricter than the law which, through the changes, votes for the Change Movement and I want you to listen to the provision: ‘Outdoor meetings may be prohibited by a reasoned decision of the police authority, in general, if there is a serious risk to public security in a certain area if there is a serious disturbance in socio-economic life as defined by the law’. There are no guarantees here from other state organs. The police are talking about Article 11(2). But the democratic pre-interpretation theory, on the basis of which a democratic citizen reads this article, obviously imposes additional guarantees, guarantees that will weight and harmonise the rights of people, protesters and others. The designation of these legislative interventions as "inspiring" by some people, was described by Professor Nikos Alvizatos in his article in the "KATHMERINI OF KYRIKIS" as "political atrocity". I think Professor Alivizatos is not far from reality. That is why we call 'yes' to the inalienable right of assembly. As Minister of Foreign Affairs of George Papandreou, who was personally preoccupied by my trade unionists and not, who had days when I could not work and resorted to my car or to various benches in Athens, I never thought, Mr President - and I did not have such a chance from the Prime Minister - to ask for the protester to be persecuted, even if he was violent. Today, as a lawyer, I defend them, because SYRIZA officials sued them every once and for all. The dialogue should take place on real terms, based on reality and not on allegedly abstract arrests of a reality that does not exist. Yes, well, with large letters in the inalienable right of assembly! Yes to the rights of protesters, obviously! And as a democratic party we have this in practice proved. Yes, but also to the rights of others, and not, as Albizat says, to the dedication of living rhythm! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the experience of the Attica Centre beyond my parliamentary and political status and as an active lawyer. Morning, noon, no one can arbitraryly interrupt this city's rhythm. The rationalisation of a right to a bench, as Giorgos Kamines said, in all the Member States of the European Union, cannot leave Greece outside. Our just culture is based on texts and practice. The practice of all the democratic governments of the European Union - whether conservative parties govern, either liberal parties or social-democratic parties - has always been a criterion of harmonising the rights of demonstrators and, of course, of all others. Mr President, with regard to the issue of civil liability, which remains for us, we have tabled an amendment on this subject, which we do not want to vote on and we will not vote on the government regulation, perhaps - and in the comments from the Scientific Office of Parliament - there is something to improve. We believe, however, that the gaps that exist in this intervention leave open the possibility of a violent and to the detriment of democratic rights of implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, I still have two arguments with your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u356	A little time, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u357	I have two more, I'll finish, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u358	Time, I want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u359	I have two arguments. The argument that there is already regulation by the Presidential Decree 2013 is not in place. Anyone who knows both the area of protests and their treatment must know well that the settlement of a question from the sidewalk or always a lane of traffic, depending on size, when it does not regulate the issues of responsibility, is denied by the prosecution authorities, by the police to impose legislative regulations. Anyone who has participated in such demonstrations knows very well that the discomfort of state institutions often leads to the situation that the citizen of the centre of Athens, the citizen of Attica, experiences with rage. Those who believe it's time, on the basis of this draft law, to have all the arrangements our party has made, to say 'no', I understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u361	I'm done, Mr. President. One in three Greek citizens during the polls at the time we were ruling believed that we were being sprayed, one/3 of the Greek people believed, now, that COVID -19 is a product of artifacts that companies do to sell their products. Wanting to sell to these Greek citizens, despite all my respect for any human being, whatever view, I think they're fishing in bluish waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Papacostas Catherine from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after a year of reasoned decisions and actions of this government, we are today leading to the adoption of a draft law which, once again, aims at legality, civil protection and security, as well as the absolute application of the articles of the Constitution on public outdoor meetings. A anniversary year - you will allow me to say - a bill, which essentially complements the draft legislation on university asylum adopted by 9-8-2019. Intelligence and lawlessness when infiltrating citizens' activity must not continue to be protected and covered by a government which defends the unrestricted expression of human rights. This bill serves primarily to its superficial extent - I would say - the right of citizens to peaceful demonstration and protest, when this intention will not harm anyone and in any way harm the people present or present in this particular region where the meeting will take place. It also protects the right of those who are not part of it to continue their everyday life unreservedly, which is so self-evident, but for some unequivocal reason, it does not mean much to the colleagues of the Officerial Response. In your balance, troubles, violent events, aberrations grow more than maintaining a smooth process with measures and weights. That is what bothers you, ladies and gentlemen, the measures. You have no measure on what you are saying and therefore on what you are doing. In the end, however, your arguments are unclear and they break your positions and attitudes toward this bill. And it must be pointed out, of course, at this point that we are the first government to move forward in the process of abolishing the dictatorship 794/1971. We are abolishing it, ladies and gentlemen. What does that mean? We are again legislating on a different basis from this decree, because we are moving towards the regulation of the Constitution - as laid down in Article 11(1) and (2) - right to assembly and public outdoor meetings. It is also clear or better to you yesterday by canceling the objection of non-constitutionalism on the bill, which, with unspeakable arguments, has been defended by the distinguished legal and fellow Member, Mr Javaras, that there is no link between the junta and this bill, as well as its unconstitutionality. So since you have been the radical reformist Left with the occupation otherwise, how have you understood the existence and application of the 1971 Decree? It did not seem, of course, to have the intention when you were government to legislate on the framework of public outdoor meetings, nor did you seem to be disturbed by his existence. Do not, therefore, stand out today for your so-called democraticity. By clarifying the provisions of the bill as the beginning of the thread, we take the preservation and safeguarding of the right of assembly in public and outdoors. As provided for in Article 11 of the Constitution, this constitutional right must be exercised quietly and without weapons. If we take it, of course, that it is not the intention of those who want to demonstrate chaos or violent incidents, they should be satisfied with ensuring that this right and that freedom. We do not want to restrict constitutionally guaranteed freedom but to identify and promote it. On the other hand, given that access to a public space is necessary for the exercise of other constitutional rights such as freedom of movement, participation in economic life, the right to property, there is a question of harmonising the exercise of the right of assembly with many other rights, so that it can be limited and not prohibited from exercising the right of assembly. All individual rights, after all, are equal. In addition, this is the way society as a whole is satisfied and not in part. When one’s freedom begins where the other’s freedom stops, we cannot close our eyes at various meetings paralyzing city centers and many of them have as a result delegated acts. Everything will be done with respect for every individual right. But here I would like to stress that the purpose of the majority of the organizers of a meeting is not a bad and unpredictable conclusion. It is therefore a pretext that they will do the right thing and do not incur consequences and civic responsibilities. We must finally stop seeing with suspicion, negligence and party ideas anything that aims to improve social life. Today is the day when democracy enters before having we ensure the uninterrupted and uninterrupted exercise of constitutional rights. So when the historians of the future focus on today's vote, they will not record it as a clear day of our post-political democracy, as was said yesterday in this Chamber, but as one of the most important areas, because this evening we are abolishing a decree of dictatorship and protecting the freedoms and rights of many from lawlessness and the fascism of the few. Today's draft law does not disturb political life, but improves and rethinks its democracy. That is precisely what we, ladies and gentlemen, are ensuring and voting for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u364	Thank you. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u365	Ladies and gentlemen, one cannot question the fact that there has been a creative debate, a creative dialogue. Through the exchange of arguments, the submission of proposals, I think we are going to vote on a bill, with the improvements made by the Secretary-General, with an enlarged majority. I would like to take this into account, particularly in view of the major opposition. It's healthy to have different opinions. Don't vote for a bill. I'll let you know that the younger generation called and told me this. When in a Parliamentary Republic the Chief of Officerial Representation and former Prime Minister says that "this bill will be thrown into the garbage," how healthy is that? To remind you that a year ago we gave an oath here, that we will obey the Constitution and the laws of the state. Do you, in this practice, encourage society indirectly to commit criminal offences? Do you, in other words, lead society elsewhere, why do you not have any other arguments to face up to the government? That is my reasoning from the younger generation which has just listened to the Chief of Opposition has given me this thought. It is legitimate that you do not want to vote. I believe that many of your concerns, such as those put forward by the Secretary-General of the JRC - I have to say - have good arguments. But having different opinions does not mean getting to the extremes. Many of us, therefore, forget that the Constitution itself has imposed the principle of relativity. In other words, the Constitution itself restricts either by banning or not allowing individual freedoms and certain rights to be exercised. What's the Constitution doing? It is what Mr Kastanides said during the debate in the committee: we have more legal goods that weigh the same weight. The Constitution does not serve as a hierarchy of these rights. The legislator has to come and do it. And what do we do today? According to the Constitution that enforces an executive law, according to what we promised in Greek society, according to the comparisons that exist, we want to pass this law on better functioning of democracy, better functioning of society. Many times we call for the 1789 Declaration of Human Rights. Can I remind you what he's saying? The exercise of individual freedoms is in line with the freedoms of others. Freedom lies in being able to do anything that does not harm the other. Our Constitution, therefore, does not make a hierarchy of individual freedoms. They're all equal. You made an omission. You have stood up to absolute refusal while you should be standing up to what Professor Menesis says in Constitutional Law. What were you supposed to take care of? See if these restrictions have an objective and unpersonal character. Don't introduce discrimination. Justifiable for serious reasons. To meet the objective, not to exceed the measure. To be necessary and appropriate. Not to deny the essence of this right that we want to protect, the core of that right. These are provided by this bill. It could be better. We could have found a golden incision. But you didn't want to. You stayed in absolute denial instead of trying to narrow down the one who puts restrictions. You didn't. And it was a great omission of yours. We'd have a better piece of legislation. Do you also want to prove your good will that you want to protect all rights, freedom of movement, protect others' rights, not to be troubled, not to be wasted money, not to be destroyed private and public property? How about we agree that the Minister should make a legislative improvement and that we should all decide together that in the days of Christmas and Easter and national anniversaries there will be no demonstrations? Are you in agreement with this, or do you want it then? And I close with an observation to you. I think, Minister, that we need to improve the issue of civil compensation. You need to improve it. We should make the layout a little better. I fear that many problems will arise in its implementation. With these few thoughts, I am giving a vote in favour of the bill because I think it will help to improve the functioning of a democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u366	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber some people want to think that they alone are concerned about the rights of pensioners, workers, the various social groups, people with disabilities. They consider that they are the only ones who care about the preservation of human rights and freedom of expression. But very easily they forget when they change chair. They forget the Katrugalu law that brought thousands of retired people to the streets. They forget hundreds of young workers from the Ministry of Finance, ELSTAT, the various ministries. They forget the struggle of farmers and of course the free professionals who saw the five years of SYRIZA - ANEL during a recession an unjustified overfishing that really took them down. But today, the day of the vote on this bill is accompanied by a vindication, a period of two hundred and thirty-five thousand pensioners who have seen in the early hours of their accounts crediting their supplementary pensions retroactively. In short, what do we see every day, what did we see today? We saw the Government of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, implementing what was committed a year ago to Greek citizens. And we come today to vote for a law which actually implements two basic things: it harmonises the assembly of citizens who claim respect for the freedom of movement of the rest of the citizens. And I would like to give some thoughts. Does anyone in this Chamber disagree with the logic or the question that 50 or 100 protesters cannot stand by two or three million citizens who want to go to work? Does anyone in this Chamber disagree that the one who protests must also have a surname and a name? But let us put things in order because, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, you read the articles the way you want to read them. Article 4 of the bill: it speaks of the organisation's cooperation with the police or port authority, it speaks of guarding. Article 5: it speaks of a police ombudsman, i.e. a member of the Greek Police who will be a link to the normal conduct of the public outdoor meeting. In short, after many years the Greek police took their responsibilities towards the smooth conduct of a public outdoor meeting. And let's not pass this to the finest letters. We live in 2020. Do not take Greece back years, as you have taken it with your policy for four and a half years. Article 8: It speaks of restrictions. And I ask: is there going to be a change in the pretext for limiting the meeting space depending on the number of participants in a demonstration? In fact, any decision to impose restrictions is notified to the organiser in good time and, of course, before the demonstration takes place. Ladies and gentlemen, because I am elected to the southern suburbs in the South of Athens, I would like you to consider and consider whether such images are worthy of the citizens of southern Athens, the citizens of Piraeus, the citizens of Kalithea, the people of Nea Smyrna, the Old Faliro, these tails on the Angrou Avenue. Such images are seen in Buliagmenos and other central arteries of Athens. I think that these images aren't worthy of civilians who want to go to work this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, to look at things in fact. I heard Mr Tsakalotos interrupting the country's Prime Minister this morning in disagreement with this bill. And I want to ask him this from the Step. Why, Mr Tsakalote, you know that I was the president of one of the largest unions, the workers' association in Attica and Cyclades. How many times, Mr. Chakalote, have you seen the representatives of the employees of the Ministry of Finance as Minister? How many of their requests have you met? Answer these two questions and then come to this Chamber to do what you want, the sluts that you think you are doing to a Prime Minister reformer, a Prime Minister who you can't even touch on his little finger in his determination. What do you have to say to the employees of the 2013 Finance Ministry, in the 2015 2K series, when you didn't see them and leave the legal representatives of the employees in the liquor of the Niki Street? Because you gave that picture. And now you're coming to say what? You're saying you disagree with this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, you could say a lot, but we have the political legitimacy to bring this bill. And this is what Michael Chrysochoidis and Leuteris Economou, the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. I heard you talking about the mayor of Athenians, Kostas Bakoyannis, I heard the Chief of Officer's Response. But do not overlook the political legitimacy of the Mayor of Athens. And I want to submit to the minutes the results of the municipal elections. Because Costas Bakoyannis implements his programme. Are you questioning the mayor of 65%? Let me get this straight. And you had a vision for Athens, but in the 2006 municipal elections, which at the time was Mr. Tsipras to recall that he received a percentage of 10.51% at the time. Do you know how much difference 65% of Mr. Bakoyannis makes with 10% of Mr. Tsipras? It has a 55% difference. So in this difference you cannot speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Comrade, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u369	I would like to close my speech with the saying of one of the seven wise men of antiquity, the Cleobulo of Rhodes or Lindium who has ruled Lindow for for forty years, with the saying 'A excellent measure'. Because that is the best practice to avoid extremes and excesses. Cleobulos, Mr. President, said "the enemy of the people to consider him your enemy". Greece is the country of thought and culture and Greece, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is on the way to Europe, development, honesty, credibility and trust, with the party that was tested during the year, with the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u371	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the feeling that the social, economic and health crisis that our society experiences leaves us with its fingerprints, I would say, is sealing the political crossroads in which we are today, the political crossroads in which we are having today's debate. Here are conflicting, the Left's proposal is being cross-checked, the proposal of the democratic party that, as a government, managed to get the country out of the memoranda, with the right-wing proposal, with the policy that bankrupt the country, with the policy that did not manage to get it out of this economic crisis. I will not repeat much about the government's mandate of these two proposals. It is worth standing on ELSTAT's 2018 data. The population at risk of poverty between 2010 and 2015 increased by eight hundred thousand. By 2018, it decreased by six hundred thousand. The lengthy timescales of the speech, ladies and gentlemen, do not allow me to dwell on all the elements, but I would ask you to study everything. It all moves in the same wavelength and the numbers in their ruthless language help us draw the respective conclusions. And these are: firstly, that the footprint of the crisis continues to exist; secondly, the parties and policies that have poorly affected the world, the parties and the policies that have increased the inequalities; thirdly, the proposal and the policy of the democratic party, the proposal and the left policy that has managed to put a brake on and reverse this course are clearly seen. Ladies and gentlemen, one year's New Democracy. They spoke a lot before me and I will not repeat details, but the truth is that the New Democracy in this time that it ruled has managed to brake the recovery course of the Greek economy before the occurrence of the coronary, behind the treatment of which it is trying to hide. Let's not be fooled. It's been a long time waiting for the world. Right and her policies lead to days of hunger, days of anger, days of indignation. And I would say that this fear of the right-wing party in the expected growing popular discontent today is at least greater than the confidence shown by the fighting social groups in their powers. Gentlemen of the government, this fear determines your policy today. That's why you brought today's bill. I'm not going to talk about the horror. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the characteristics that differ and separate human beings from other species of the animal kingdom is respect for the dead. And I'm never going to talk about issues of the dead. But I heard too many crocodile tears about the afflicted shopper who at one night loses his property or the afflicted worker who cannot move freely in the center of Athens. To close the parenthesis, several of the New Democracy colleagues have, in other words, stood in the way of the para-state. In my opinion, and with all due respect, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which I have on your side, you do not give a damn about the small, the poor, the weak. I am not judging by your speeches or your past that we could put them on the table. I judge it by the harsh measures of austerity that are affecting the world of work, which are affecting young people, which are affecting the productive structures of the country, which are affecting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. You are trembling in front of these reactions. These reactions you seek to limit, so you brought that law. And here we are, today, claim freedom of protest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Wait a minute for your tolerance. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech, is that for Greece we are dreaming about, the Greece we are planning for, the Greece we are fighting for, the Left's proposal, the democratic party's proposal goes far beyond the slogan and the demand for freedom of protest. As the President of our party recently stated, Alexis Tsipras, we want a Greece that knows what to produce, where to invest. We want a strong social state to protect every citizen. We want a strong working relationship framework so that every worker feels safe and productive, we want better conditions for the new generation of this country, we want immediate practical solutions to tackle climate change, we want a modern European rule of law. In closing, this Greece, a better life for every Greek and Greek woman, flees the daily mefoli. The story, gentlemen, of the New Democracy - and I close with it - teaches. However, you are proved by the bill that you brought in unacceptable learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u373	No fight, gentlemen - and I close - got no authorisation from the police or the state to develop. With your action you may find it difficult to make our struggle difficult, but you cannot prevent our winning outcome for a new Greece. That's exactly what the party president meant when he said that this bill would go to the trash can of history, because we're going to win. The President does not call on us to act.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Alexandros Flavouraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u375	Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely regret that the government has opened up this debate, a debate which in the name of allegedly regulating conflicting constitutional goods is testing democracy. We disagree at the core of this draft law, because it affects basic individual and democratic rights of citizens and our confrontation is deeply ideological and is located in the area that for political and historical reasons there is no way of dealing with them. I know, of course, only the one who's fought for something has in mind protecting it. We all know that the Right has no real struggles and sacrifices for a democratic Greece to really care about the quality of democracy. That's why a lot has been said. I'll just say three things. The first is that I've spotted on the government's side that we're not talking about, we're not dealing with, we're only complaining. Indeed, Greece of Kolokotronis and Makrigiannis, the Greece of Ritsos, Lambrakis and Petroula to Greece of Gregopoulou and Physsa cannot discuss and negotiate her life. Because this Greece was mainly the victim of Greek governments. That is why he must react without astronauts to the despair of protest and popular expression, but also to the devaluation of history and historical memory in the right-wing effort to gain ideological hegemony. The second thing I would like to say, in addressing the democratic citizens, but also to some of the colleagues of KINAL, is to remember together the critical moments of the history of our people such as those I mentioned earlier: the break-up of the people for democracy after the 1965 apostasy and the struggle against dictatorship, the 'people in power' in '81, the 'not ashamed' of Andreas Papandreou, when he referred to the murder of Kumi and Kanellepoulou in 1980. That's all. Your own account, of course, and I am not allowed to extend any more. Ladies and gentlemen, the third thing I would like to say to be clear is this. We need to know and know that these time-consuming values have not been spent and will not be spent as much as they want and that neoliberal financial post-democracy is trying in Greece and Europe. Protests are not a charity race. The protests have been received. The addressee is the governments, the respective authority. And the only expression of direct democracy is out of the vote. It is the way of political participation of many. It is, despite the pathogens that may be observed, the people's lively conversation with their government. I would just like to make one reference to the article on the responsibility of the organiser who, beyond his unacceptable peculiarity, also indirectly affects the constitutional right of the cooperative. The aim, but also the result of this choice, is to poison the functioning of labor unions and other reasonings, to distort the trade union activity of workers and the unemployed, to crush the spontaneity of youth, people of culture and intellectuals and education. In this way, they want to eliminate critical thinking, action and action. We are going, in other words, either to protest systemic types, to charity struggles, for example, or to protests of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, the democracies when they are solid are tolerable. Only regimes are afraid. Only one government that is afraid of the people is in the mind of limiting its voice, and indeed preventive, when it already has any legislative and other means to intervene when serious criminal offences are committed. And since a year now the New Democracy Government has broken down small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, it has pushed thousands of workers into unemployment, it has established the doctrine of "half-wage work, half-wage wages", it is trying to mock and mislead by saying that the restriction, ban and dismantling of meetings is in their interest. However, they all know very well that customers do not enter their shops because they are prevented by mergers, but because they do not have euros to spend. So the government’s account very quickly collapses in the consciousness of the interested and the whole society. Of course, for the New Democracy this option is natural, since the interlocutors who have chosen do not need protests to meet their demands. As for the many, nothing and no one will stop them. In this respect, we are very sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr. Flambury. Mrs Kallipe Vetta has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u377	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating these days brings an interest in the whole society, which is perfectly reasonable. This is the first bill in the Municipalisation that attempts to control, limit and ultimately put an end to the demonstrations. The provisions introduced to the committee, as all the institutions and progressive citizens have been identified, do not fit in with a democratic framework. Prohibitions by order of police, peculiarity and draconian predictions for the person in charge of a protest, prison sentences for those taking part in demonstrations without permission, indirect but explicit circumvention of constitutional provisions, in particular Article 11, which permits a free and undivided meeting. The reaction of the major opposition, the social partners and reasonings has highlighted, despite the media silence, the anti-democratic elements of the bill. I note that the Scientific Service of the Parliament and the Bar Associations have refined the problematic elements of the bill and I do not think anyone can believe that they are our political escorts. It is simply with a high sense of democratic responsibility that the bill finds unconstitutional provisions. Even GFCM is perpendicular to the contents of the bill and calls for it to be withdrawn. So your argument to disturb professionals and traders is being shot down and that you want to protect them. Here I would like to submit the letter from GSE which shows and says exactly that it is completely contrary to the bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Kallipe Vetta, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the reactionary voices of the country have always called for the reduction of individual and social rights. Their constant aim is to turn citizens into nationals, to complying people without rights, only obligations. Racism, as is also mentioned in the bill, is a misdemeanor. The question is why you are now bringing this bill to a vote, beyond your ideological identity. A reasonable speculation is that you believe that the annoying protests have no say and role in - in introductory - your "fair" governance. You also believe that claiming and expressing another view are outdated, outdated things. Who can forget the voice of the Prime Minister when confronted with slogans of contract in Thessaloniki? His ironic abhorrence and unfortunate humour that we are going back to normality, when some slogans of protest have been heard, bears witness to exactly a lot about how you deal with people's claims. Another speculation is that you realize that fragmentary and delayed interventions in the winter economy will quickly provoke social discontent. That is why you want, after all, to anticipate the reactions, to protect yourself. There is, however, a way of minimizing any harassment, as you say, arises in the public area from the existence of protests. The way is simple: Instead of investing in reducing social and individual rights, you can strengthen citizens' incomes. Instead of supporting the channels of your political "friends", you can strengthen education and health. This will reduce the concentration of protests and ensure to a large extent social peace. However, you neither are interested in following this path. You will never do so, because your allies are the great majority of businessmen, canals who hide, beautify and purify the government with the indebtedness, as the posting of the shame list has shown. You're just not interested in what you've proved in the past, but also in this time of your governance. However, you must know that no matter how much you try to suppress the demonstrations, your policy will bring them out of the window. In practice, in other words, you will not achieve anything at all, you will have no effect. Unfortunately for you, movements do not comply with articles and recitals. In conclusion, I should like to point out that you are introducing a law on demonstrations that has no, at least small, reference to the problematic and illegitimate behaviour of the bodies of the class during the demonstrations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Nearly every day there are nameless complaints of violent behaviour by certain policemen who are staining this House and their colleagues. Is there any care on your part or will you remain a mere viewer of these actions? Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I think that this bill does not regulate anything, it simply regulates extreme right-wing fantasies and gives the police the role of a childish social movement. After all, its minimal changes do not change the character, as they only respond to a few of the many objections of democratic citizens. This bill is not covered, not amended, only denounced. This is an act of responsibility towards democracy and the Constitution. Show the courage needed and vote against it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u378	Thank you. Mrs Irene Agathopoulos has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u379	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill on the ban on demonstrations comes to the House on the anniversary of a year of governance of the New Democracy and, obviously, not by accident, because all that you have so far done and all that you intend to do from now on can only be imposed by suppression and restriction of citizens' freedoms. A lot has been said so far. The best thing, however, that reminded us of moments of manipulation of public opinion in the 2015 referendum, the Prime Minister himself said so. He said: "There is no social group that disagrees with today's bill", "what is our fault is that all the social groups are with "yes" in the referendum, the well-known journalist, who will remain in history. What if, then, prosecutors, lawyers, organisations dealing with rights, even the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, have noted in all tons the unconstitutionality of your legislation, you see that everyone agrees with you. The truth about this bill is one. It is that you bring violence, repression and reduction of constitutionally guaranteed freedoms and rights, which no government dared to do after the junta. And the oxymomile is that within the same bill a Directorate is set up to the Ministry of Civil Protection to prevent violence, and I am referring to Article 19, which introduces the self-sufficient Violence Prevention Directorate, in which the responsibilities are involved with radicalisation with terrorism, domestic and racial violence with hooliganism and intra-School violence, and I do not know what else. What can all such forms of violence be common in preventing them? Also, do you hear the voices that raise questions of academic and research ethics about this address or do you not consider that the investigation should also be subject to your own services? It doesn't surprise us. It's purely rhetorical. But let's talk about the role of the police. It's a given thing - you've proved it - that you want a police force against the citizen and next to power. You want a police that protects you from the civilians and not the other way around. So you've created all these years the police we've got today, dived into scandals and lawlessness. In Kilkis these days, another case of your creation is unfolded, where any policeman who doesn't participate in it - fortunately, there are many more - unfortunately, suffocating and stigmatized within that police you have created. And in this bill you continue the same practice. You are superpowering the police, giving her the opportunity to dismantle meetings instead of protecting the people involved in it. During the period of governance of SYRIZA, against criminalisation, punishment and prohibition, we threw away the prevention, education and the change of social standards. Because the solution, ladies and gentlemen, is not repression, criminalisation and punishment. The solution is the elimination of inequalities, the safeguarding of social and individual rights and, in conclusion, the welfare of all citizens, which is what we have tried to do for four and a half years. I have to say - why you have all done this today - to the citizens who listen to your rhetoric and complain that the concentrations make their moves difficult and that they deprive them of rights from those who do not participate, to compare the period of governance of SYRIZA with the periods of 2010, 2012, 2013. I'll report official evidence. In 2010, a memorandum year, more than eleven thousand protests took place, in 2013 more than seven thousand protests in SYRIZA, less than two thousand protests and in 2018 some two thousand seven hundred protests. It's official police evidence. Why? Think about it and answer for yourself. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I suggest you do an experiment. We've come out of the suffocating cord of monuments and institutions. Raise the wages. Support everyone's right to work. Legislation to eliminate social inequalities, see how quickly the demonstrations will be restricted, without policing and without unconstitutional legislation. I conclude by saying that many of my fellow Members in this House do not care about safeguarding the right of assembly or demonstrating it, because they have never stepped on any demonstration. But there are people here who have spent half their lives on the streets, claiming. I am also talking about my colleagues in SYRIZA, but also about colleagues from the JRC, but also about other parties. There are people here who have been tortured by the junta, defending the democratic rights and freedoms of an entire people. There are other younger people who have been socialised and politicized through spontaneous demonstrations on Article 16, for the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou, with the squares and we are very proud of it. So your bill does not scare us, but of course we cannot vote for it either. We are not giving up such laws and society is not being thrown away. Your bill will remain a blank letter and we will also take care of it, but society itself, and it will in practice collapse. Because the right to assembly cannot be banned from us. We will continue on the streets for Women's Day, for Refugee Day, for Environment Day, for Homophobia and Transfhobia Day, November 17th.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u380	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u381	I'm closed, Mr. President. You can't let us go on the streets spontaneously when kids are murdered by a policeman's hand when women are murdered by the armed hand of patriarchy, when our fellow men are murdered, like George Floyd in America, because of their color. And, of course, you cannot prevent us from protesting when we consider that this government and the next ones also harm the freedoms and rights of an entire people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u382	Be well. Thank you, too. Now Mr Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, I will remain exclusively in the material of the bill, because the material of this bill is not the veracity and the best organization of life and of the protest in the city, but a strangled-type attempt to curb the social protest. The debate is not evolving into a test tube sterilised by economic developments and social processes, at least for us. Because for the New Democracy, and not only, the legislative process does not change either, it estimates that someone will have growth of 4%, or 2%, or if it has a recession of 16%, as we have in this quarter or 9%, as calculated for 2020. So, what do you legislate while the economy is sinking, while unemployment is increasing, while entrepreneurship is suffering, while the middle class is being exterminated. The poor and the weak are marginalized. Do you think they won't protest? Do you think they won't protest? Do you think they won't scream? Do you think they'll applaud you on the balcony every night watching you share their money through the Pecha-Maximus list? I don't think autumn will be as nice as you probably imagine. So the question for society, for the government and for the House is clear. Really, what are the protesters? The government with this piece of legislation claims protesters are a problem. We, the democratic and progressive party, say that the protesters are protesting because they have problems and not to cause problems for their adversaries. Protests are neither a hobby nor a profession. The demonstrations are a cry of agony and a democratic bell in front of social and economic deadlocks. I hear the speeches of many colleagues from New Democracy, and I really wonder: Have you ever come down and talk about social struggles in this terrible and derogatory way? Because for us, for SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, social movements are our values and our path. Truly, these student movements that are being made around the world every Friday and claim a fairer and more sustainable planet how exactly can they be organised with this bill? I remind you of the movements in defence of public education and public health, the movements in claiming decent work, the movements against racism and racial hatred, such as those that broke out around the world after the murder of George Floyd, the great protest of citizens within the memoranda. These social dynamics have shaped and shaped progressive Greece. These dynamics cannot be regulated by law. Since there is talk of the progressive order to say the following. At noon, Mrs Gennama said that the country has - it says - a need for a progressive way out. I say that's right. With what political and social power coalition can the country have a progressive way out? Does the Change Movement consider that the government to which Ms Mitsotakis and Ms Samaras participated as Minister was a progressive government? I think no one thinks so. Really, when and in public will the Change Movement make its account of the country's progressive world of its conclusions from that time on? Because both questions for Greece and for Europe remain and everyone needs to answer them. Does the Movement See, for example, the Spanish Government as a progressive government? Does he see the Portuguese Government as a progressive government? Does it see any positive or negative developments in the French self-government elections? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute more, Mr President. And I think that a section of the Change Movement also has Stockholm Syndrome, is voting for the Mitsotakis-Chrysochoidis bill. I don't want to get involved in their internals, but I see they don't have an instinct of political self-reservation. They vote and reward Mr Chrysochide's bill, which with such ease went through a historic separatist line. Really, is there this dividing line today and getting rewarded? Obviously, I don't want to get into the internals, but there's also a remodelling ahead. Don't they see in the Change Movement that with such practices other "Chrysochoids" will come out on the next day? In any case, we say that the modern separatist line is that of progress with maintenance rather than the anti-left centre with the left. Mrs Gennamata has been mentioned in the Prespecies's Agreement. She said they didn't vote for her because it's a patriotic party. But is it true, even today, that the Change Movement after the last Turkish ruptures has not realized that the Prespecies Agreement was a leading moment of patriotic and European responsibility? For this very reason, because it was a leading moment of patriotic and European responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis as patriotic Prime Minister applies it, honoured and claims its inappropriate implementation. What Mr Mitsotakis has unequivocally confessed to, cannot Mrs Gennamata be expressly and self-critically confess to the political world of the country and, of course, to the political family who themselves participate as members and we as observers, to the European socialists? So I conclude by saying that I agree with the former Prime Minister who spoke a moment ago, Mr Papandreou, that this is an undemocratic bill that is not written again, not written with democratic ink, but has to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u384	Mrs. Pulu has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u385	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, even if most of today's bill has been said, it is only because of its seriousness that we should like to see all of Parliament's colleagues placed on the particular importance of registering our positions and our attitude in the Minutes of this House. That's what I was thinking to get over rage and anger as a person who was actively involved in social life and who, apart from the personal expression of opinion, always sought, like many others in this Chamber, the collective expression. This collective expression of opinion you are coming today to ban with the unacceptable provisions of your bill, which, as has been rightly said by many colleagues, is an inspiration of other times, of times when democracy was quarantine, since its institutions had been destroyed and its citizens - those who were not in prisons and exiles - were terrified and frustrated in their own political quarantine. But it's not all that reminds us right now. The bill is the culmination of a series of own-minded actions such as the destruction of family asylum, the beating of young people in public spaces, the beating of our islanders, refugees, the violence against defenseless mothers with young children, the violence against demonstrators and unsuspecting citizens. Generally speaking, you seem to be exhausting your strength - or perhaps your cowardice - in suppression. It is also the "exploitation of the world", the cameras in school halls, the deterioration of public education for the benefit of the care centres. It's irregularities in the management of public money. It is your vindication for the race of the excellents, who, of course, prove to be normal. It's the way you legislate without consulting. It is a lot that can be mentioned after a year of your administration and your return to your peculiarity with a guide to your law and order. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing cultivates fear and the idea that public meetings are a threat. It aims to activate reflex social automation. It aims at the preservation of society and the tolerance to human rights violations, because human rights are of universal value and you either respect them and defend them or deport them, and deport them, be they the citizens of our country, or refugees and immigrants. The image and positions of the three ministers of the government at the recent hearing in the European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs exposed our country, leaving specific impressions on the violation of fundamental rights. But I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, who is afraid of? Is Yannis afraid of the wine or the wine of Yannis? Gentlemen of the government, you intimidate the people with the fifty or a hundred brawlers, with the almost daily reference to your businesses in the Excavations Square and you deprive rights and freedoms guaranteed in the Constitution. However, the Prefecture Square is not a daily concern for our people. Her symbolism hides the real need to protect the citizen in his home, in his neighborhood, in his village, in his town. Protection you do not offer with the decommissioned regional police stations and police officers in overcompensation. That's why the class in the Exarchy Square coexists with an increase in offense across the country. You also intimidate the people with pandemic. It's a modern way of social control. You have used the health crisis as it suits your plans and you will continue to do so. Of course, while you have many plans for many services, unfortunately as a state you do not have a plan to get out of the crisis. You make mistakes, mistakes, gaffes, omissions, which cost citizens, but you're trying to cover them with propaganda and intimidation, to control society and manipulate it. You have no plan to prevent and protect citizens. The cases are increased every day and you allow events, fairs in our cities and villages, which cannot be observed in health protocols. Then you come back punishing and imposing great fines. What's it good for? Just activate a collecting mechanism instead of providing for the health of the citizens. So you're trying "Yannis to be afraid of the harvest". Because today's bill proves “that he fears the harvest of Yiannis.” Afraid, because with your policy you went bankrupt the country and now you are again destroying the principle of economic and social normality that has been recorded in the daily lives of citizens since 2018 and early 2019 after great efforts by SYRIZA Government and our people. Afraid, because the great recession resulting from the absence of forward direct measures will lead again to known images, armies of unemployed and households without income. It will lead to further impoverishment of the middle class, which you supposedly had under your protection. This is what you fear, Giannis who can react, claim his work, his rights and his freedoms, to claim his life. Your fear, however, will not devour with the repressive measures you are enacting. On the contrary, it will grow as long as you govern, because you govern for the few, your “logue” and not for many. And this law, which you will vote for today and it is regrettable that the leadership of the Change Movement legalises you, will remain inapplicable, as will others who limit basic freedoms and fundamental rights of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u386	Thank you. Mr. Muzalas from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u387	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I claim that the New Democracy is well aware of what it is doing. It is not a misunderstanding, it is a mistaken assessment. It's a planned event. First these bills were passed, which remove various democratic conquests of our people, remove income, create jungle labour relations, and now the super-weapon, in the New Democracy's view, is coming, which will be able to support this barbaric living conditions that you impose on our people and which will appear very quickly. I would like to tell you that the New Democracy has a firm argument. It's the answer to all the questions. I've said it before. He says, we got 40 percent. Listen, you took 40% with the votes of the Golden Dawn and you are obliged to remain as you think, continue opening to the extreme right, seeking to retain or produce other votes of the Golden Dawn, to tighten up the corresponding ones you already have in you and you are likely to give a hit to the Greek Solution, both here and continue to have 40%. This is something that SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance will show and will reveal this plan. In this context, to keep the central world, you devour SYRIZA, trying to prove that we are all the same. We're not all the same, and you know it. That is why you bring this bill, and that is why we are voting against. There is no question why official KINAL is drafted with this bill. It is a question, which has been answered through his course, the course of official KINAL. He has responded through his condolences with the Samara Government and his condolence to too many laws against the life of our people, which you brought here. There is, of course, one issue. The official KINAL - it is not the KINAL world - will also be judged by the KINAL world, it will also be judged by the progressive party, and there I think we will find that history does not forgive mistakes. Churchill said with spears you can understand a country, you can't hold it in possession. That's what you're doing. You think it's gonna happen on the spears, on the force, on the suppression. Most speakers in the New Democracy have a fetish relationship - I tell you as a gynecologist, take note of this - with the repression, what a repressive thing is. Look, sometimes repression is necessary. And we used it very rarely, with great enthusiasm, and we weren't happy about it. You guys have a fine unsub. You seem to be intercepting this joy of suppression. Let's be a little more measured on some things. He says one of your MPs: This bill is forty-five years late. Forty-five years ago the junta fell and the Constitution of Karamanlis came. It seems that some people who have not continued the junta bills have regretted and changed with the most democratic constitutions, which have been passed since 1974. You're making a fundamental mistake. You believe fear will defeat desire. I'm telling you again as a doctor. Desire will defeat fear. Hope will defeat fear. Your fear will be defeated by the hope and desire of the world. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will join it, organize it and your bill will fall. And you'll fall together too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u388	Thank you. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u389	Fortunately or sadly, I am not a gynecologist, nor do I have the parliamentary experience of Giannis Mousala, but what I can see is that at this time in a parliament, whose right wing is clearly bored, something essential is being done. Ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership do everything possible for the return of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance to government and power. And you can't do that, because you can't manage the command given to you by the Greek people, you just do it, because, by continuing what Yiannis Mousalas said, it's deeply ideological within you what the people at some point, on the sidewalk, on the workplace, and on his work, and on his work, it sees that they lead him to a dead end. A lot has been said these days and I do not think I would add anything important since there is a basic principle, that this bill comes without reason, to fill a gap that does not exist. So there the debate on the bill stops. But there is a real discussion about this ideological war that is systematically organized by even working out the particular conditions of the pandemic, so that you can multiply people who are dependent on your own unreliable and paradoxical political practices. Looking for references to sow fear. But I want to convey to you accurately that citizens, men, women, young people who will be on the sidewalks and streets throughout the country and not only in Ermos or in a number of fifty people is why Mrs Keramos had the unfortunate inspiration to bring a bill to her against the educational community, the students and the parents. It is because the legislature has become a model to avoid the New Democracy. It is not just the rights that are faced with your political intentions, it is also the institutions and procedures that have endured time and have endured as democratic rights. But they cannot withstand the router of the New Democracy. Dear, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are talking about gatherings, about protests, about repression, about peace order. I would like to ask you honestly not as a minor protagonist: All this moral advantage and model of political action you are now showing to tackle lawlessness, this sensitivity, when there were the obscene and ruthless reactions to the Ambassadors' Agreement with citizens who were masturbating, who are struggling against your political opponents, who were hiding it? When the naked backs of the protesters along with the Greek flag played and paraded on the new beach of Thessaloniki, where was that sensitivity of yours? Then why didn't you remember to raise the sword and keep the torches of order and fairness? When they were flying, Mr. Papademitriou - because I see you in front of me - in your Katerini fellow citizens glasses with a great basis against Costas Arvanitis, Dimitris Janakopoulos, Bettys Skuffa and my humility in danger of killing us, where were you? When the SYRIZA MPs burned the homes of the protesters under the tolerance of police, where was this model of political and moral dignity that you are today projecting? I know you're in a difficult position because in a series of measures you want to throw water into the mill of what you have invented as a record, that we're all the same. We're not all the same, then. There is a multi-annual relationship with public money, with the public finances of the party you represent, which is muddled in opacity and corruption, is within the scandalous and grim picture of the bog. And there is a four and a half years rule for which you have not found a single SYRIZA official to have touched a single drachma. This is our big difference, and it will never make us the same. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for questioning our moral advantage. You're right. SYRIZA has no moral advantage, he has a historical advantage, Mr. Lebanese. It has the historic advantage that SYRIZA and the Left have given blood and not suck blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u390	Mr. Skourletis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u391	Ladies and gentlemen, social struggles are not allowed. This is a conclusion which we all have to understand in this Chamber, and it would be good for the majority to draw the correct conclusions from history itself. I don't suppose you think a process of licensing took place in the big moments in social struggles. Can you imagine that May's young men and young men asked for a license? Can you imagine that those who participated in the banned marathon marches in favour of peace asked for permission? Did farmers seek permission - since there was a reference in the previous century - in 1910 to Killer's uprising? Did those who participated in the latest grand plazas that created the conditions for overthrowing bipartisanism? Oh, no. They wanted to overthrow the austerity. And they managed in 2015 to achieve the great overthrow. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that on the birthday of the one year of New Democracy's governance you chose to make this gift to yourself, the most authoritarian bill that hits the core of constitutional rights. You have preconceived us, we know that you have a limited perception of the functioning of democracy. You did so in the past few months when you attempted and succeeded in singing collective agreements, namely autonomous collective bargaining, which guarantees democracy in the workplace. You are trying to do this every day now and again in the context of an active scandal that is the 20 million people, who are unqualified by the willingness to support your policy. And now we're coming to upgrade authoritarianism. We go to a higher field, beat the Constitution directly and the right to assemble. Ladies and gentlemen, you have spoken about radicalism. This is not a new terminology for Europe. But it is something new to introduce into Greek legislation. Of course, since you referred to the recent history of post-population, you should be aware that precisely the radicalism of the new generation and all this radicalism which has been intimidated against the junta is the one who put his print on all the institutional frameworks that were in place since the post-multiple period and there were the respective democratic areas, those which you today want to sing. And I fear that this reading of history makes you adopt the account of Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Voridis, who want to take the rematch of post-multimatum. Because the Left was certainly not justified politically, but was able to put its mark on a number of democratic conquests. And that's what bothers you. And it disturbs you because, as genuine expressionors of neoliberalism, you are well aware that extreme neoliberalism is the twin brother of authoritarianism, and that one can see from the mid-1980s in the early 1990s, where neoliberal leap has gone hand in hand with the limitation of democratic freedoms everywhere in Europe. When the Prime Minister comes out two days ago at the "FINANCIAL TIMES" and talks about a voluntary memorandum policy and talks about reforms that were left out of the first and second memorandum that will voluntarily implement them, he knows there will be a social reaction. So what you are doing now is really sow winds and heated storms. And, unfortunately, this place has met bad times. With this arrangement you do not only directly hit social struggles, you do not limit the right to a constitutional assembly, but you also create a generalised state of marginal atmosphere that encourages all kinds of authoritarianism and repression. And I fear very much that events that have blackened our country over the past decades, the brutal murders of Kumi and Kanellepoulou, Kalteza, Alexander Gregopoulou, may be re-emerged and will be your sole responsibility. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill should be withdrawn. We know that you will not, because you are consistent with a deep, undemocratic and authoritarian conception. However, we want to assure you that we as a place, we as a left, all of us who defend democratic and social rights, will not let this law apply. Our democratic conscience imposes this on us. The Constitution itself imposes it on us. We will defend democracy, defend freedoms, defend the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u392	Thank you for the time too. Now Mr. Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the New Democracy Government brings forth a vote before the National Representation of the Hellenic Republic without debate, without embarrassing a deeply undemocratic and unconstitutional bill. It comes by law to curtail the democratic and constitutional right of assembly and demonstration and, indeed, it legislates that the state decides on what demonstration it approves and which it does not. The New Democracy, therefore, proves to be neither new because it has nothing to be jealous of by the pre-declaration ERA in authoritarianism and cruelty, but - let me - it does not honour the term democracy in its name, since the bill that we have before us has the provisions laid down by the 1971 decree and, indeed, corrections to the hands. I am a parentheses, ladies and gentlemen. There is no need for your admonition about the styles and expressions that are heard here, when you formally call SYRIZA "para-state", "mafia" and I don't know anything else. So the same provisions exist under the 1971 Uganda Ordinance. The President, Alexis Tsipras, and our rapporteur, Yiannis Ragussis, who, along with the bodies, made your argument a leaf and feather. But I'm going to stand on two spots. Firstly, the Violence Prevention Directorate, which will prevent the radicalisation of civil groups, what exactly will it do? Are we talking about policing ideas in the Hellenic Republic in the year 2020? Secondly, with regard to the statement to the police of a responsible person who also has civil responsibilities in order to eliminate spontaneous gatherings, I would ask you: really, if this law were to apply when you went down to the prefectures of the Ambassadors' Agreement, who would be declared to the police as an organiser? Did Mr. Samaras, did he? Georgiadis or Mr. Michaloliacos and Mr. Lagos? Who would take responsibility for invading the House? Because with them you were in the squares of the patriocape to come now honoring and keeping the deal with festive announcements. So, welcome to the new "orban" Hellenic Republic of the Chief of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the most insecure government of post-multiple fear and its shadow, which cannot withstand any criticism or by the media that makes everything with Pechas lists either engrave it or the satire, because there is not a single satirical policy on television. As long as I remember myself and I watched TV, it's never happened before. But now, this draft law does not tolerate social protest, claim, protest. Well, general imprisonment, then. All that is permitted is the applause of the philosopher's public and, as the enlightened philosopher Volteros would say, since Mr. Mitsotakis used when he was in the Antipoliticism and liked to use Volter's scrapes - he was obviously a great fan to use so often that this admiration made him buy sometime and the house he was staying in - he said: "To find who is just thinking who he is that is not allowed to criticize." That's what you're doing today. With incredible power arrogance, you criminalize democratic social control. Really, what do you think you're gonna do with what you're introducing today? Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you will limit by law the class struggle that exists and that there will be as many inequality and exploitation? Will you legally abolish the social discontent or youth claims for public and free education, for social and individual rights, or will you legally abolish the protest of fired, retired, unemployed or people working for 15 hours with 500 or 700 euros? If you believe this, I am very sorry, but you have finally divorced with the right reason, because it is deeply unscrupulous and controversy, the view that society's movement can be curtailed, that it can be prevented from getting people's masses and the human factor in the equation, in other words, of history. The people, the left, the progressive powers, but also the heterogeneous, spontaneous movements have played a catalytic role in the history of both the world and the Greek. And I wonder what would happen, ladies and gentlemen, if Mr Chrysochide's current law were in the 3rd September movement calling for a constitution? What would happen in the spontaneous demonstrations of 1-1-4 and undeniable in defence of democracy? Would you seek organizer and civil responsibilities? What would happen at the resistance gatherings, at the anti-dictatorial demonstrations, such as the Polytechnic, where we mourned dead? Your bill, apart from undemocratic and unconstitutional, is inapplicable both formal and substantive. We tell you not only that, the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament tells you, the announcement issued by the Coordinating Committee of the Presidents of the Associations of Lawyers of Greece tells you that by letter from the Association of Judges and Prosecutors to Mr Chrysochide, the Greek Union of Human Rights tells you and does not sweat your ears. We are telling you very clearly. This law will stay on paper and we once we have come to the government will abolish it. In conclusion, I would also like to make a political comment on the attitude of the parties to this initiative by the Government. The New Democracy has a very simple logic. She's thinking she's messing up in the economy. Since September there has been a storm of poverty and recession and so social reactions. So, superstitiously, she sets up her legal arsenal of repression. But it also attempts to politically unite the extreme right, the right and the extreme centre. The only Prime Minister to do this was Mr Papademos, uniting the New Democracy, the PASOK and the LAOS of Mr Karatzafiris and paying for it to the smaller parties. We remember that very well. Today he wants to unite the Greek Solution and KINAL under his cover. We do not rejoice by voting for KINAL, so that we can have micropolitical benefits from the center and to the left. We don't have hegemony on the progressive party. I consider it a huge political mistake for KINAL to read Ruvikon and finally move from the progressive party to the conservative party. We, who are fighting for a new progressive political and social majority, have tended many times to help and convergence, unfortunately unsuccessfully.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u395	I shall conclude, Mr President, in thirty seconds. With the simple analogue, with the Constitutional Review, with the Prespecies Agreement, with the agreement on the Church, with the "NOVARTIS", which proved to be a scandal with the boulder, let it not therefore be the current bill on the circumvention of the steps a historic political problem against the democratic traditions towards the end of Mr Mitsotakis' strategy for Mr Chrysochoidis' eyes, which many wonder if he was always right or now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, the procedure will be completed at ten. In other words, the roll-call vote will begin at ten. The Change Movement submitted a request for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, 19 and 22. The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u397	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would not ask for the floor, because in essence the arguments surrounding the bill have been exhausted and, above all, the conflicts at the level of the parties' leaders. I have to ask for the floor and ask the floor from the two Ministers for what is now being done outside Athens. Do you think you can continue to be in these benches? I'm saying it straight away. With what right did you hit the event today? Where did you get that right, Mr. Chrysochide, Mr. Economou? For you are presently representing the repression forces that plannedly hit the SYRIZA, PAME, trade unions that had organised the event. There are no pretexts as to whether there have been any individual movements of people or if there has been any dropping of a stone and a molotov. We're just as experienced as you, but in games. We don't have your own business experience. You are both - I am referring to personally - for 15 years in one way or another in an operational way or as politicians responsible for the helms of the police and the Ministry of Civil Protection at intervals. Didn't you have the experience that you were fully responsible and fully responsible, if today were the extensive incidents of which you were leading? Didn't you have that experience?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u398	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u399	It's disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u400	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u401	You didn't have her? Ask against what protesters today were attacked by the forces of which you are leading. We have been telling you for months that police enslavements - and without always giving you responsibilities, Mr Chrysochide, and you know that, because we are too experienced in how perhaps some police enslavements - were hitting young people in the squares, they were hitting two or three people who didn't like their faces, they were hitting motorcycles at the Michalakopoulou traffic lights, they invaded far beyond the orders they were supposed to have from you in various companies that you have made. We were warning you and you know it. And you came today to see this historic day - would anyone say it - a conversation, in that your government took the responsibility to celebrate the first year of governance, bringing this bill to the vote and this hard confrontation at all levels - you chose this day to give orders or to be tolerated - I am speaking very well because you know that all these decades are aware that many things are happening outside of control - but in any case, whether you gave the orders or put up with the attempted pogroms on the streets of Athens, to fill the websites shut up with the fact that there is a problem in the center of Athens and the social fabric is dispersed? Seriously today, when opposition parties and tertiary trade unions called on the people against the bill - not to describe it, do I not enter this debate if it is a monstrous or whatever or what inspiration you brought here? Did you choose or tolerate this situation today in the center of Athens? I tell you right from the point where I started: you cannot, in the common democratic sense and the parliamentary order, continue to be in these benches! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You must either leave or, if you stay there, immediately apologise to the Greek Parliament, before the Greek Parliament, because you understand what message you are giving if, with the whole House, you present at the present time, those who brought a bill - you consider it to be the case - and it is discussed, they call on third-country organisations, they call on the anti-population parties. What's the official thing? If today's event occurs what we learn outside, machines that pass through the protest, many young children, but who are in the police and some people have told them to run vengeance against young people and protesters, what will happen, Mr Chrysochide and Mr Economou, in the next demonstrations, in the subsequent demonstrations on social demands, on rights, on climate, on what is mentioned today? What happens when there are no publicity lights that exist from the channel of the Parliament and the entire Greek people see us today and we can denounce? When they won't be able to report, when the night is down, what happens? Like the ones that became the other day in the bars of the Exarchates or at various other events of youth, no one will be able to report them, no one will have the way to communicate them. And you brought a bill to better organize this crackdown! So that is a huge responsibility. If you have put yourself in charge of the serious events that are taking place in Athens, take the full responsibility! If you have been exceeded - and I speak with knowledge of decades of events, popular and democratic struggles - you will have to resign today! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u402	We continue with Mr. Konstantinos Zouri.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u403	We don't go on at all! Answer this shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u404	Excuse me, calm down! Wait a minute! I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade. We have heard Mr. Voutsi, please listen to the Minister now. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u405	I do not honestly understand this tone of drama, which the former President of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u406	But they don't hit you! You hit SYRIZA's youth!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Comrade, Mr. Janakopoulos, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u408	Shame on you for that!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u409	Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u410	Mr. President doesn't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u411	Let the Minister speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u412	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Levane, please! Mr. Janakopoulos, we heard a moment ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u413	Mr. President doesn't understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u414	Who are you? Who do you think you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u415	Mr. Lebanon, please, sit down! Minister, wait a minute! Mr. Janakopoulos, Mr. Lebanon, please! I told you and Mr. Lebanese... Mr Voutsis spoke just now, and he was given the opportunity to say what he represented - in his view - and your party with the time it wanted. Now you will allow, if you want it not to happen again, because we have lived in this House difficult and now and in previous years - please very much - to listen to the Minister and to have a civilised debate to conclude. I would ask that we listen very carefully to what the Minister will say. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u416	I say that I have listened with a dramatic tone to describe incidents that the President or - I do not know - SYRIZA interprets in his own perception. But there are facts, Mr President. And the real incident is that the forces here in front accepted fifteen molotovs and the molotovs kill if you know it. Molotovs kill!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u417	Do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u418	And here you come and tell me now, you come and tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u419	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u420	Look, ladies and gentlemen, from both New Democracy and SYRIZA, Mr Lazarides, will you let the Minister speak? You will allow the Minister, please, to say his opinion, as the former President of Parliament has heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u421	Trumps, murderers, then, attacked the police forces. They're the ones who dismantled the gathering. The police have no reason to dismantle the concentration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u422	It didn't break up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u423	Don't cause 'cause we were there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u424	Ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, please. Why do I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u425	The police, what it does is protect the protesters from protesting on the other hand... [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] If you think that the political battle you've lost two days will be won by tramps, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u426	We were present.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u427	The tramp killers went to murder cops and broke up the gathering. And right now they're trying to destroy the city. We will do everything we can to defend democracy and human property. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u429	What can you talk about? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u430	To keep the video of the House having it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Vitsa, please. Let's organize the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u432	I am not talking about you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u433	You don't have personal with me. The point is to get the process up and done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u434	What process? It still hasn't been voted and the world's burning up. And the minister is coming and telling us this? We were out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u435	Please, Mr. Vitsa. Again the same conversation now? Mr. Janakopoulos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u436	Bring Papastaurou. Bring Papastaurou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, democracy has rules. Colleague, we said to forget events that have taken place in the Greek Parliament over the past few years. Please very much. Parliamentary representatives have been asked for the floor and will have it. Mr President, please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u438	I'm very calm, you know, because I've been through this. I'm not losing my temper. I'm not talking about bullies or murderers. Minister and Mr. Economou, I repeat. You're too experienced. Perhaps the account that you just told us to have a dose of reality and actually have been attacked by molotov at a certain point, I don't know the number. Minister, you have been operational for so many years, and you know that there is certainly no dissolution of a great demonstration from sections perfectly peaceful in the name that there may have been the attacks you have said. There may have been. I'm not in a position to question it. Alas, if five, ten I don't know how many people you want, now called the bullies, this morning you'll find them ID... If there is any attack on the police forces on the ground, this is being dealt with and not given - nor do you give a mandate to deliberately dismantle until Ermos... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] By Ermos, the police were running to dismantle the sections of the PAM and the other organisations. It is unacceptable what you said we used or used trumpets. That's what you said. Also, that we represent trumpets. Take it back and see your position because you may not see what happened today around your own person and your responsibility. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u440	Parliamentary representatives should speak. The Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u441	Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. And Mr. Voutsis spoke and asked again to speak, and he will speak again. Please. I asked for parliamentary representatives to begin. We said no. The Minister will answer. All the parliamentary representatives will then be given the floor and we will continue the dialogue. At 22: 00, but you should know that we will complete the process. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u442	You're giving me things I'm not saying again. You're the ones who say. I repeat that bullies and murderers attacked the forces here in front of the House. We have wounded police officers, Mr. Vutchy. That's the reality. They ran into a molotov to kill cops and burn cops. That's the reality. Everything else you say is nowhere. Nowhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u443	Aren't there anywhere?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u444	Aren't you ashamed? You're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u445	Mr. Janakopoulos, you'll be speaking in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. We will listen to the Minister and then the parliamentary representatives will speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u446	Secondly, those who attacked should normally be arrested. And that's what the powers have to do. That's their job. Those who have assaulted murderously against cops or against anyone else are obliged by the police to arrest them. And that's what's trying to do. Also, I repeat that at the moment a great effort is being made not to destroy human property, shops and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u447	Let go of the fortunes. Road dissolution plan. He's mocking the House. He's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u448	Mr Colleague, democracy has the features to speak and then you talk. It will be the parliamentary representative who will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u449	He's lying. We were there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u450	Mr Colleague, the parliamentary representative will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u451	The police had a role today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u452	Stop it, man. You're lying. You're offended by what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u454	You and the government organized it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u455	You understand that there are rules. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u456	There's no way in here to alter the truth and the reality. There's no way. And what's going to happen is to make this case fully clear and arrest all the bullies who tried to burn the police and dismantle the concentration. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] That's all I have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Janakopoulos, I'll start with you. After the JRC, then Mr. Hetas, Mr. Lebanese. Is there someone else here? And Mr. Kamines.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u458	In the order of parliamentary power.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, may I have the floor for a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u460	Please, Mr. Levane. What's the point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u461	Won't the JRC ever talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Philie, please, let's hear the point of order. Please, Mr Levane, tell me what the procedural procedure is. To me, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u463	Mr President, we are here twenty-four hours. We're talking. Each one expresses his arguments. The people who protest outside are demonstrating. I call on all groups and all MPs and ministers to be calm. Everything we do inside the hall triggers developments out. Let's stand to the height of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u464	Mr. Lebanon, please sit down. That's not a point of order. Help me complete the process. It was not a point of order under any circumstances. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Chrysochoidis and gentlemen of the government, or they don't tell you well, or you're mocking us all. We have the well-known staged effort and operationally to dismantle the large concentration, which I inform you has not been dissolved. He's outside. He's back, and half the people are crying. What you're saying is unacceptable. First, you pushed these groups, not you, the cops, and they brought them here to play the known game, the well-known role of thief and officer, to give you the pretext to bomb the whole protest. And now you're telling us about a group of those you hit? Yannis Delis is crying. This is where the KKE MPs were, in the nutshells? Did they hurt or not? Living proof of the bill you bring, of what it's going to bring even more. The government's attitude is unacceptable, and if you think we're scared, you're literally laughing. You're swinging your head. Tell us, how did the JRC MPs and the whole world eat tear gas? How did they eat tear gas, which was 50 meters away? You hit, they hit the whole protest. And because we have a great deal of experience and because you know our relationship with these groups very well, what I'm saying was a provocative, organized plan, to hit the protest, so that it gives you supposedly arguments about the properties and all that you're saying. We denounce that. We're telling you: withdraw it. It's live proof of what's going to happen. And what happens now? Will you ask the federations and the labour centres and the civil unions if they are made shiny by those who don't catch them? And why don't you get caught and leave them and manifest themselves like that? That's the point. And we're telling you that we won't get through this as far as we're concerned. We know these plans very well, we know who makes them - we cannot yet say it - but today was a classic case of government or - I do not know - a police plan that was not aimed at them. If he targeted them, he wouldn't let them come to the Constitution. They couldn't be ruled out by the police? Why did they leave them and get in here? Since they came near, they came. Leave the rest. Take the political responsibility or denounce the police forces and the operations that this has done. There's no other place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u466	Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u467	What order is this, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u468	It's all right, Mr. President. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u469	I have no problem with that, Mr. Scandalidis, I'm really talking to you. Thank you very much, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u470	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u471	Mr Chrysochide, the last demonstration before your new bill had no good results and, unfortunately, we were entitled to what we have been saying in the last 24 hours by the committees so far, that either with the previous statute or the new bill that you are going to vote today is not going to change anything. As a first comment, I would like to say, because I am young in this Chamber, that I am really sorry about the image I see. If we give such an example with so tense nerves and such extreme behaviors, what do we expect from the world out there? Mr. Chrysochoid, I'll tell you something. You said: 'Molotov kills', you said: 'Trumbos and murderers'. I'll say yes, I agree. And what did we tell you? So the one who kills and the killers who are candidates, you're taking them with a flood. That's why we're telling you about stricter penalties, to be careful, to be a felony. Why should I tell you something? As everyone saw it in there, and televisions and everything. And where we had a very nice demonstration today, where mainly PAME participated and was excellent, suddenly a piece is distracted, a bunch of 50 - eighty-persons with masks, helmets and hoods, with the firefightings in the hand, the molotovs flying and they went to burn us alive. What are they now? Shouldn't they be arrested, should they go for a felony? Mr. Chrysochoid, everything we tell you about the good of the patronage and the logic. A felony, Mr. Chrysochide. Don't be a stereophobic. Don't be afraid of them. Either you do a felony or you leave it a flood, they'll chase you, they'll ask you to resign. They like mess. Don't be afraid of the Opposition. Look at the good of our country. Yesterday we talked about it and today it's happening. He said, "We know who makes these plans, but we will not say." It's a travesty of what we're living for.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u472	I said, it's the state mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u473	I'm with you. We know who makes the plans, we know who the 'unknown's and we've been haunting our minds for years without conceiving them. We all know who they are. We all know who they're up to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u474	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u475	I'm with you. If we know why we don't arrest them, why don't we clean the laundry out of this manure, let's get it over with? Why don't we finish with them? There is a chance that the Police Special Forces, the Police Special Forces, will not know who the “famous - unknown” are, who are the para-staters, who are the bollocks, who are the provocators? We all know them. Arrest them, clean the laundry. So, what's to be done? Property will be destroyed today and in a week and 15 days and since September, as some people have said, which will intensify mobilisations and be in the same spectators' work. Improved penalties now! Do the felony, arrest the brats.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, has the floor for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u477	Minister, I think that what is currently being done outside the Chamber is indicative of one thing, that it cannot be because there is a European framework that tackles the demonstrations, and all this country has to bear it unfounded, because here there is a discriminatory state, a state whose mechanisms have been in place for too many years, while for many years there have been those that are mainly causing the incidents, but for many years we have been living in these situations and provocations. So there is this state and you are coming today with the bill to legalise or want to legalise the sole reason for the police and you are still insisting on civil and criminal responsibility for the organizers of the protests. I think this should be withdrawn. This is a last chance in the face of this situation if you want to show that you mean the application of this institutional framework to now take the initiative - an old politician you are, you have handled similar situations - and accept the amendment that we have tabled, because I believe that this will be a step in the right direction so that the new institutional framework can be applied on substance. And you must now look for the responsibilities of those who have caused these situations outside the Greek Parliament, because we have had a long time to live in such situations. It's just time you decided to accept the proposal of the Change Movement. I must say that the proposals you have accepted have improved this institutional framework, but the case of civil and criminal liability becomes an urgent need to withdraw immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u478	Mrs Bakadima has asked for the floor from Mera25. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u479	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Unfortunately, the images that we have seen outside are unacceptable, but also the images that we have seen here within Parliament. The Minister spoke of blood and dead. The Civic Opposition and Mr. Voutsis made reference to a night coming. Unfortunately, the night isn't coming. The night came in 2010 and you are accountable to all those who have been members of the Memorandum Governments because you have brought the need for the country to institutionalise policies of repression and reduction of human rights. Unfortunately, we are sure that the images that we have seen today in the last demonstration before it is passed by the Government and the Change Movement of this bill - abortion of mosques and styles - are a precursor of all that we will see unfortunately next time, trying to divide the world, the citizens and scare them, to keep them in their homes so that they do not resist and not come to you in the memorial policies of the fifth and hardest memorial that you will bring to the country. Unfortunately for you and thankfully for all of us that we think that people should have their right to meet and not to blame them on legal and illegal people who want to protest because their rights are being violated, this bill will not be required by the next government, as Mr Katrugalos said yesterday, in order to abolish it, the Greek people themselves and will be abolished from Greek society on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u480	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u481	Mr President, thank you very much. Today we are living the rehearsal of the neo-fascist bill Chrysochide - Mitsotakis. Today it is a picture of the future that happens out on Syntagma Square, Ermos Square, the streets of the Academy and the University. It's a picture of the future. You have confirmed today, Mr Chrysochoidis, the whole criticism you hear from the opposition in these two days. You do not want to regulate any right to assembly and meetings. You want a white check to dissolve protests, gatherings and marches. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This white check no matter how much laws you pass, you won't get it. You're not taking her! Put it right in your head! This law will stay on paper. You tried today to dismantle the protest. The protest continues despite your efforts. Today, it was organized by the Police of Mr Chrysochoidis, a provokatsa operation to justify the rehearsal of a gerranele, to justify the break-up of the protest, to justify the choice of allegedly showing force against the protesters. The Minister spoke of a murder attack. And I wonder, Minister, and answer this Chamber, to take responsibility. Who made the murder attack, assuming it was done? I have no reason to question you. The JRC MPs? The members of the JRC? SYRIZA members? SYRIZA MPs? The SYRIZA youth that was ruthlessly hit in Bucharest? Because you two talked about molotoving in the Constitution. Why did the SYRIZA youth block break down in Bucharest, Mr Chrysochide? Are you going to answer us? You have organised a provocative operation, and that is why you must resign! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Unless this operation was organized by autonomous enclosures of the Greek Police, which you must have the courage to denounce before this House, to denounce them in front of the Greek people and to choose their dissolution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Leave what you know, i.e. charge the provocation that you organized your choice to dismantle today's protest. Image of a dark future is today and only shame should you feel!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u482	Mr Lebanese has the floor now from New Democracy and we are finishing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying that we should all respect the parliamentary procedure of the last two days, but above all, the people who...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u484	When they throw you molotov...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u485	The people who protest outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u486	Yes, you're the ones who've resented them!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u487	And the framework that we are voting on today exists and there is just to be able to demonstrate. But respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u488	They've been hit from the back!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u489	Mr. Chakatte, calm down! I won't follow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u490	They've been hit from the back. Do you know or do you speak like that? You know what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u491	We must also respect the people who are demonstrating both the process and the millions of our Greek fellow citizens who have waited for this legal framework to come to Parliament for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u492	Aren't you embarrassed? It's a beaten world out! Aren't you ashamed? His manager was hit by a motorcycle!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u493	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let it be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u494	We will not follow the procedure you choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u495	Are you kidding? Are you laughing? You've become a right-wing servant and you're laughing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u496	You don't respect people who protest outside. Stop and respect the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u497	Please don't have to interrupt. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u498	Stop and respect the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Chakatte! Do we have to interrupt? Let's finish. It's views. This is Parliament's procedure. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, this is the procedure provided for in the democratic regimes. Most of them decide. Laws change. At some point they may be modified or changed. But the speaker will finish. Please, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u500	I'm afraid in your attitude that your intention this weekend was just to trigger the situation. Let us talk and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u501	Come on, Mr. Levane. Leave the crises now and come to the point. And the protest, the opposite view, is within Parliament's limits. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u502	The charges you launch for fascism are returned. The New Democracy calls on all the wings of the House not to give rise to any more tension within Parliament because, either deliberately or unwittingly, you are also transporting outside Parliament. It is wrong, especially the most experienced of you, to keep throwing oil on the fire. Who benefits from this? We do not consider that neither the government nor our prolongation nor you nor, above all, the Parliamentary Republic is of no benefit. The protest continues, it has not been interrupted. The information we have and the government has, but I think you too, are that outside the peaceful course of PAME, outside the peaceful course of organizations that are outside, a department that threw ten - fifteen molotovs...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u503	What are you talking about? Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u504	Mr. Levane, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u505	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u506	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u507	Why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u508	Let the Minister answer! Is it true the PAME dropped molotov?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u509	On the contrary, I said, Mr. Paphie! But don't you hear what I'm saying? I said the opposite. I said the opposite, Mr. Comrade. So I'm going back to life.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u510	Mr Pafile, let Mr Lebanese conclude, and if there were any misunderstandings about something he said, there could be a correction. You see how he says he said otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u511	That's exactly the opposite of what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u512	Let him finish. Please don't have a dialogue. Go on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u513	I'm saying the opposite. And the police reacted to them because they were injured.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u514	He threw chemicals in PAME.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u515	Our proposal to all of you is not to go on with the bizarre logic in Ethiopia. We respect the demonstration, but we must also respect the rule of law, we must also respect the order of order, we must respect the security of our fellow citizens. Keep your political positions, we're keeping ours. But we must respect our democracy and the process in and out of Ethiopia. Throw tons, stand to the height of the circumstances and do not continue this fire of dialogue means that creates greater problems outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u516	We continue with the witness list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u518	I'm sorry, I was wrong with a speed. We continue with the list of speakers, I wanted to say. Once the MPs witnessed! Before we proceed with the list, however, the Minister has asked for the floor for a minute. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u520	Have the DELLTA teams been beaten or not beaten?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u521	What's wrong with you yelling all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u522	Let the Minister speak. Mr. Chaakalot, let the Minister speak. This House has shown in this period...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u523	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u524	Mr. Chakaloto, no one came out to win with the voices! This House has shown a level. Don't ruin it. Don't mess it up. This House has a level and that concerns all directions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u525	Have the DELLTA teams been beaten or not beaten?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u526	Please! With the voices, it doesn't change anything! The plenary will decide, the Members will decide. You won't impose opinions. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u528	Have the DELLTA teams been beaten or not beaten?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u529	Can I speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u530	But answer that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u531	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Please take it easy on both sides of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u532	If I may, I would like to officially inform the House of what happened. Outside there's a very big gathering of six, seven thousand people, maybe more. I'm talking about counting the police. The big block, the coordinate...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u533	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u534	If you're kind, listen to me and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u535	That's what we want!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u536	So the big block, which is PAME's coordinates there and remains. The truth that has been said is that the protest, the protest continues. Not dissolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u537	Because the protesters are determined! That's why!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u538	Ms. Manolaku, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u539	Excuse me, it's none of your business. Why are you shouting? It's none of your business. I'm saying it's none of your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u540	How isn't this our business?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u541	Who's this about? What do you say it's none of our business? Who's this about? It's not about the MPs?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u542	It does not concern you in that you did not cause a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u543	Let the man speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u544	Let the Minister continue. Please! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u545	But, please, allow me. I'm saying it's none of your business in the sense that he didn't do anything about this whole PAM front against the concentration. It didn't cause anything. For God's sake, I didn't say that. So, a thousand people attacked the forces with a goal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u546	A thousand people?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u547	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u548	A thousand people. But listen to me for a second, please! Listen up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u549	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u550	Don't you want to hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u551	Let the Minister finish. He's making an assessment. Members who will speak can then say that this assessment is not correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u552	Don't you want the House to be informed? Then you can tell your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u553	She's not aware, she's listening to your lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u554	Listen to me! Second, a thousand people, then, attacked the forces... [[Noise in the Chamber]] But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u555	Mr. Janakopoulos, Mrs. Karamanlis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u556	So, a thousand people attacked the forces, they dropped fifteen molotovs in front of them and the forces were pushed away - look, listen to me a little - so that people would not get hurt and no damage to property is done and the physical integrity of the protesters and the police would not be jeopardised. At the moment, because of this fact, nine arrests have been committed by those who molotoved against the police. Secondly, there have been eight other incubations. Thirdly, there are wounded policemen. Fourthly, many unused, unused molotov bombs have been found in the Constitution. There was a plan, that is, the gathering to dismantle these people and hurt people and do harm. Well, I have one to tell you. As long as there is this government, as long as there is us in the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, we will never again let nor will any people be injured or damaged in people's property. Know that, it's our basic principle. And whoever uses murderous weapons, whether they're really guns or molotov, will be arrested. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So those who broke up or tried to dismantle the gathering tonight are the specific people who came here, here to destroy both the gathering and the police. I repeat - and I say this sincerely and with great respect to the JRC - that this case is not about the JRC. Yeah, you ate the chemicals. I know! But it's none of your business. Your people down there are exemplary! That's what I want to tell you. That's the reality and we...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u557	Is this about us being there? Answer us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u558	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u559	We as leadership will always take care of the new law that we bring together and put guarantees, Mr Scandalides - and I would like to say that it was an excellent speech for you this morning - to have as the main priority the human life, the property of people and the safety of police officers. That's how we'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u560	Is this about us being there? Answer us!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u561	Please! By saying it's not about a party, it doesn't mean we're going with the kidnapping, to say it's about another. He didn't say that or it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u562	Minister, there is a very serious information!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u563	We want to ask a precise question!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u564	The former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, who is entitled to the Rules of Procedure to ask him when he wants to speak. Here, Mr President, you have the floor and then we will be on the list of speakers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u565	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u566	Please! There's no staff. He did, ladies and gentlemen, an estimate that those who tried to cause a problem at the concentration were obviously out-of-parliamentary officials. That's how he realized it. So there's no question. I think the Minister was very clear. Mr President, here you have the floor. Mr. Ragosi, Mr. Voutsi doesn't need any suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u567	I will speak calmly, Mr Chrysochide and Mr Economou, to listen carefully to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u568	I'm sorry to interrupt, Mr. President. The President will speak and then we will enter the witness list. [[Applause - laughers in the Chamber]] I'm sorry. It's the old capacity. What can we do? Well, we're gonna go into the list with the talkers on the phone. Keep in mind that the vote takes place at 22.00 noon. With these interventions, it is possible that many Members will not be able to speak, so we are asking for your understanding. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u569	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is something more dangerous than what has been done outside, and it is the information you have been given. There is something even more dangerous than that, and it is that you have embraced this information and mentioned it as official government information before the Greek Parliament, for a thousand who dropped fifteen people who wanted to murder, who did not disperse the event, which is not about PAME. It's all out of reality. It's all. I know - and I tell you right away, because I went out and saw - that there had been a time when there was only thirty on the Constitution, the whole event was broken up and, of course, the protesters of the PAME came back and then the protesters came back from the other blocks. You completely dissolved it on a scale of two hundred meters. Secondly - you will know - there was a shine. Mr. Economou, they blinked before the molotoves. Ask for all the evidence and get the drones and whatever you think. There is a picture, unfortunately, of a person who was in the gallery of the House, from what was put to me responsibly, that is to say, in the House, dressed not with police, etc., who, with walkie talkie direct contact probably and possibly with people who did this sort of unlawful action between this block. What was said here today, Mr Chrysochoidis, comes from the deep future of post-multimatum. You know that very well. You're very experienced. You know how many provocations they've become. You know how many big protests have been dissolved on the pretext or on the real cause that there have been individual episodes. You should also know that there is a complaint - we do not only have surnamed complaints from the SYRIZA youth block - surnamed officials who beat them quite away. There is also a complaint that they were hit by "DELTA", that is, by the group you re-established to restore the law and order, Mr Chrysochide, in the country. They were hit by the back-named protesters, executives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do not charge yourself, in the name of not giving up today or going through your bill, at such a time before the Greek Parliament with a completely misinformation which reverses the facts, which seeks to scorn, which has no need, one of Parliament's political forces. Because that is what Mr Lebanese has done, and let me tell you that we are more experienced than both. Show SYRIZA and show other forces. While you obviously had on the same fate of the attack and the forces of PAME, you wanted for political regular reasons to show who the morals are and who the partners are and who create the balls, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u570	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u571	Allow me - I say it calmly - to tell you: Communicate. If you don't quit, at least come to your senses. The political size of being in the face of complaints of strikes made in closed, openly unnecessarily honored areas does not help you either the law and order to inspire such a climate within a society of fear and uncertainty due to the coronary. Consider a little political and not just operational and regular - I do not dare to say that you should consider democratically - to prevent these developments. Unfortunately, it is a political joke that you have acted today in favour of safeguarding the protesters. I am very sorry and I urge you again to resign if the facts go beyond you. It has happened many times, Mr Chrysochoidis - Mr Economou knows this better - to overcome the events of political leaders, events that have taken place on the road. We know them very well. We don't have time to list them. If events go beyond you, ask those who have exceeded your orders, or resign. Do not take responsibility for this information. It's a mistake. It is the information that creates a toxic climate and is an information that looks at the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u572	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u573	The Minister for a moment wants to make some clarifications on the subject he created. Please be brief, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u574	Thank you, Mr President. As you referred to a first person, Mr Voutsi, Mr President, I would like to tell you that everything you say shows that you have been doing an investigation all this time and that you have come to some conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u575	We were there, we weren't investigating.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u576	What you are doing here, for tonight, in the political battle that is being done on a matter concerning our democracy and the exercise of the rights to gain impression. Well, I'm turning everything back. And I'm turning it all back. Do you know why? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I turn everything back on you - take care, Mr Voutsi - because what you are doing is unacceptable and are not responsible enough, let me tell you. I have received confirmation from the competent authority, which is called the Athens Police Directorate, and I have an obligation here, in Parliament, to make official briefings and I have informed you, and I tell you that we have six injured police officers and dozens of molotovs. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Well, against all of this, you're making me appreciates. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We'll finish the bill tonight, so democratically...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u577	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u578	For one thing, I assure you, we will never let human life and private property be affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u579	Mr. Zouraris is being called upon to take the floor. I repeat that time is too short. Some colleagues, if they can, resign so that we can finish at 2 p.m., as planned, because many Members have also planned to travel. After Mr. Zouri is followed by Mrs. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u580	Mr President, my respects. Just twenty years ago, we had contact with the then Minister of Chrysochide, who had just taken over, I think, the respective Ministry and I asked him for a Turkish fugitive, for which, unfortunately, twenty years ago, there was a threat of extradition to Turkey. Then there was still the death sentence in Turkey. I met the Minister - I suppose he remembers - and he said to me: 'Kosta, it's Christmas Eve. It won't be published now. But I'll call you after the third or fourth day of the new year to tell you what happened. On the third day of the new year the Minister himself called me and said: 'Okay, the Turkish doctor will not be issued'. I want twenty years later to express to the current Minister for the then Minister for Foreign Affairs my gratitude for his exemplary attitude at that time. Now, of course, all of a sudden, there is now Chrysochide, who is trying to pass this law. You know, my Minister, now, because I, too, met EPE very well then, and less well you now, nothing has to do with New Democracy now. You've improved a lot. You are much better than those kings of ERA, etc. Of course what I must tell you is this. This draft law which you will be voting on today, as today's Chrysochoidis, the Minister, is worse than you are. You're much better than the bill you're going to vote on today. So I'll tell you what this is about. And Plato in "Citizen" and Ioannis Chrysostomos and Lenin - I repeat, Lenin, Ioannis Chrysostomos and Plato, who starts from 429a in "Citizens" - say why it is. It is what he says - and all three and Lenin and Ioannis Chrysostom are using the same expression - that is why this thing is now happening, the 'zombie' that you are going to vote on. It's the great power of habit. It's what he says he's coming now because he's your first life. What is your ‘previous life’ at this point of the old EPE? This bill - because I know it from the outside because I know the old - is the Greek royal gendarmerie. That's it. It's a joke! I'm bored of dealing with this! It's a royal conspiracy, as I lived in it, hunting us, and one million Greeks beat us every second and third day. They beat me less because I ran fast and because my father's name was famous at the time, they had beaten him, not me. What it means to Greek royal conspiracy. It is that the inertia of the institutions remains, as all three classics say, more than the evolution of people. This "zombie" - bill of the Greek royal gendarmerie you will vote today does not suit you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I close by saying this. Of course, protect the property and all that very well you said. But you didn't think of what you could do? You could count them. It could be that the “ministry of the royal consortium” and the Treasury said that for 15 days three, four streets were damaged in Athens, Thessaloniki and Piraeus and thus deducted from the tax for 15 days from these taxpayers and you would also do with the municipal fees. It's that simple. Easy now! For all this problem you are going to protect with your Greek royal gendarmerie! My sincere condolences!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u581	Mrs. Anna Mani - Papadimitriou is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u582	Mr President, we will submit this photo to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u583	All right, Mr. Ragosi. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u584	Thank you, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 508a]] [[To enter page 508b]] [[To enter page 509a]] The answers to the facts were given to the Minister. What I have to say as a Member of Parliament is that it is very sad to hear from my fellow Members, from Members of Parliament, the words 'fascist inspiration','sound of origin', 'neo-fascist behaviour' and to address elected members of the Greek Parliament. They are not appropriate, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, such words and such descriptions in this sacred space. They are inappropriate in Greece 2020. As far as the bill is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is very unpleasant that some images have become everyday in our country and that we cannot at all say that they are normal. I am referring to the images known to us all, mainly from the centre of the Greek capital, a center constantly paralyzing, shops downloading rolls and workers and citizens of all ages, visitors, tourists suffering almost daily. No one can yet forget the image of Athens, the destruction of hundreds of businesses and property, the destruction of public buildings. No one can and must not forget the facts in Marfin, which have come back very strongly in our memory since the recent desecration of the monument. These are images that have caused pain, which are black spots in our country's modern history. It is therefore clear that this unregulated situation can no longer continue. The government, with this bill, has done the self-evident thing, which has been in force for decades in all civilised countries, has made a central commitment to the Greek people, which is nothing other than to put order and finally regulate the status of public meetings. This is a flagrant reform that does not just have acceptance, but is now a requirement of the overwhelming majority of Greek society. It also shields the right of citizens to protest, protest, express their views, but it also follows specific rules and, in particular, with respect for the rights of others, the right to life, property, freedom of movement, public security and social peace. That is why the grounds for banning or dismantling are also mentioned in order to avoid any margin of misinterpretation, and specifically a reasoned decision is required to that effect. And not just that. The legislative improvements submitted by the Minister for the prohibition require the assent of the President of the Courts, and the presence and assent of the Advocates-General, therefore, and binding the case-law of the Court of First Instance, must be dismantled. And the unfounded screams of Officer Opposition and the populism of fascist inspiration and supposedly banning demonstrations can only cause grief. At no point in the bill there is no ban on any citizen's right to protest. Nowhere and by any Article thereof it appears that any kind of authorisation is required. Thus, in no case is the argument of the Officer's opposition that the core of the constitutional right is affected. The establishment of legitimate restrictions, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, as in this case, is absolutely unacceptable in the constitutional order, as weightings are made with other constitutional rights, and the fundamental assumption of the formal legal equivalence of all constitutional provisions is well taken into account as a starting point. You will allow me to say even about the provision which has been made a great deal of talk about the organisation's objective responsibility. It does not appear, ladies and gentlemen, that an objective civil liability exists for the organiser, as the organisation's existence or not will then be judged by a competent court. The regulations of the bill do not affect the right of assembly. On the contrary, they demarcate and protect it. They have been protecting it from those who have been smuggling it for years and are seeking to upset themselves, not to mention the rights of the majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, you can no longer convince these difficult times about your progressive face and that you are serving both meditation and dream. You must now realize that the Greeks, and especially the new generation of Greeks, have returned a page, that it is the time of national understanding and that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is here to unite the Greeks and does not hesitate to accept proposals when they are not put to a sterile confrontation. This is a fruitful parliamentary dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have the luxury of losing a single day. The demonstration bill will be passed today by a large majority - I hope - but it will also be implemented immediately, because this is a requirement for Greek citizens. And that's a democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u585	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle and articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection is closed: 'Public outdoor meetings and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, as well as on Article 19 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u586	I will not read out the list of signatories to the request for Members to establish whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure, because they are all here, they have been given, they are present and they are considered to be the required number. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, as well as on Articles 19 and 22 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u587	I will not read out the list of signatories to the request for Members to establish whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure, because they are all here, they have been given, they are present and they are considered to be the required number. Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, as well as on Article 19 of the draft law by Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u588	I will not read out the list of signatories to the request for Members to establish whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure, because they are all here, they have been given, they are present and they are considered to be the necessary number. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u589	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept, ladies and gentlemen, that we should put the two votes together in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u590	The House agrees. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, 19 and 22 of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u591	Mr President, there has been a mistake. The Change Movement has requested a roll-call vote on Article 21.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u592	We'll fix it if it's written wrong. The Change Movement has put nominal on the principle and on Articles 1 to 14, as well as Articles 19 and 21. We're fixing it. That's what happens. There was a little mistake, typical, by the Change Movement, because an article has been repealed. I therefore correct again, following their speeches, that it is Article 22 in the Change Movement and not Article 21. We note that the vote includes the beginning of the bill and sixteen articles. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen, scroll down. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted on all the seventeen areas included in the vote. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber at the end of the procedure in order to vote for the other articles in the bill. As you have been informed by your parliamentary groups, your turnout will be per 100 Members and every 15 minutes to avoid conspiracy in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u593	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter by my colleague and I'm Vice-President of Parliament, Nikita Kaklamani, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that, if he were here, he would vote 'yes'. Members' letters, and so on, have been sent to the Bureau. Athanasios Papadopoulos, Andreas Michaelides, Anna Vageas, Spyridon Lappa and Georgios Borentos, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present, they would vote 'no'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u594	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u595	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. The principle of the draft law: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 187 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 101 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 1 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 187 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 101 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 2 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 177 MPs. In other words, 111 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 3 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 176 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 102 MPs. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 4 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In addition, 158 Members voted in favour. In other words, 120 Members voted against. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 5 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 177 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 101 MPs. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 6 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 186 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 102 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 7 of the bill: A total of 287 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 168 MPs. In other words, 119 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 8 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 176 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 102 MPs. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 9 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In addition, 157 Members voted in favour. In other words, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 10 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 168 MPs. In other words, 120 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 187 MPs. In other words, 'OH', they voted 101 MPs. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 12 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 176 MPs. In other words, 112 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 13 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In addition, 157 Members voted in favour. In other words, 131 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 14 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In addition, 157 Members voted in favour. In other words, 121 Members voted against. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 19 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In addition, 157 Members voted in favour. In other words, 131 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 22 of the bill: A total of 288 Members voted. In addition, 277 Members voted in favour. In other words, 'OH', they voted 1 Member. 'PARON' were voted 10 MPs. Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u596	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles of the bill. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and the special speakers. We note that the vote includes six articles, the hotel article and the whole. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u597	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u598	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u599	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: ‘Public outdoor meetings and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u600	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u601	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the minutes of the sittings of Thursday 14 May 2020, Friday 15 May 2020, Monday 18 May 2020 (morning and afternoon), Tuesday 19 May 2020 (morning and afternoon), Wednesday 20 May 2020 (morning and afternoon), Thursday 21 May 2020, Friday 22 May 2020, Monday 25 May 2020, Wednesday 27 May 2020 (morning and noon) and Friday 29 May 2020 and asked the House whether it validates them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u602	The minutes of the meetings of Thursday 14 May 2020, Friday 15 May 2020, Monday 18 May 2020 (morning and afternoon), Tuesday 19 May 2020 (morning and afternoon), Wednesday 20 May 2020 (morning and afternoon), Thursday 21 May 2020, Friday 22 May 2020, Wednesday 25 May 2020, Wednesday 27 May 2020 (morning and noon) and Friday 29 May 2020 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-09-S1-commons.u603	With the agreement of the House at 23.45 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 10 July 2020, and 9.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
