ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 3-9-2020, the minutes of the PKY meeting, on Thursday 3 September with regard to the vote on all draft laws were ratified by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Application of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to prevent the theft, smuggling of excavations and the illegal importation, export or transfer of property or property of cultural or cultural property and the promotion of their restoration’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Following the Agreement on the Development of Cinema Symphony between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television Division of the People's Republic of China." 3. ‘Preparation of the Film Co-production Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the State of Israel’ 4. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on cooperation in the field of tourism’) We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Mr Stelios Koutnatzis, Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, informs us of the topical and urgent questions of Friday 4 September today's sitting. The Question No 935/31-8-20 and Question No 7908/2-20 under Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The question under number 997/31-8-2020 will also be answered by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. Questions Nos 992/31-8-2020 and 996/31-8-2020 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. 'Please take the appropriate steps to inform both the honourable Members and the Ministers.' They have already been informed and are here and we are starting with the first question of the cycle of Reports - Questions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject of "Modification and exploitation of the skills and experience of those who have worked, work or work in employment programmes". Before I give the floor to Mr Kegeroglou, I would also ask the attending ministers, but also the questioners, to keep time ahead of the fact that they will immediately meet two committees in the House at the same time because of the coronary, so that there will be a space for comfort. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We'll try to keep the time. The question, of course, has been tabled in the first place, but its topicality and content continue to have a timely effect. It concerns the mobilisation and exploitation of the expertise and experience of those who have worked, work or work in specific programmes in public and, of course, in the wider public sector. In November 2018, a call was issued for five and a half thousand unemployed graduates of higher education, universities and TEI, for the ages of twenty-two to twenty-nine years in order to support the services of EKA, EEAS, social welfare centres. Eventually three thousand six hundred were hired. Their contracts are over. There was a request at the time for renewal at the end of the contracts, but it was not met by the Government. The question, however, has other contents today. With the KYA, which was issued for the proclamation of the thirty-six thousand five hundred unemployed who will be employed in the public works programme, there was a 20-mile mobilisation for those who have worked on public employment promotion programmes in the period 2014-2020, which excluded the mobilisation and evaluation of the specialisation and specific experience acquired by the three thousand six hundred scientists who worked in the public sector, the ECA, the EEA and the social welfare centres as well as other services, as I said. The question, therefore, is how the state and the Ministry of Labour will take advantage of the specific experience, the expertise that these higher education graduates have actually acquired, workers in the OAED programme, since the invitation that came out in June was effectively excluded, did not take into account this specialization and the experience gained by workers in public bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I agree that the three thousand six hundred benefiting graduates have offered the public administration a great deal of work during the twelve-month OAED special programme. They have successfully worked and gained considerable experience that will be useful in their professional course and their integration into the labour market. With regard to your question about the moleculosis system, the new public-private programme for thirty-six thousand people in municipalities, regions, social welfare centres and related public service providers and other bodies has indeed been moleculated with twenty molecules for the benefit of the beneficiaries not placed in public programmes for the 2014-2020 programming period. In short, those graduates who applied for the public-private programme and had not participated in a public-private programme in previous years received twenty molecules on the basis of this criterion from the total eight selection and classification criteria. You say that the experience of graduates should also be mobilized to give them priority. That is to say to take twenty molecules from participating in previous public programmes and get molecules for their participation in the special programme. But that would be unfair, Mr President, to all the other unemployed who have never benefited from participation in OAS programmes. I should like to remind you that the public benefit programme places particular emphasis on vulnerable groups in the population which face a high risk of exclusion, such as long-term unemployed, under-qualified people, and need to work at first instance in a protected environment in order to integrate them into the labour market and avoid marginalisation, while maintaining their job capacity. The main aim of the programme is to reconnect the long-term unemployed and vulnerable groups on the labour market. Therefore, moleculosis in the public benefit gives priority to long-term older unemployed and with lower economic income and not on the basis of formal qualifications such as pre-service or other non-economic and social criteria. I should also like to remind you that the unemployed up to twenty-nine were not entitled to submission. Unemployed graduates were entitled to apply regardless of age. We appreciate and respect the offer of the programme of graduates to the public through their participation, and we want to support them and all the unemployed graduates. However, we want to support them through programmes which can lead to permanent full-time jobs, namely programmes aimed at the private sector. Therefore, instead of giving them false hopes of permanentization to the public through the slope, we seek to enable them to claim access to the labour market with a view to increasing and not recycling unemployment. With regard to the Government's intentions to exploit the experience of the three thousand six hundred graduates, the Government has proved by means of acts that prioritise the subsidisation of work and the Ministry of Labour has implemented through the OAED as a core operational arm to combat unemployment and promote employment, a series of employment programmes designed with a view to maximum absorption and more effective promotion of the unemployed in employment. In particular, over and above the thirty-six thousand jobs of the public benefit programme in the summer, five more projects were launched with twenty-nine thousand new five hundred subsidized jobs for all the unemployed age groups, of which the first is three and a half thousand unemployed graduates twenty-three to twenty-nine and the second is eight thousand unemployed eighteen to twenty-nine years of all education degrees. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you've got two different things involved. First of all, we must say that the last refuge for vulnerable and vulnerable groups is, of course, the programmes of a public nature, the general ones, where the main criterion is that the person who has been in unemployment for a long time should not be cut off and at the same time is having problems with work and social progress. We're talking about something different here. We are talking about higher education graduates who worked in the public sector, public bodies, and have acquired concrete experience, not only through their work, but also through their training. Even in public work programmes, you know that the first phase, the first one and a half months - I do not know exactly - is devoted to their training in order to carry out their activity. So we have scientists who in public have gained experience, trained for something specific, and what we ask is this: will there be evaluation, there will be use of this expertise and the general experience they have gained and in what way? That's our question. The general point you said, that you are interested in taking them to the private sector, and so on, is it not, because the 30 000 five-and-a-half notice is not about the private sector, is it? How they will be absorbed in the private sector is something that has to do with other parameters, but let us not open up this wider debate, focus on whether you should, if you feel the obligation for a certain category of people who are higher education scientists who have special experience and specialisation, take advantage of the Ministry of Labour's notices. I would like to say to you in general that there is the will of the government expressed by the Ministry of the Interior here. Your Government is therefore coming under Article 21 of the draft law now before us, which says that for what concerns it not only contracts can be renewed, but also provides for the renewal of contracts if the programme has not expired. In other words, if we have a two-three-year programme, the one-year contract can be renewed until the end of the programme. It therefore allows and provides for the renewal of contracts, but it refers specifically to experience. For example, it says ‘seven units per month of experience for the overall experience and a hundred and twenty etc.’. Why? If we have acquired this experience in tasks or projects related to the subject-matter of the qualification or to the subject-matter of the post to be filled. In other words, if we want to take thirty scientists - thirty informatics or other specialties - to help with the work that is being done in EVA, and while we already have a programme that ended and there are people who have learned the job - just to say it - and have acquired skills and knowledge about the subject, we come and say 'I do not see you doing more because you are doing more in the spirit than in the eight or twelve months that I will recruit you with the program you will pay back and go back to the general.' Let us make it clear: we are not talking about general programmes concerning vulnerable and vulnerable groups. We are referring to the graduates of higher education who received education, training and have therefore acquired expertise and expertise in public bodies. I think it is worth discussing, but also drawing up specific decisions, so that this specific experience in programmes is taken into account. Of course, notices to the AACC shall be taken into account in the light of decisions. We have examples, such as 'Help at Home', the notice made with the citizens' services centres. We have, for example, several notices, but now I am talking about the decisions of the Ministry of Labour itself concerning both programmes and programmes, whether they relate to contractors or to permanent jobs. Will they take advantage of this special experience these people have gained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin - apart from the position I am going to make, by specialising the programmes that we are developing as the Ministry of Labour, which is very important, that the Greek society and the entrepreneurship of our country learn what advantages and incentives we give to recruit tens of thousands of young people in our country or even unemployed today - with a small observation on what Mr Kegeroglu said. Mr Kegeroglu at the end, at the end of his speech, confirmed that in fact the Greek state, when it comes to certain specific public competitions, takes into account the experience that is recorded through the programs. That's what he mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u9	Except the Ministry of Labour!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u10	But in his previous position he made a reasonable leap. He tried to make a leap of logic in the sense that he says if we have these three thousand five hundred workers today, they will have specific re-entry molecules. Here comes a question: What time does it take, Mr Kegeroglu? From now on? So, what does that mean for the three thousand five hundred? That they have the comparative advantage and we embrace them and we tell them that you will be the ones that will permanently enter and recycle into programs? Because with Mr Kegeroglu's logic - be careful! - these people will never be fired, they will be constantly on programs and on all programs they will enter themselves for too many years. That's wrong. What Mr Kegeroglu says is out of reality and rational. These programs go in, Mr Kegeroglu, - and you know it very well, not to mock the ears and hit the hand in the back and close the eye to social groups - to get a job experience that the unemployed person, who has become a worker for a certain period of time, will be able to get out of the production process, and not to get motives and through mobilisation to reinstate. Because in the sense of Mr Kegeroglu, these people and anyone who is unemployed will never leave the Ministry of Labour's programmes, they will be themselves. We will give them molecules too high and they will be re-entered. This is wrong, against the philosophy and logic of the Ministry of Labour and the OAED. Now, on the basis of my opportunity, I deserve to say a few things about the unemployed and the businesses. The projects, which, Mr President, we have recently developed in the Ministry of Labour through our strongest arm, are: Firstly, the 'Students' programme twenty-nine-nine-year-olds for three and a half thousand new jobs in enterprises in the private sector, over ten months, with a grant of 75% of the monthly wage and non-wage costs and a maximum of EUR 750. Here, then, is a glorious field for young scientists to join this program. Secondly, the Unemployment Programme eighteen to twenty-nine years of any educational grade has eight thousand new jobs in private sector enterprises of 12 months for the unemployed and 15 months for the long-term unemployed and the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, with a 75% subsidy for the monthly wage and non-wage costs and a maximum of 750 euros. Thirdly, the Long-term Unemployment Programme of fifty-five to sixty-seven years has eight and a half thousand positions in legal entities governed by public law, public enterprises, and in enterprises of the municipalities and regions, with a duration of 12 months with the possibility of extending for an additional 12 months - twelve plus twelve - with a grant of 75% of the monthly wage and non-wage costs and a ceiling of EUR 750 per month. Fourthly, the Thirty-thirty-thirty-three-and-three-three-year work programme has over eight thousand three-and-a-half jobs in private enterprises, with the possibility of extending for an additional nine or twelve months for long-term unemployed, with a subsidy of 75% of the monthly wage and non-wage costs and a ceiling of EUR 750 monthly. Fifthly, the Employment and Disabled Social Groups programme has a thousand two hundred positions in private and public enterprises, as well as in companies in the municipalities and regions of 12 months, with the possibility of extending for a further 12 months and 90% of the monthly wage and non-wage costs and a maximum of 800 euros a month. Now, for the programs in question...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u11	To conclude, Minister, because it was wrongly delayed my time. It started a minute and a half later on my mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President, but it is worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u13	Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u14	From the 15 and 22 July that the programmes started to date, we have more than fifteen thousand applications for the twenty-nine thousand five hundred posts. In other words, within this short period these programmes have a absorption of more than 51%, which according to the comparative data of the OAED is too high and satisfactory and encouraging. Employers respond to attractive work subsidisation programmes with strong incentives and simplified procedures. At the same time, five thousand new jobs have been activated from the beginning of June with a grant of up to 60% of the wage and non-wage costs for graduated unemployed up to 30 years of age to be recruited in enterprises, in nine areas of smart qualifications for 15 months. We are motivating instruments of attractive employment programmes for the recruitment of unemployed, particularly in the private sector, and we support the efforts of all the unemployed to exploit their knowledge, skills and experience in full-time jobs. The OAED programs and the state and the Ministry of Labour have a single objective, and there is the funding of resources: To give experience, knowledge, knowledge, experience, experience, children, young people, different categories of work outside the labour market, so that when they take it, they can have supplies, in order to normally enter the labour market, to work in the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u15	The second question will be debated under number 995/31-8-2020 on the second time question by the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Truesome problems in the functioning of the EFKA farmers". Mr Brutsis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is a matter that you know about. I'm sure you know that, and I'm sure it's also your concern. The parts of the e-ECA farmers throughout the territory are confronted with many malfunctions. It is, of course, very typical of the example of e-Government farmers in Central Greece, which has been on the table for too long - and you know it - in a residual function, with delays in the issue of pensions which may be up to three years. Unfortunately, it is too many years for farmers. There, of course, in Central Greece, in Lamia, the number of employees is inadequate, so that farmers and pensioners cannot be served by the whole region of Central Greece. In particular, according to information, there are four employees employed in the FAO of farmers, who are adopting retirement decisions for the pensioners of the former OGA of all the counties serving the rural part of e-ECA, i.e. Evritania, Fthiotida, Fokida, Boeotia and Evia, and also includes the island of Skyros. Unfortunately, they are incomplete and the project that you have done and piloted you started from Central Greece, to expand the network for the service of farmers through the local branches of EFKA, as the transfer of responsibilities, Minister, from the structures of the former OGA, was limited to matters of register and other contributions insurance. Unfortunately, however, the very important part of the pensions has remained outside, and you also know that. However, farmers are in a difficult economic situation - it is well known to everyone - which is also anchored by the well-known issue of the pandemic. They have been waiting for years to retire. They still haven't taken. And unfortunately, Minister, since 2016, these governments have made these farmers pensioners without pensions. Questions are therefore raised, as despite the efforts that have been made, it remains the question of retirement incomplete, it remains unresolved and these people are wronged. What actions do you intend to take to resolve this long-term problem? What action do you think you should take from now on? Because the delay in the retirement of farmers for three years and the situation continues is something which is not acceptable to either of us and to you, of course, to anyone. So I want you to tell us today what action you are going to take so that this phenomenon can be eradicated. It can't go on. You have said this here in the House in your honor. But it cannot continue after all that people have suffered and, of course, the efforts that have been made, which starts "ATLAS" and has given a course. However, we have an issue that you know and I would ask you to answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u18	Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to thank you very much for this question, because you are giving me the opportunity and the opportunity before the National Representation to place me in the insurance, the diseases to which you refer and the primary sector of our country. I would therefore like to start with a few things that you may not know, because they are the latest developments and they are justified. First and foremost, I should like to make known to the national delegation that the insurance reform of Law 4670/2020, which we voted on here in February of this year, is the most encouraging for farmers in the primary sector of insurance reform in the history of our country. I have 12 interventions, which, for reasons of short question, I cannot mention in detail, but I will submit to them in the Minutes - and it seems that for the first time in my country, an insurance law is so close to the agricultural primary sector of our country, either from the special insurance classes, or because it allows them to have a single pension for the first time, or because it gives them the first time in the history of the insurance right to receive a supplementary pension, or because it gives them a total exemption if they are working as pensioners for not having a reduction in their pensionable age, or because the heterogeneous people have reached the income of EUR 10,000 and without a reduction in their pension. That is, this government has done for the primary sector through the insurance sector what has never been done in our country's history. I therefore address the twelve interventions of the insurance company, which concentrate on these positive actions in favour of farmers and the primary sector. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, Mr Mulkiotis, I come to your question that the answers here are catalysts. First and foremost, I agree with you. Mr President, I would like some time, because this is a very important issue. I'll say in my denture, but I'll start with the findings. Mr. Mulkiotis, indeed your party, to which you belong as PASOK old, Change Movement now, SYRIZA, New Democracy in all the years of the country's governance, we have had various problems with regard to insurance. Two dominant structural pathogens existed. I'm not talking about the insurance logic. They were so-called virtual or fake pensions and outstanding pensions. These two were gangrene for the insurance. Indeed - my Undersecretary was Mr Kegeroglu when in 2012 - with titanium efforts we defeated the first pathogen, which was a pathogen of decades: forty thousand false pensions in the insurance system. Some people were retired, and we could never find them. Five billion has burdened the insurance system over the past few years. Indeed, with "HLIO" and "ARIADNIS" during this period and at political cost, because we submitted a large test of pensioners for a self-registered census on June 1, 2013, the country's insurance system was first started and mapped with "LIO". Until then, we didn't know the insurance details. Neither studies could be made of how many pensioners we had, nor how many pensions we did not know who the pensioners were. Since June 1st 2013, we have learned that since "ARIADNIS" had worked and no burial could take place in Greece if we hadn't taken AMKA first, the "monkey" pensions were defeated. And indeed, the first great pathogen was defeated for the days of governance at that time, Samara. So we defeated the first great pathogen. I now come to the second largest pathogen. The second major pathogen indeed existed and I don't blame the past. In SYRIZA, however, I put my responsibilities and I say it over time, because he was mocking four and a half years Greek society by saying that there are no outstanding pensions and it turned out to be hundreds of thousands of those we inherited. In other words, Mrs Ahtsoglou and SYRIZA kept mocking Greek society with a presence on television. I mean, we're judging the lie. Indeed, it's a pathogen second and very big. And the question is how to beat her. In time I said, and I say that it is not treated with appointments of more than one employee, it is treated with a major structural change, the one that in 2014 we had ready and stopped ideologically by SYRIZA and called "ATLAS" by digital pension. Mr. Mulkiotis, I'll tell you the good news in my denture. I will only say something that is already known in Greek society. The Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, came to the Ministry of Labour and we launched together the biggest reform of insurance. On 23 July 2020, a historic date began the operation of the “ATLAS” digital pension system. It started for two major categories, the farmers who submitted from that moment onwards and after their application for retirement and the cause of death, the widowhood, the two most sensitive categories. From that day on, farmers shall take their pension, Mr President, listen to this, not in three years, not in two years, not in months, not in weeks, but in one second. And there are now thousands of pensions issued from that date in a second. So, to all those voices that were hearing in here the previous period and criticising me that this is not going to happen, I say, it is a conquest of the Greek people. The rest of the thank you for the farmers, I will tell you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u19	Very interesting, Minister, that. I hope that it will, in practice, make good sense, as you say. But you have also exhausted your dentistry and I ask you to take it into account. Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, what you mentioned in relation to the insurance voted in February 2020 is indeed true. He predicted what he predicted. It is true that this was anticipated and will be judged in practice. "ATLAS" has already started to issue digital pensions, yes. However, the question of e-farmers remains. We've been talking about late retirement for three years. You know that. You remember that about a year ago, in October 2019, we had again discussed here with me, again, about the e-Facilists of Central Greece in particular. Today we are talking about all of Greece. At the e-Government of Central Greek farmers, we had explained it, we had said it, you admitted that there were delays. Well, these same delays actually exist today. And that's our question, Minister. We have no doubts that e-ECA, the "ATLAS" system, issues pensioners for young pensioners. Indeed, as you said, it is. What about the retarded ones? There are huge numbers that have been delayed and no pensions issued. The system's flawed. And can I tell you something? I was surprised because you're saying it's not just about employees, it'll be issued automatically. Aren't you going to need a data transfer to this system? Aren't you going to need a check? Should this not be done by someone who has a specialty or has a little knowledge of things? How's that gonna happen? Automatically they cannot be done, some checks need to be carried out. So there must be the necessary human potential, not just the human resources, but the skilled potential. It is well known that it is not only in Lamia that the question of e-Faca farmers is also in Patras, it is also in Larissa, it is everywhere. There's a question. The system for old farmers has been shattered, not the retired, and they are the lucky ones, I would say. But I do not think anyone needs to be pleased today, to have two speed farmers or two speed pensioners, and in any case, no pensioners without a pension. That's what I call them. You may also adopt this. Because they are indeed retired and not retired. And we're not talking about any category of people, we're talking about farmers, and you know very well what that means. In any case, the residual function of the e-Government of farmers with the slightest, the lack of staff and the data of the potential error. One cannot deal with everything, while in the other services pension awarding is self-sufficient, and one deals with it and controls another makes it, etc. These are facilities and procedures which exist and indeed receive pensions better. But there is a question here. Minister, please: What do we do now? That's the big one now. How do you see it and how will the government see it? Because since 2019 we had spoken and you had just been elected to the government and said that you will see the issue, the loose end, 2016-2017. How many years? How do we deal with it? What are you gonna say? And you have to say today, Minister, what will happen to farmers, to the EFKA of farmers throughout the territory, how they will get the pensions, how the unfinishedity of the delays will end, not to them from now on, but to the past. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u21	Minister, please take note of your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, allow me now, because it is time to tell Mr Mulkootis through his question - well-deserved at all times - the pleasant developments in this matter. But let me make an effort to interpret what Mr Mulkiotis says, which I accept is a good thing. Mr Mulkiotis requires the Minister for Labour, today, to solve a problem that exists in the country for fifty years. And it is now demanding a solution. Consider, Mr Mulkiotis, that I did not bring the happy news that all future pensioners in our country will automatically receive their pension, that I did not have this weapon to say as a minister, created by this government, created by this Minister with his staff, with this administration of e-ECA, Christos Hallaris, the excellent commander of e-ECA along with his sub-government and the exceptional staff. We did something we had committed since 2014 and it is coming now, which means, Mr Mulkiotis, that all the new generations of workers will be retired in a few seconds. What other answer can someone give for this? In fact, you are now telling me, through your question,'solve the existing problem', which, as you can see, will decline. Because year after year, as a human resource is released by e-ECA and will not be involved in new pensions, a 50-year-old problem will be solved and solved. But I am going more specifically to answer for the farmers. I have just submitted to you the twelve important positive contributions from insurance 4670 in favour of the primary sector. Secondly, Mr Mulkiotis, I should like to extend the matter to farmers a little. What did we inherit? I would like to give you two - three figures for your party to be informed, because it also has a value. Because when we took over the ministry's steering wheel, I did not believe in my eyes for two - three things more for farmers. Firstly, it was given, it had never been given, I don't know, an atypical order and the funeral expenses forty-five thousand farmers had never been given, it was in bags. Marriage costs since 2015. Forty-five thousand. And I have been asked, 'What have you done with the expenses?' You asked her, and I'll answer you for that. Secondly, what is going on with the farmers, who I agree with you, with the current pensions? What did SYRIZA do? The organization of the e-ECA had only seven service centres for farmers throughout Greece. Seven centres, seven reference points across Greece. And you did admit it. We have come, the administration of e-ECA and has extended the responsibility of farmers throughout Greece to serve farmers. The first priority is farmers. You accepted it, too, and we started piloting in December 2019, January 2020 with Central Greece. In fact, there is a recognition that practical interest has been shown administratively and there is also a more good deal to do, without solving problems and diseases in all regions in favour of farmers. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Secondly - I go slowly - what we did with funeral expenses, the forty-five thousand loose ends. What did we do? Firstly, we have also solved the problem of the future here. Since 7 July 2020, what SYRIZA did not do and could have done so, we solved it. I came into consultation, in the midst of a pandemic, with teleconferencing with the ceremonies offices, there was a framework agreement and we first built an electronic platform, and from July 7, 2020, and then, whatever funeral, funeral expenses are paid automatically. Black money appeared, hidden through the documentaries, red tape is being lost, 100 thousand less transactions in e-ECA with this government's move, this administration of the Ministry of Labour. For the past that SYRIZA has inherited us, which has commanded that funeral expenses should not be paid, I am pleased to tell you that of the forty-five thousand funeral expenses, thirty-five thousand have been paid since June and until the end of November, all of them will be repaid. All forty-five thousand unfinished items in the cost of a farmer's funeral bag will be given. There's only ten thousand left. So I also inform you on the basis of the question you asked well and asked me. Secondly, with the farmers' unprecedented pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u23	You're short, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I am pleased to say - and this is what the 'ATLAS' function is already well known - that the House now accepts that there is a digital system for pensions coming out in a second - that the next two months will come a new application of the 'ATLAS' which all of the remaining - take care now - of widow and peasant pensions will come digitalally. And that, Mr Mulkiotis, will be within the next two months. I repeat that good cooperation is very important, having good partners. The excellent commander of e-Efka, who has the know-how and knowledge on these issues, with the design and persistence, has succeeded in the next two months in all the outstanding pensions of the farmers and all the outstanding widows' pensions, that is to say those that entered into the first wave of the digital “ATLAS” system, to come back and pay retrospectively. So what's gonna happen? For the first time in Greece there will be neither an outstanding pension for farmers nor an outstanding widow's pension, not now, but forever. And let me close, saying something that is very important. That is what I would like to see as information to you, Mr President, for your law, for the law of every fellow Member. Many people ask when it's a good thing to retire. In addition to the procedural procedures, which are for everyone, we presented to the Ministry of Labour the timetable for the implementation of the "ATLAS". For example, in March 2021, the following wave, disability pensions and doctors' pensions will be given in November 2021 private sector and public sector, employees plus engineers and in December 2021 lawyers, lawyers and journalists. So when does it benefit a doctor, for example, who can or can work in the private sector apply? It is interesting, if it can, to apply when the "ATLAS" system is in operation to get its pension in seconds. It's not something I recommend, I just quote the facts. Each decides when to submit a request for a pension. But as a logic of the "ATLAS" timeline, if you do not want to be troubled with bureaucratic and waiting times, you can watch the schedule make the application for retirement, just at the very time that your category will automatically and digitally work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u25	The next two topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna - Maria Michaelidou. We continue with the second with number 992/31-8-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Boeotian Movement of Change, Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Except for CIDs and children's stations of over sixty-five thousand children". Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, what now happened to the JAPDs? The announcement of the final results of the action "Family and Occupational Life Harmonization" highlighted the government's behaviour regarding the exercise of social policy and the practical support of the Greek family with children with just EUR 97 million for the NSAs and CIDs. The same amount, however, existed last year, but we have multiple applications. We are talking about having thirty - three thousand seventy - six applications this year for sixty - seven thousand applications last year, that is, sixty - sixty - six thousand more applications this year. Nearly half of the children, over sixty-five thousand, will not be hosted this year in creative employment centres. Municipal CSRs are a very important tool for municipal social policy, since we know that they provide free services of culture, sport, artistic education, strengthening teaching in tens of thousands of families and districts of unemployed, working, low-skilled, self-employed people with minimal and low wages. It is self-evident and undeniable that all applications should be covered, Minister, in order not to exclude tens of thousands of children from this provision of services from municipal CSR, but also not to jeopardise the dismissal, likewise, of thousands of workers in these CSRs. And that can only be done by a certain move, and we believe that it is the financing of the system. Of course, you know that in the school year 2014-2015, after cooperation between the CEDEFOP and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour at the time, there was funding from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, from which year almost 100% of applications were covered in a second division. The question is a single one: What are you going to do, Minister, will there be a commitment to implementing the government's commitment that no child will be left out of children's, infantry stations and CSR? What steps will you take to ensure that as many children as possible are involved in the municipal CSR, that employment is continued, too, for those workers in these structures and, of course, for the sustainability of the relevant municipal bodies? And finally, would we like you to answer if you have the purpose and the political will, that there should be cooperation through co-financing with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which was ensured by 2015? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u27	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Papoutsis, I begin with a point. I do not know why in your question you detestably call our Government Conservative and in what direction you are doing this. I know, however, that our approach is that of efficiency and that of responsibility. That's why he insists on our government doing the announcements, and I'm glad you've closed down with the commitment of my Prime Minister, my Minister, and mine for no child outside the nursery station. So no child, except for kindergarten. This is our election commitment, and that is precisely the commitment that we have made. And that's why? Because we are fully aware of the importance of both the development of the child within an organised structure, such as that of the nursery and the needs of the family and especially of the mother, of being able to join the labour market under the conditions which she wants and the existence of her child, his care for the morning is not an intercepting factor for it. In particular, during this year 2020-2021, we have set for the first time not another two programmes for nursery schools, so as to ensure, on the one hand, access for children to them, and on the other hand, the free market, as I said, the free choice of women in the labour market. In particular, why say two programs? We are out-of-date the first programme for harmonising family and working life, as you know, with a budget of 279 million, giving a total of 50 000 coupons to private mothers working in the private sector. But we didn't stay there. We created, with resources from the Ministry of Labour, the so-called parallel program. What did we do in the parallel programme, for which my Minister, and the Prime Minister, and all the leadership of the Ministry of Labour insisted and insisted very much? What we have done is that, for the first time, we have created a new parallel programme, in which we incorporate fifteen thousand more children, fifteen thousand more mothers, with increased income limits of EUR 3 000 for each child, but we are also correcting an injustice of decades. Who's that? For the first time, we include mothers of civil servants, mothers, who work either in public or in municipal bodies. So we increase income limits by 3,000 euros for every child and integrate all the mothers who work in the public sector. Thus, with this new parallel programme, whose invitation from the EBRD was already on the Internet yesterday, the invitation was opened yesterday - we are increasing by 18% the beneficiaries of the nurseries. So there was no child outside the nursery who applied for the new increased criteria and stayed outside. Now, as far as CIDs and CIDs are concerned, I would like to point out here that CIDs and CIDs, i.e. Creative employment centres, are centres which employ children after the age of infants. Is that right? They are centres which employ children from five to twelve years for the afternoon hours - they have two shifts - and the ACEBs for children who are mostly adults and employ them from morning to afternoon. In particular, I'm going to talk about the CIDs in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u30	Madam Minister, the question was about CIDs and ASAs. You spoke, indeed, about everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u31	And it was about the commitment! Didn't you tell me any kids outside of kindergarten?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u32	Madam Minister, you have spoken about everything except the CIDs and AIDs. The one word you have made was not an answer, at least, to protology. We would like to hear your views in order to have the denology and say anything else we have to say. There was no such possibility. The question is very clear. I think you didn't answer. I'm sorry. You have not responded clearly. You said about the commitment, yes, to kindergartens. The question was, however, one: CSR and CSR. There is a major problem, a huge problem. The Pan-Hellenic Association of Workers at the ACEBs and the municipalities has been mentioned as ‘previously dangerous and disastrous development caused by this planning of the Ministry’. There's a big deal. There are families who had the prerequisites, privileges, molecules and are excluded. Over 50% of the children written each year will be left outside CSR structures. We refer to the municipalities of Preveza, Aktiou, Alexandria, Xylokastro, Nafpatia, Chios, Troizinia, Erymanthos, Aristotle, Argos, Mycenas, Pellas, Ziru, Painting, Carditsas, Nea Zignis Serres and many others. There are other references, Minister, from municipalities that have been excluded even 2/3 of children. For example, not limiting: Municipality of Farsalon, Skydra, Sacred City of Mesologiu, Kassandra, Polygyros, Serres, Samothraki, Almyros, Zitsas, Igoumenitsa, Florina, Orestia, Alexandroupolis, Lagada, Larissa, Artaios and others. It's just a matter, it's a loose end. You didn't answer. There's a question. The kids have grown up in structures. They are children written every year since they went to kindergarten, children whose parents have no alternative or economic potential for their children to participate in other educational and extra-school activities or to pay someone. I repeat and say to you that it concerns children, Minister, who were there every year in these structures, which were going to kindergarten, children whose parents have no alternative or economic potential for something else - they cannot, they cannot - and they found the poster in the JAPDs. Right now they can't. Did I say again that the Prime Minister's commitment is this result? Minister, you gave me a protology, which was incomplete, and I now wanted, in these few minutes I have to tell you the problems that exist. I told you about dozens of municipalities - not one - and that was indicative. There is a major issue, which is not covered and your answer does not cover us, not me, but it does not cover the parties concerned. They stay under 50% of applications outside. It is a given, which you do not admit, do you not accept? In any case, what about this given given and the objections of the municipalities - a series of municipalities - who have this problem and are referring to exclusion? That is the first question. Secondly, if you accept, you must answer what is happening and if you do not accept, explain why you do not accept and what answer you will give the parents of these children. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u33	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u34	Mr Mulkiotis, I started with the commitment of the Prime Minister and how we acted on this commitment to nurseries, because behind your question there is a misunderstanding. The misunderstanding is not one of you, you know, and in particular, how much of my sympathy you are. But the misunderstanding is that because nursery and CIDs come out of the same program, it's the same thing. It's not the same thing. When we committed ourselves to 'no child outside of the nursery', we did not commit the CIDs. We were tied up for the morning hospitality units of babies and infants, and we did that. So getting things out, getting various associations out and saying that we didn't do that is at least untrue. We did it, and the invitation is from yesterday online. Now for the CFP, I would like to mention three points, which I think will be especially enlightened by them. Three points I want to make. The first point is that applications for AIPs and AIPs within one year increased by 65%, i.e. almost doubled. We had sixty-seven thousand applications, ten thousand applications within one year. To cover this, you know what an increase in the budget for the CFPs is needed? Increasing 64%. So we should go from 103 to 170 million in such a difficult financial year, without having committed ourselves to this, and without having predicted it, because the commitments provide for a planning plan, they provide for an organisation, they provide for computerisation. That is not how commitments are made from one day to the next. The second point is that this year's doubling of applications is due to the fact that CSR structures have more than doubled. Within one year private CSR units in the country - it is very important that the National Parliament should know this - increased in one year from four hundred sixty-five - we are talking about building orgasm at least - in a thousand forty-three. In other words, private CSR units in one year increased by 124%. Municipalities increased by 63%. Within a year, therefore, even the municipalities, with all the bureaucratic obstacles that the public has, increased from four hundred and twenty-four to six hundred ninety. In other words, we have more than doubled all structures, new structures, but also almost doubled the capacity of the existing ones. So you have a state, which, at one, in a year without having predicted it, has a more than doubled CSR units, has an increase of 64% of applications and a budget that has not changed it. In other words, we have exactly - you said so in your question - the same budget as last year. In fact, what did we do? We managed to incorporate 25% more disabled children into CIDD. This year, for the first time, five thousand disabled children enter CSR. You know, these disabled children's CSRs have five times the highest coupon. So - so as not to bore the Members of this House too - I want to end up with two things. What do we do with it? Firstly, in the next few days, we are tabling a bill with my Minister, the Ministry of Labour, which will be consulted, so that we can assess the centres of creative employment. Speaking with institutions, talking to parents, talking to municipalities, we saw what the problems are, we evaluated them and submitted a bill, which makes substantial changes to their operation. Secondly - and I close with this - we are considering the small increase - in the budget for the current school year, so that on the basis of vulnerability criteria for the beneficiaries - they are either multitude or if they had taken it last year, but they need it and they have it in their family organisation - with such criteria that we can increase the budget a little bit, so that we can see how more families can be relieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u35	We move to the next, in the first under number 996/31-8-2020, a top-level question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Selective reintegration of workers into the Special Employment Programme for five and a half thousand unemployed graduates". The State Secretary, Mrs Michailidou, will answer again. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. The truth is, coming to the House, I was under the influence of a shock. I hope there will be no health problems with the Minister for Development, Mr Adoni Georgiadis. But, when I heard him, Mr Brutsi, before you left, say happy about 15.2% of remission as a major national success, I felt that I would not hear anything similar after the day. But I have heard you rejoice, thank yourself and the government for one second of the pensions, for the award of pensions, for saying enthusiastically that from the 'SURE' programme we have the least possible benefit - EUR 2.5 billion compared with EUR 5 billion and EUR 7 billion in Belgium and Portugal, which have a similar population - and you are satisfied. I would advise you, leaving from Philhellenes, to see what the situation of pensioners and citizens is and how you are dealing with the problems. Just now, you have celebrated the fact that the figures are all right with the CSR, but thousands of children and families will stay out and thousands of workers will also go to unemployment. I am going to the question and, frankly, Mrs Michailidou, over and above the ruthlessness and lack of consistency with the time and phase of your Chief Minister, I would like to ask you this: you are a young woman, a new scientist. Do you want to join in the post of one or one of the five thousand graduates of the OAED 2018 programme, which for the first time the Greek public administration has been able to proclaim and implement an impeccable and impeccable political morality program in a worthy manner for these people? Would you like to come in a little bit, which in the seventeen years has taken melted trousers in the cobbleds, who have worked to study, who have no chance of being born of a fireplace and a government coming and saying to them: 'Look at 12 months, I cannot renew your work offer in very important areas of welfare, public administration, health'? I will give you an example for these five thousand graduates: the National Center for Hepatitism raised hands a little while ago for lack of infrastructure. He also lifted his hands, because sixty of these five thousand were serving at the National Center of Blood and saw the door of exit, because Mr. Brutsis and you told them that their contract could not be renewed on the basis of the legal framework. But come on, for the new wave of graduates in the new programme you have announced - I will develop it in my dentistry - a solution has been found. Oh, of the miracle, the renewal of contracts is possible! Oh of the miracle, some of the five thousand for whom the contracts were not renewed were found in jobs with paradoxical policies that New Democracy has used to be within its genetic political DNA! Oh of the miracle, very few of these five thousand - I do not know in what capacity, of the "blue" child, of the good child, of the friendly child, of the relative, of the friend - were found in a paradoxical way at jobs! I would like to ask you this: When you took over the country's rule, you and the Minister responsible for returning young graduates, young scientists from abroad. Do you remember that nymph with the five hundred students who would return to Greece and now what are you presenting to us? That only blue-colored children, skills and scientific training will be left here, and the rest of them must consider their passport abroad? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is what you know, because suspicion - I am ending, Mr President - is great to your Government and the Minister of Labour. When Mr Brutsi celebrates that he made available EUR 1.5 billion for the unemployed, affected and freelance professionals in the pandemic, and that amounts to EUR 100 a month for six months, in any case, logic raises hands! Thank you and I will come back. I would just like to ask you not to be exposed - because the next part is the part of the complaint - to take serious account of the fact that what I described has been done and even worse and that is not the case with the new scientists. Apart from working insecurity, do not make them so intense and bitter a sense of injustice against an unrighteous state and not law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u37	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Giannoulis, the welfare has no colour or party. The care we give our most vulnerable fellow citizens is our duty, it is neither a shade of blue nor yellow. With your question, therefore, you are putting before Parliament a complaint from the President of the Association of Special Degrees in the public sector, according to which the Government proceeded to illegal and selective re-entry of former workers into an OAED programme. In our view, re-introduction of contractors to public bodies is illegal because it is contrary to legislation, or is selective in the sense that it does not guarantee everyone equal conditions for access to new jobs. In other words, it is contradictory to say at the outset that former contractors have been taken over again and at the same time to say that others or all former contractors should have been hired. Despite the contradiction, I will answer both sides of your question, which seems to include in the hosting bodies of workers who are within the competence of our Ministry and, in particular, the privileged structures. Starting from the question at the outset, which concerns recent recruitment of staff at welfare centres across the territory, let me briefly remind you of the institutional framework and the time sequence of events. In November 2018, as you said, OAED published a public invitation to recruit five and a half thousand unemployed in ministries and supervised entities. The invitation concerned young graduates of higher education and technology aged twenty-two to twenty-nine years. However, please keep targeting the programme, as described in Article 2 of this invitation. The aim was dual, firstly, to directly address the inability to access the labour market of young graduates, secondly, to curb the leakage of young scientific staff abroad. This was the invitation made by your government and it was the right invitation. The programme has unanimously achieved its objective, namely to tackle the chronic unemployment problem of young people and Brain Drain. A year later, in March 2020, the juncture and social needs changed. And why did they change? Why, of course, we had the pandemic, so the political aim was completely different, as the country was now called upon to face the pandemic of COVID -19. As you already know, since the first day of the health crisis the government as a whole, but also the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in particular, has worked intensively and we have worked responsibly so that everyone in need of state support will not be deprived of any necessary help. In this fight, all twelve welfare centres, if you like, the provision of care at the level of the regions, were also called upon and invited today to meet the increased needs of vulnerable groups serving sixty-six structures throughout the country. We as a Ministry were responsible for shielding these structures and we did so. Since the first day of the health crisis, we have worked very hard to increase by 1/3 the staff of the prosperous structures, so that also because of the workers' special authorizations, and also because of the special conditions of the pandemic, we can serve these structures as quickly as possible, so that they have the staff required to deal with the pandemic and the shortage of workers due to it. Mr Giannoulis, we are very proud, because within one month we took off the legislative act, we took off the ministers they needed and the twelve welfare centres made the announcements, and within one month they sent the four hundred sixty-two out of five hundred positions to our sixty-six structures throughout the country, so that they would not be empty. So I would like to close here with one key point, which I hope has been understood. The aim of the recent recruitment of ancillary staff was to meet the needs of the vulnerable benefit of the welfare centres in the extraordinary health situation. This is where they are essentially differentiated from the OAS's programme of young scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u40	Mrs Michailidou, I really congratulate you and I admire you for your bravery - and do not regard this as insulting - to try to pull the snake out of the hole when the competent Minister Brutsis flees so that you can have the room to limit the debate to the question of prosperous structures. Only I did not just refer to the privileged structures. I referred to a carabina case, where a process involving five and a half thousand graduated Greeks, young children of high quality, was not treated by your Government with due sensitivity, precisely because the pandemic problem emerged. And to be specific, I will tell you what the government has done with the head of the Minister, Mr. Brutsis and Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis. First of all, the Ministry of Labour did not agree to discuss these people. On 15 May Mr Brutsis also told them that the OAS programmes had a timetable for implementation, beginning, middle and end. He told them that when this contract's over, it's over. Yes, sir. To believe him. But come on, because in March 2020 - and you started it and you continue it now, in the Ministry of the Interior, of course, by circumventing and dismantling, by dismantling the ASEP day, day and minute - you come and say that the three thousand six hundred graduates who are the new programme through the ESDP - that is, transferring the funding of this programme from national funds to the ESDP - will have the possibility of renewing and even the possibility of five-year renewal. What's it doing for a youth in the tiles? We want them to be hostage to a political decision when elections are held. Also, remove the right of these five and a half thousand graduates who served, I repeat, in critical and pandemic positions, such as in hospitals, EFKA, in privileged units, in social services, to deposit as an advantage this work experience, because you say that on the basis of the founding law of the ADP, Law 2190/1994, it is very difficult to have a relevance or anything else to substantiate an advantage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What, though, do you do for your'self' programme of three thousand or for other recruitments? You are baptizing and almost modulate pre-service as a special experience. In other words, this is a new invention. Special experience is considered to be an advantage of recruitment. Do you know where this all ends? They conclude that it is not accidental - and I shall conclude, Mr President - that specific persons - and that is why I asked you not to insist on the separation of colour, because you are doing it - of the five and a half thousand graduates have found the way, as Kostas Voutsas said, and in any case they have "washed" in any case. And we have no issue with these children, with these young people, but we have a problem with those who invented the solution and presented it selectively to a few. I shall submit to the Minutes of the House the relevant document with the names erased, because of their personal data. However, you will see that they are persons in the Regulatory Authority of Energy, as well as the Greek Authority of Geological and Mining Research, persons who have just been outside the five and a half thousand, were hired outside APA with project contracts or as contractors, as contractors for a specific project. You know, Mrs. Michailidou, everything in this life, and especially the New Democracy, is not random. One time it can be random, the second time it can be a coincidence. But in so many cases, it can't be random. And I close by pointing out something that, when you meet with the Minister of Development, you ask him about one thing, which I ask you as a question, and I ask you as a young man who you are, and a new scientist, who in no way would like you to see the blues, the greens or the rosés parade before you overcoming your know-how and skills and get a job, because the bar from Koroni or from Messiah or where else there is, in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u41	Please complete, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u42	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would therefore like you to look into the role of the Business Consulting company, a private company that fishes from the tanks of these people, which is in this particular 10-year hostage, due to the crisis and, of course, are in their previous positions, those who served as long as the twelve-month programme of young scientists, which, I repeat, is now the legal framework to be renewed for humanitarian, scientific, but also because of the needs of the Greek public administration, do not do so in revenge. I dare say that you are doing so in vengeance, because these five and a half thousand people with terrible skills and masters belong to the 2018 notice. So look at these private companies as well about how - here's another coincidence, too! - specific individuals and groups are located in the Ministry of Development or other Ministries in the same positions. Apart from the complaint, there's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Colleague, please. You've been over seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for two seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u45	For two seconds, Mr. Comrade, and not for two minutes. We've got to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u46	I repeat, Mrs. Michailidou, that I really admire your bravery to cover the fact that every second that Mr. Brutsis thinks or works is a knife to labour rights, to the economy, to society, to people who try to survive when with unpaid overtime and when with what I described before, with OAED and the programs. I would therefore like to address both the man and the scientist who has to look at with genuinely political purity and braveness that this is not a matter of party controversy. It is a question, a model of political morality, of how this country will survive in these conditions. However, this will certainly not be done by punishing five and a half thousand young graduates and leading them to go abroad as a one-way, even under pandemic conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u47	Mrs Michaelidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Giannoulis, I'm not going to get any snakes out of the hole. My Minister - and he is particularly honoured, both to himself and to our Government - is here every week and answers a number of questions to parliamentary scrutiny, at the same time that, as you can see, the Ministry of Labour is, of course, at the forefront of the pandemic. It is at the forefront because the issues are too much for the Ministry of Labour, both on the labour side and on the part of welfare and social affairs are 'incapable of', it runs and tries not only to solve the continuing problems that are created, but also to provide for no more to be created, but to proceed with new policies in an effective way. For the Minister of Development, as you can imagine, I cannot answer. Of course you can table another timely question and come and answer it here yourself. However, the Ministry of Labour is not able to respond to the Ministry of Development. What can we answer and what can I answer you for sure as to the part of social affairs in particular? On 14 March of this year, by means of an act of legislation, we allow the recruitment of staff to prosecuting bodies, including social welfare centres. The aim, as I have already said, was to address the emergency needs from the appearance and dispersion of the coronary. For this reason, as the PPP expressly states, the recruitments were carried out by way of a derogation from the existing provisions, i.e. by means of a special and rapid procedure. This procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u49	The RAE?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u50	You can't ask me about what's going on in RAE.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Colleague, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u52	This procedure is described in detail by the Ministry of the Interior and Finance, which was adopted on 16 March. By a second ministerial decision on 5 June, we amended the uncovered specialities to meet the up-to-date needs of the privileged structures. The first Ministerial Decision describes in detail the procedure, which includes pre-service moleculosis in relevant objects. In no case, however, is there any pre-service with a prior status in the same entity. This in practice means that when access to new posts was open in terms of equality, both to young workers and those who had previously been involved in the organisation. Are there such cases? There are. In all the twelve welfare centres from the five planned posts, four hundred sixty-two have now been covered by the NRP. Of these four hundred sixty-two six were covered by staff who had already been employed in the organisation with the OAED programme in 2018. These are specifically five social workers who came out with the second KYA, a child career and a nurse. To them - to be quite clear - another nurse who had been involved with the OAED programme in 2018 is added and was recruited on the basis of qualifications with the new OAED programme, which, however, did not include the 2018 programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u53	Except S.H.I.E.L.D. always.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u54	Therefore, no illegality in the recruitment of ancillary staff. The procedure, as set out in the MSF and described in detail in the MSF, was followed out of the privileged structures. Allow me here to point out by closing down - and to be honest, I expected you to have allies - that you are charging us irregularities in a process for which we, and particularly in the part of social welfare, are proud that it has been done properly and quickly. These five hundred recruitments in one month have sent our structures, increased by one third the staff and indeed - because I keep visiting our structures throughout the country - and their administrations, and even more so - the administrations are coming and going - the workers are there. For the first time I feel really proud that we have not only shielded our structures for pandemic as much as we can in the workplace, and we ensure that the guests within them do not have the absence of services from the workers, but also that after ten years of monuments, after the continuous exit of workers due to retirements and non-new recruitments to prosperous structures, but also if you want a negative balance of mobility in the prosperous structures, my own workers say that for the first time they can function with continuity and consistently by providing their services as they have to provide them to our most vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u55	We enter the debate of the first under number 997/31-8-2020 on the second-cycle question, by MP I' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The free molecular control and the provision of all necessary protective equipment for police officers to deal with COVID -19". The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the women and men of the Greek Police Corps have been at the very first moment of the Coronovirus pandemic on the front line showing a high sense of responsibility and commitment to their service. It is worth pointing out that since the beginning of March our policemen have been called upon to deal with the emergency situation caused by the refugee - immigration - as well as to monitor the proper implementation of the restrictive measures imposed by the government. In other words, they were faced with particularly increased tasks involving both the refugee and the health crisis. Unfortunately, however, this important task of the Greek police was recognised only by reason of and not by your Government, and personally by Mr Mitsotakis, who despite his personal commitment to the decree of 17 March 2020 excluded the police personnel from the grant of the exceptional aid allowance, which was given to the workers in hospitals, EKO, EKOB and was rightly given to the General Secretariat of Civil Protection. I will not comment, Minister, on the exclusion of police officers from this exceptional allowance, because I may be accused of being cheap and sterile opposition. I will only quote extracts from the open letters from the Association of Police Officers of Thessaloniki to MPs I and II Region. In the first - I will read it mot - on 24 April 2020 they note: 'The restriction of the recognition of our work with oral thanks alone can only be regarded as a hindrance and is not worthy of a House that is identical to self-sacrificing and risk'. I want to submit these communications to the minutes. First of all, on 24 April 2020, I read you. We'll come to the point and then I'll testify to that. And while it has already been necessary and capable of responding to the commitment - otherwise, do not give undertakings by oral Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, as repeated in every speech seventeen times the Prime Minister's name, if you cannot respond - on August 26th, says the Association of Police Officers of Thessaloniki: "And while keeping a fish silence on the issue of allowance, the decision to grant two masks to each police officer was contacted as if it were the great conquest. It is interesting that no latch has yet been placed in all services, that there are no EGE stairways to perform tests on police officers returning empty and preventive tests and on those working. This is a reproach - second ridicule - to the College of Greek Police and to those of our fellow Members who maintained some hope that their offer will be recognized in the community as a whole." I'm going to file both of them, and I've got two more of the Thessaloniki Police Officers' Association. However, because our interest in collectively as a Civic Opposition, as SYRIZA, as well as the staff as MP I Thessaloniki, is not climax, I would remind you, Mr Economou, Minister, of the question that we tabled forty-two SYRIZA MPs on 29 April 2020 requesting an increase of the cap on the monthly and annual night employment of police personnel. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, Mr Economou, please be careful, because this is also important in relation to police nights, in order to resolve the major issue of unpaid working for unpaid nights. We hope on the subject that we have already raised to you since April in this case of nights, that the government's financial staff will not again treat the men and women of the Greek police as second-class public officials. In any case, we are closely following this issue and will come back to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u57	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u58	I now come to the question, very briefly. I have here the articles in all kinds of friendly media to SYRIZA. I read from the "Coronovirus" section of the police force in Thessaloniki, nine cases in forty-eight hours. On quarantine fourteen policemen following the arrest of a foreign coronary positive."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u59	You've been in five minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u60	I'll be right over. I would like your understanding, because this is a very serious matter and we are being watched by all the policemen throughout the country. They expect the big ones - not to prove to be false - to respond to the government. You said that, you will implement it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u61	Mr Triantafylides, all the topical questions are serious, which is why they are also topical.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u62	Third, the coroner hits the police department. I read: "In quarantine and the Patisian Police Department." I leave them here and specifically ask, in addition to the other two questions. I hope that Mr Economou, who always responds, will respond to both issues I have raised. Its strong concern about the situation that has arisen and the Association of Thessaloniki Police Officers, which points out in its communication the need for police personnel to be shielded against COVID -19, as otherwise the consequences may be fatal for the operation of this House. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So on the basis of the above, I ask you, Minister: do you intend to ensure free molecular control? I am talking about the PCR, about what they are invited to pay 150 euros. Did you ask the cops if they have 150 euros as soon as they return from the holidays to pay for themselves and their family? I'm not talking about an antibody test that a sponsor might give to the police free of charge. I am talking about the PCR, I am talking about a molecular testing test, which is requested by the private diagnostic centres of EUR 150.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u63	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u64	So, on the basis of the above, will you provide a free Molecular Control Examination, as well as, of course, providing the necessary equipment for COVID -19 to all police personnel? They say - and I shall put this in the Minutes - the vests, for example. The vest cannot be carried from a police officer to a police officer, because you understand - they also understand - what that means for the dispersal of the coronary. Equipment necessary to cover the molecular control test and of course you will finally carry out what you promised them by the Prime Minister's mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Triantafylides, instead of two minutes, you spoke seven minutes and twenty seconds. You overcovered the time of dentistry. As serious as the matter may be, the questions must be comprehensive, clear and brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u66	I will be briefer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine myself to being strict in respect of Parliament's procedures and Parliament's Rules of Procedure. However, I would like to make a general comment on what you have said, because I see your concern for the police very well. Usually when you are opposition, you show it, but you forget very quickly and get a divorce from the police when you become government. The interest of both the Prime Minister and the Government as a whole in the staff of the Greek Police and in general the Security Bodies is shown in practice every day and the police themselves know that. I am taking this opportunity once again to inform the House, but also all the citizens of the initiatives taken with regard to efforts to curb the spread of the CIVID virus -19 among Greek police officers and by extension to the wider population of the country. As far as your timely question is concerned, Mr Triantafylides, these are issues that we are dealing with every day, as I have repeatedly pointed out - in constant readiness. The initiative of the political and physical leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection throughout this period is summarised in the following axes. Ensure and uninterrupted continuous disposal of the necessary sanitary material throughout the territory's services. Taking those initiatives, which will form the necessary framework for cooperation to ensure the supply of health material for as long as the pandemic lasts. Upgrade of logistic equipment available to Greek Police officials, with a view to drastically reducing their exposure to possible outbreaks of infection by COVID -19. Continuous communication and day-to-day close cooperation with the National Public Health Agency, aiming at informing the police personnel in good time of the most recent directives adopted on better protection against pandemic. Appointment of orders by the Head of the Hellenic Police with a view to fully implementing the measures for all personnel and providing for a series of actions in the context of a restriction on the spread of the virus. In view of the close time margins that characterise the parliamentary control procedure, I will submit a number of documents for your fuller information on all these initiatives to protect the health of Greek police officers against the COVID pandemic -19. Starting from the sanitary material, received and made available from the end of February 2020 until today, the elements of the first document I submit refer to all the services of the Greek Police, as well as to the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki in particular. Such evidence shows the uninterrupted availability of the necessary means of protection to police personnel at that address. In addition, it should be pointed out that competitive procedures are under way for the supply of extra health material, as reflected in the second document I am presenting to you. Particular attention shall be paid to the levels of cleanliness and hygiene prevailing in the services of the Greek Police, which are ensured by disinfections. In particular to meet the needs of the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki, a credit of EUR 84,500 has been approved, while disinfections have already been made to the existing services in this address on dates recorded in the third document I presently present before the House. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Significant initiatives have also been taken to provide the necessary logistical equipment to enable remote communication to be made through a teleconference between police services, to facilitate and protect the officials of the Greek Police in the performance of their duties every day. For your fuller information, I am tabling another document setting out some of these necessary provisions, such as those configured with laminated vehicles, computers and equipment, which are considered necessary to improve remote communication. Similar technical interventions, such as separatist ones, are scheduled to be implemented in services where citizens are present. Once again, I would like to emphasise the role of the Greek Police Headquarters Department, which every day takes all the necessary steps during the pandemic, in sending directives which it constantly updates through its constant communication and cooperation with the EGE, which is the responsible body for coordination and information. Particular care, with the aim of dealing more effectively with possible or confirmed cases, has been given by means of a series of orders and by the Chief of Greek Police. It provides for the appointment of responsible officers in all the Directorates of Police of the country and the autonomous headquarters of the headquarters, which, in cooperation with the Single Coordinating Centre for Operations and Crisis Management and with clearly predetermined tasks, act with a view to continuous information, prompt response and action towards effective management of suspects or confirmed cases to police personnel. Mr President, I ask for a small tolerance. I'll be very brief in dentistry. To conclude my initial position, I would like to stress that the molecular control of police personnel is a complex issue, the implementation of which is under strict criteria, which have been predetermined by the EGE and for which I will have the opportunity to develop my views in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor for two minutes, in view of the fact that you overcovered the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u70	If it is a matter of time, of course, Mr President. If it's a question of responding to the responsibility of informing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u71	They'll be here at 11:00.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u72	I'm not confronted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u73	We have some time, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u74	I demand answers concerning the daily lives of workers in the Greek Police. I did not expect you, Mr Economou, to mention this way of thinking of late. You're talking about the Triantafylide? Here, on my own initiative, they signed forty other two SYRIZA MPs on April 29 for police nights. I will send to your office and I expect my office to send me the three topical questions I have asked, bringing public ministers of my own government. I visited Mr. Andrikopoulou and at her office at the time, the Minister, Ms. Gerovasilis, to highlight the increase in violence and crime in the center of Thessaloniki. I told you that my position was primarily deeply social and after a party and I did not expect you to speak to me about fine interest, since this is the third or fourth time you come to me to answer me and I thank you very much for that. I fully appreciate your parliamentary morality and your consistency. But I did not expect a Greek officer who served the body of the Greek Police to triumphantly administer two grotesque masks to every police officer. Firstly, you did not reply to me: will you implement the Mitsotakis commitment in March to the award, that is, what was given to the other first-line workers too, to be given to police officers as first-line workers, since Mr Mitsotakis mentioned it? Secondly, in relation to nighttime, will you give the night work? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, I will still not speak with my own words - you said it - but I will submit to the Minutes, from 4 August, a statement from the Association of Police Officers of Thessaloniki on the need to place placards on police services. "Reported," he says, "Police from the bulletproof exchange." Request for a molecular test on all police officers returning from leave to Thessaloniki on August 17th, by the police association. They say it themselves. Forget SYRIZA. Forget the Triantafylide. Stay and respond, because they are the women and men of the Greek Police who seek and claim one, two, three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u75	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u76	I'm saying again: I'm talking about a molecular testing test, I'm not talking about an antibody test. Tell them. That is the third question. Respond to them, not me. If you want to respect the parliamentary procedure, compromise and respect the truth. Tell them the truth about having them arrogant and allies. This is the Greek police. It's not Economous, it's Chrysochide, or the Chiefs. He is the policeman who is on the sidewalk trying to safeguard the physical integrity and property of Greek citizens and every day he puts his life and his health on the front line of danger and must return to his home, because he also has a family, he has relatives, he has a mother and father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u77	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I have kept the issue of molecular control that you raise with your question, because his approach is much more complicated than is initially seen. There was concern at both headquarters and the Ministry regarding the direct access of police personnel to a molecular control test. There have also been relevant discussions with the EGE on the feasibility and feasibility of such a design, always in accordance with the strict criteria of the laboratory molecular control set by the EGE. The result of these discussions is that in the event of a molecular test being carried out on all Greek police personnel, this would only show the situation of the police officer's viral lorry on that day. Precautionary control of a police officer does not preclude the possibility of antiviralisation within the next few days. At the same time, the negative result, especially in the whole House, will eventually create a false sense of security and possibly even by reflection, relaxation of the necessary measures of self-protection and security. We therefore prefer, at this stage, as an appropriate and necessary measure to prevent COVID -19, the joint implementation of the updated directives sent by the Greek Police Headquarters Department to all Police Directorates since 24 August. These are, not least, fully in line with the EGE's directives, which must be complied with by all personnel. At the same time, we continue constantly all those efforts that will ensure every necessary means of protecting police personnel in the performance of their duties. By the way, I would like to tell you that last week we had a special meeting in the Ministry with the President of the EGE and scientific staff, where we updated all these protocols and how and when and under what conditions the molecular test should be carried out. Last afternoon there was no separate meeting at the Ministry of National Defence with the Minister of National Defence, the Deputy Minister of State, the Secretary-General and the military leadership and representatives of the health service of the Ministry of National Defence, with the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Chief of Police, where we have also formed the framework under which, depending on the implementation of the EGE Protocols and the needs that will arise in the Greek Police, the necessary coverage for the tests can be provided in the first place...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u79	You mean, for free?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u80	...and for whatever it takes through military hospitals first and foremost from the rest of the health system, of course, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u81	Minister, will the officers return from their vacation do the molecular test for free? That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u82	The molecular control test shall be carried out on the basis of the EAFRD protocols. It's not panacea, the molecular test of whoever he thinks it is. There are specific procedures provided for. To those returning from permission there are specific instructions in how they will act and how they will be properly integrated into the day-to-day exercise of their service in order to protect themselves and the staff. It is our daily care, so I tell you that there are specific instructions and if you have noticed my prototype, it has been set up in every address of a special officer who is following evolution, communicating on a 24-hour basis with the Business and Crisis Management Centre, there is a health service on a 24-hour basis in close cooperation with the EGE and we handle every incident, suspect or if it manifests symptoms of COVID -19 just as scientists first point to us and we observe it with religious piety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u83	Are you going to put the vests and the knits on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u84	Don't interrupt, Mr. Triantafylides. The Minister's answer. I think it's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u85	Clearly. He's in progress. This is all going on. I would like to remind you by closing that the fight against COVID -19 is lasting and we recognise your sensitivity to it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u87	............................................................................................................................................... and the whole political world and the Greek society, because first of all the uniform staff, as you have pointed out, are in the front line, so it will continue to be and we must do everything possible, because the police personnel will be in the front line in the next round. As I have pointed out, our concern is daily, continuous and uninterrupted, and here I do not want you to have any doubts, because in the end, the issue of the staff of the Security Councils and of the citizens is a national issue, wants a more general uniform strategy, and we are moving away from us any political and party purposes in relation to police personnel. I would like, therefore, to end by stressing that the fight against COVID -19 is lasting, as is the effort to protect and shield the health of police personnel not only in Thessaloniki, but throughout the country. Ministry and Headquarters are in constant coordination with the experts of the EGE, because our top priority was and will continue to be to ensure the health of all women and men of the Greek Police, who are on the first line of battle against the spread of the COVID -19 pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate on this point has been concluded. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-09-04-S1-commons.u89	With the consent of the House at 10.55 p.m., the sitting on Monday, September 7, 2020, at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a debate on a pre-dated agenda, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, at the initiative of the President of the Parliamentary Group of Change Mr. Fotinis Fotinis, Gennamata, at the level of party leaders, on the problems posed by the outbreak of pandemics in public health, the economy, workers and the beginning of the new school year.
