ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 27-8-2020 delegation, the PKE's minutes of Thursday, 27 August, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Statification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt on the delimitation of the Exclusive Economic Zone between the two States’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 31 August 2020, the topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: H under No 976/24-8-2020 and 980/25-8-2020, which will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, the Question No 975/24-8-20, which will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr. Styliani Mendus, the Question No 984/25-8-2020, which will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Domna Michalidou, the Question No 972/25-8-20, the number 973/25-8-20, the Question 974/25-8-20, and the Question 979/25-8-20, which will be answered by Mr. So we will start the debate with the fifth under number 975/24-8-2020 on a topical question from the second cycle of MP I East Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the subject: "Second continuous summer that Acropolis is not accessible to Acropolis under the responsibility of the Minister of Culture". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes, please, for the question, and then for your position you will have three minutes. But because we have enough questions, please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Before I go to the question, I will testify my grief for the unfortunate event of fire in the Mycenaean archaeological site. Whether or not we could have made it to time, we're waiting for the people to tell us. Until then, let me say it's sad, really, to have fires in such flagship spaces. We didn't have much. We have all in history for hundreds of years, the fire in Olympia in 2007 and the fire on Sunday nights in Mycena. We had a New Democracy government on both fires. So I come to the topical question on the subject, as you said: 'Second continuous summer that the Acropolis is not accessible to people with disabilities with the responsibility of the Minister of Culture'. On the eve of the 2019 elections, the sad event in which a child with disabilities had difficulty climbing to the Acropolis on account of work in the Library was fully employed by the New Democracy for election reasons. However, since then, two summers have passed, and the decision of the Central Archaeological Board to install a new one with funding from the Onassis Foundation and the rider is not ready despite the constant assurances of the Minister of Culture that the slope elevator would be ready from last May. The date was then moved again with statements for May. At the end of May, we scheduled a delegation visit to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in the field of work, so that we can be informed about the progress of the rider's work by the people responsible. However, the Ministry decided to exclude MPs from the Civilian Opposition Party from the possibility of information and our visit was hampered with funny excuses. Then a parliamentary question was tabled under protocol number 7202, calling for a clear timetable for the delivery of the work to the public, as we had information that for another summer the Acropolis would not be accessible to our fellow citizens with motor problems. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Unfortunately, our concerns have been confirmed despite the Minister's assurances that the work will have been delivered by - a new date - at the beginning of August. I mention a small passage from the interview of the Minister: "In today's data we calculate at the end of July, that the lift should have been installed in Athens." Journalist: "And start working, that is?" Minister: "And start to work." "On the part of the Ministry of Culture, the infrastructure project to be carried out has already begun and the first phase has been completed. Now the second one is in progress. In other words, what we can do is do within a timescale." Journalist: "... and I keep what you told me about the end of July, early August...".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u3	Mr Colleague, please ask the Minister a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u4	Yeah, I'm done. "...works and we will probably also have the largest volume of tourists in Athens." It is the interview of the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Mendonis at the radio station "PARAPOLICA" and the journalist Mr. Takis. In view of the above, therefore, the Minister asks, as August is finished, when the Acropolis Library will eventually be delivered to the public, not with announcements but in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u5	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, a fire in the archaeological site - in any archaeological site and especially in one emblematic site - is in itself a sad event. However, what is extremely important is that the state mechanism was mobilised so and had predicted so that it would not cause any damage to the antiquities of the Mycenaean archaeological site, because the state reacted. After all, in archaeological sites we have had fires in previous years. I could mention examples from the period 2015-2020. That's not the goal, it's not to tell what falsely happened to a fire. It's unfortunate. I'll agree, Mr. Darkness. It is, however, extremely happy that we do not have the slightest damage to the monuments of this archaeological site. Let's go to the question now. First of all, thank you very much for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify a few things once again. The construction of the new lift is a complex and complex project, for which innovative construction solutions were required. It is not a mere replacement of the construction tower that operated between 2004 and 2018, when with knowledge of the then political leadership of the Ministry, it was interrupted due to landslides, falling stones, from the wall of the Acropolis. The problem with the rider was inherited by the SYRIZA government to the Government of New Democracy. The problem was known to your government as of September 2018. On November 5, 2018, the director of the Athens Antiquities EKO informs the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture about the closure of the construction site and the route of the walk to the archaeological site of Acropolis and Klityon. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On February 11, 2019, the service returns and informs you of the immediate need to replace the lift. It updates all political leadership. I am tabling this document also in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are many other documents followed in March, April and only at the end of May 2019, the director of the then Deputy Minister of State asks the services for a schedule of actions to replace the rider, aiming for a road map to be discussed at the KAS on 23 or 30 July 2019. Fortunately, the elections were held. Unfortunately, nothing was ready to enter the CAS. For nine months from September 2018 to July 2019, the government was indifferent, or the leadership of the Ministry of Culture was unable to launch the work of replacing the rider with a safe elevator, in accordance with the specifications set by the services. And you come here today and ask for the reason that within nine months and despite the pandemic we build the work. For us, the replacement of the construction lift was a priority. As part of the partnership of the Onassis Joint Foundation, the necessary resources were provided for the implementation of the project and already in October 2019, after the opinion of the Central Archaeological Council, the specifications, locations of the accompanying works and the installation of the new slope elevator in the Acropolis were adopted. The necessary studies were then prepared, which were initially approved by the CST on 23-3220. We are already in the middle of a pandemic. Despite the pandemic of the Ministry's services on 27-32020, the necessary work began with the fixing of the Balanos rock and wall in the northern climate of the Acropolis, a project that should have precedented the installation of the new elevator and which, unfortunately, had not even been launched by the SYRIZA government. The project was entrusted by the Onassis Foundation to an Italian construction company. The factory of the company which took over the lift is located in the Como of Italy, at the heart of the pandemic, and the closure of its operation was imposed by the measures taken by the Italian Government. The factory was closed for seventy-two working days. It was also impossible to exchange cooperation visits between the two sides - Italian manufacturers and managers of the Ministry of Culture and the Onassis Foundation - because of the restrictions on travel. The lift cabin - which is first applied in Greece for the first time a slope elevator - as well as all the mechanical equipment prepared in Italy are already in Athens. For reasons of safety for those on the elevator, the installation of the equipment must involve specialized craftsmen from the construction company, who have been in Athens since this morning - because they have now been able to travel to the Ministry of Culture for health reasons. The work of the slope elevator will be attributed to the public in persuasiveness of all of us, improving the safe access of all without exception to the Holy Rock of the Acropolis, a monument - symbol for all mankind, not offered for a micropolitical exploitation that you regularly serve and serve.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u8	Ms. Mendoni, I am sorry but one of your most flagrant failures as Minister of Culture is the fact that this year for the first time since 2004, the Acropolis is not accessible to disabled visitors. Whatever you say, whatever you do, after you have lifted all this rampant election, you had two summers and one winter and you did not go ahead with the project. This is the important fact, as important is that after the inertia of the governments so many years before 2015, with the current Minister with you, Ms. Mendoni, you are responsible for why you were Secretary General of the Ministry. You weren't just an employee. You are responsible, because the governments before 2015 had not gone ahead with this project. So SYRIZA did research into Greek and European companies, preparing to replace the old rider by a modern slope elevator. This solution was launched by handing over the road to New Democracy, which simply implements the SYRIZA plan, which he found ready. Because of the delay, of course, it is not the coronary you told us here and you are using as a pretext to cover your responsibilities, but the lack of coordination and the sloppyness you have shown as political leadership. The construction work of the elevator area in the Acropolis which has nothing to do with the factory in Italy until recently had not been completed and is still under way. In fact, even excavating machines were recruited in an effort to speed up the work. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture demonstrated the utmost urgency and rushed to dismantle the old rider without the necessary studies having been completed and a clear timetable. So, two years after SYRIZA's many successes in the area - I mention just the online ticket for monuments, museums - the mistakes of the New Democracy Government achieved the unimportant for this summer: From 18 May that the archaeological site was opened after the quarantine and until the start of the new lift that is delaying, there is no way for the disabled to visit the Acropolis than to carry them into the hands. I was in the Mycenas this morning, Minister. It's a terrible spectacle and a fortress. It's a long way from the effort you're making to vomit it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And to return to the issue of the rider - I am finished, Madam President - we are asking this question to show how little you respect parliamentary procedures. I asked you when the rider will be ready and you did not answer me. Instead, in whose interview I read excerpts, you responded with dates, "end of July, early August, and we will be ready". You were a liar, but to the Member who asked you as a representative of the Greek people you did not answer at once. You replied later without mentioning dates, of course. You were careful about the answer you gave. Madam Minister, you do not want, you are a minister who left the Acropolis unaccompanied for two summers. You are a minister who left in the midst of a pandemic defenseless and to fall down on artists, and a minister who burned the Mycena. Let's hope the disasters are over here. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u9	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u10	I will start with three comments. I am proud, Mr. Skouricos, no matter how bothering you, that fire in the Mycenas was dealt with and did not cause any damage to the monuments of the archaeological site. Burned grass obviously give an unpleasant picture. But they were burnt weeds. So don't talk at the burnt fire house. We can say a lot about fires. So stop this story. Secondly, and to say the objective point, no crippled this summer was taken to the hands, because it was such a summer that people who had problems did not come to the Acropolis. Thirdly, I always respond to parliamentary scrutiny within time limits. If you find an answer from me that is not within the deadline, come here and talk about it. There is no answer given late. As for your comment on the two summers, but in the summer of 2019 - because you had done nothing since September 2018 - we were struggling by changing plaques to half-function the construction climber, which you left cracked and did not work. This is the reality and there are all the press releases of the Ministry of Culture from 9 July and then for each time the rider was broken, because you had not arranged for anything. So let's go to another spot. If everything were ready in SYRIZA, and if today's government were following the mature studies it found in SYRIZA, why, Mr. Skourikos, had new studies to be carried out? Why is your Deputy Secretary's office 27-5-2019 asking the services - and I submit it in the Minutes - the roadmap to see what work they will do? Stop it, then. All things have limits. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What we are interested in you to understand is that the slope elevator in the Acropolis is a innovative and innovative project, which will be delivered with the security it must have for those who will use it. You should know the synonymity and complexity of the work, for you found them on your own side during these fireworks and theatrical visits to the Rock. Well, you saw it. From there on, all you do is leak to the press a number of no-existent problems and not to stay objective. It is an objective issue that the factory in Italy was seventy-two days closed. And the fact that from March 27th in the middle of a pandemic and with all the limitations the services of the Ministry of Culture did what they had to do, is something that they did not, Mr. Skourikos, I am not ashamed, as I am not ashamed of the effectiveness of the Argolida Antiquities, which, thanks to its methodicity and systematicity, was nothing to burn in the archaeological site of the Mycenas, in order to create a problem. You are desperately trying to create a completely false belief that the current government is blocking - and I turn back to the elevator - the problems with movement problems from the Acropolis, when your government with indifference or incompetence has been unable to launch the replacement of the construction lift. Once again you choose to use the Acropolis as a field of political controversy for a project that is going to be completed, without anyone knowing exactly what you are cutting, what you think you are gaining, what your political benefit is. In fact, in order to create even a small political issue, you are looking to get caught by interview phrases on radios and on my statements to form the basis of the contents of the timely question you are asking. Finally, Mr Papoutsis, everything I say about the lift construction work on the Acropolis, although you have seen it too, but if you still do not understand it, it is acts and you will soon see the result complete. If you still do not understand, it is because you have become accustomed to SYRIZA in exponential wordings, as we all know and, of course, what is not familiar with us, it seems strange to us. I repeat, Mr. Darkness, to inspire it. For nine months, from September 2018 to July 2019, you were indifferent or unable to launch the task of replacing the rider with a safe lift, in accordance with the specifications set by the services. This is derived from the document of your State Secretary's office. And you come here today and ask for the floor from us who, within nine months and despite the pandemic, build the work. Consider how exposed you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give the House three letters to the President of this House. ‘My declaration of independence. Mr President, with this time of day I make it known that I leave the Greek Parliamentary Group and remain an independent MEP B1' North Athens, in the Parliament of the Greeks which was formed in this House following the elections on 1 July 2019. At a fair price, Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou MEP B1'North Athens Division' The second statement is as follows: "I, Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou, declare that I return to the party of the Greek Solution - Kyriakos Velopoulos. Athens, 31 August 2020 I declare the word.’ Finally, we have the acceptance statement which reads as follows: "The President of the Party Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos declares that I accept to my parliamentary group the MEP B1's North Athens Sector Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou. Athens, 31 August 2020 The declarant’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u12	We now move on to the debate on the first under number 972/24-8-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Argolidas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Giolas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "We need to direct the Patthological Clinic of the Nafplio Nursing Unit of the Argolida Hospital with the required medical staff". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Giola, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is well known that the ESS, because of its long existence and because of its 30-five years-long transition from its recommendation, is currently experiencing serious problems with the staff of medical staff. Such a problem is acutely faced with the nursing unit of Nafplio and, in particular, the pathological clinic. In the light of the shortcomings that were coming, I had already asked two questions on both 1-2020 and then on 12-32020, which of course related to the general problems and the hospitalities of Argolida, where precisely because I did not receive an answer, I now have to put myself in particular with this timely question and say the following about the pathological and clinical of the Nafplio Nursing Unit. So, at Nafplio Nursing Unit, no one is currently serving in an organic position of its own unit. They have been revoked by unorthodox, sloppy and inadequate staffing a doctor with a degree of manager under temporary movement from the Center for Health Argons. However, it has been six months, and probably the deadline has expired, and possibly it can also be judicially up and gone. Also, a doctor with the degree of caretaker I has moved from the Argos Nursing Unit and recently hired an assistant doctor from the Nafplio Health Center and moved two days a week to the Nursing Unit and especially to pathology. Finally, the Director of the Centre for the Health of Cranidian Health moves and only carries out a few on-the-spot inspections at the clinic. As you can see, this clinic cannot be operated by such a hypotension. As I mentioned at the outset, we have repeatedly indicated our anxiety and anxiety about this situation and the shortcomings that are evident in providing the required and adequate health care units from this section, the pathological, which, as you know best from me, is the heart of the system, the heart of a nursing unit that should provide the best possible in an area that covers 2/5 of all Argolida residents, that is, over forty thousand, added, but also to tourists - visiting the area for long periods of the year, as well as the region of Troise and the islands of Argosaron, Poros and Spetses, who come to us to heal, i.e. the Naupli and Argos. Please let me have your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u14	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gilola, you will allow me to begin by making a more general comment. The vast majority of the questions addressed to us by the party of Officerial Responsibility under parliamentary control have as a matter of serving hospitals, health centers and general health structures in our country. In fact, they are characterised by a strong mood of criticism, which focuses on the shortcomings and gaps that exist, the shortcomings and gaps which we have never questioned, we have never refused and have even demonstrated them as soon as we have undertaken the governance of the country and which, of course, cannot be settled in a very short time. You must be self-criticizing - I am pleased about that - with this question for your own government period. The previous government handed us out in July 2019 a highly problematic, old and under-represented National Health System, hospitals and health centers with a large number of gaps and shortcomings and, above all, having carried out a government course of about five years without any strategy, as demonstrated, for the human potential, with fragmentary movements and no planning. That was your policy, and that is what we have received, and unfortunately we are paying for it today. For this policy and its negative consequences, we are not going to apologize because we are not responsible. What we are trying to do is to give solutions to the problems and situations that we inherited. In a very short time we have done too much in this area. In fact, the question you are addressing, which concerns the Nafplio Hospital, is that we have received a pathologically serious clinically important subordinated. The solutions we had were concrete. Immediately we proceeded to calls for positions of medical specialists for pathology, many of which came out atrocious. At the same time, we moved on the basis of a specific plan of the 6th Health Area doctors from nearby health units. At the same time, the crises of doctors of various specialties are evolving on the respective crisis councils of the 6th Health Region: a position of pathology - oncology, a position of anesthesiology, a position of medical biopathology, a position of radiation, a place of gastroenterology, a feminine - gynaecology and a pneumonology - tuberculology. These seven places will strengthen the Nafplio Hospital, covering gaps in the next October. Of course, we continue our efforts to strengthen not only Nafplio Hospital, but also all the country's health structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u16	Me too, Minister. Mr. Gillola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u17	I certainly did not expect a different approach to the general, that is, the lack of doctors, which at least for the Nafplio Hospital, had been indicated, and it was known that they were before the retired two pathologists, one of whom was also the manager. After that, and in view of the fact that you said that you were determined to help and strengthen Nafplio Hospital's pathological clinic, I didn't see anything tangible. The moves made did not really cover pathological matters, they do not cover a clinic of this kind and that character and that capacity, which we have said is the heart of the system in every hospital. And how does that prove? You say there have been notices and they have been declared barren. On July 13, 2019 - just recently - under Protocol No 42591, the 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued twenty-five, twenty-six posts, and for the pathological clinic of the Nafplio Hospital, nothing was declared but one oncology. It was said before: This unit is necessary. It needs to be staffed. It can't be done differently. What assistant doctor, if there is no director who will be renowned, who will have five, ten years of medical presence, will come there, and it is known that the assistant doctors are not easily in the province because they are facing a serious survival problem? And I don't mean that it can be done with the bonuses and the other means that our doctors must support. At least, however, the manager must breathe confidence and be able to provide supplies to the assistants to come. In this notice I mentioned to you in July, why wasn't a pathology doctor included? I'm coming back. There are already two pneumonologists and a third pneumonologist was asked for. Let all positions be over-qualified, but pathological cannot be left out. Firstly, it is absolutely necessary to add two medical pathologists at least. Secondly, no position of responsible coordinator has been given to any of these doctors. Imagine, in other words, a pathological, a clinic whole, headless. And finally, I told you that you made a contract notice and you're asking for an extra pneumonologist. I wish all the clinics were full. But pathological can't remain that way. We're wings in the wind. Is there any plan at Nafplio Hospital to continue operating the pathological clinic and, by extension, the nursing facility? Are there any other plans that we do not know about? We, with whatever shortcomings we have with which we are lacking in instruments, with which we have been able to sustain all these units in a sufficient manner, in a formal way and in a well-intentioned manner. I'm waiting for an answer on this, ad hoc: Pathologists will we have? Also, if the position is to be announced immediately, when will they come to Nafplion?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gilola, the post notices have not stopped with those that are already evolving. We have already come to the notice of an additional eighty-five seats, and there are more four hundred seats, as we have announced, in order to fill gaps. I'm sure there's no cover for the gaps in all hospitals. In line with the demands made by hospitals and health regions, we are trying, on the basis of the existing appropriations and the programming we have, to cover these needs slowly. Good or badly there are tools, such as the procedure of subsidiary doctors, that give temporary solutions to the system. I say this because the subsidiary doctors' procedure was an initiative of your own government, which even helped the system, but unfortunately does not provide permanent solutions. We need permanent solutions in the National Health System, permanent positions that will meet the needs of medical and other personnel. Indeed, we have already said so in this Chamber that we are planning to gradually transform the positions of subsidiary doctors into positions of curator II or I or whatever is necessary in order to fill these major gaps. However, at the given moment, we have received and tried to provide immediate solutions, which are travel and ancillary staff. You know, too, because you come from a region outside Athens, the problems that exist - and are over time - in covering the positions that are being put forward. Too many barren come out. We have already said that we will bring in a package of measures with regard to the incentives that we will give in order for doctors to go to cover these positions. We are all trying and I believe that in a very short time we will be able to fill the greatest gaps that exist. As far as the position of pathology is concerned, I told you before that doctors' crises are going on, there is a pathology/oncology position and there is planning and planning for the next crises that are in the process of being called, so that we can fill these gaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, Minister. We move on to the debate on the seventh, with number 984/25-8-2020 on the second-cycle question, by MP I' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Direct resolution on the question of the production and disposal of school meals in western Thessaloniki". Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs. Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the issue to which the government is being controlled is a matter of deep humanitarian, social sensitivity, which he built together in a series, a package of measures to halt the deep humanitarian crisis in 2015, when people were looking to find food in the trash, when suicides had reached a huge number, when, when, when, when, we found out that one of the vulnerable groups, the group of children should be able to obtain and need immediate, necessary protection and support. Unfortunately, and the answer you gave us in the written question that we tabled 30 Members of SYRIZA in May, and you replied one month later, essentially by typing the huge gaps, especially for the region of western Thessaloniki, where you noted, in your own text, that from the budget of 12 000 000 only 2 000 000 have been used up. That the three of the four municipalities, the Municipality of Naples - Sicily, the Municipality of Ampelokipou - Meneme, where the programme was completely cancelled, where in one municipality of Naples - Sicily the information was sent to the Court of Auditors, where in the other municipality of Elosmos - Cordeliou, it is under the control of the Court of Auditors, it remains and creates and - if you want - further increase the concern about what is happening. Is that paperwork? Is it incompetent? Is it unstable? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is enough to tell you that by February 2020, on the basis of the data, your data, that is, in the middle of the school year more than fifty-four thousand meals, that is 30% of the meals planned for schools throughout the country were not available. In Attica, nineteen thousand meals. In Macedonia, twenty-four thousand meals. In western Thessaloniki eighteen thousand meals. And below, the Peloponnese of six thousand meals and some islands of five hundred meals. Is the question left, does your government continue to believe that school meals are piled up for undignified people? You have received on the basis of your own text here and bear your signature, what you have done, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Michailidou, from 25 June to 31 August, so that municipalities do not appear again, which, while there is a budget, the one guaranteed by the SYRIZA government for the year 2019-2020, do not exist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u22	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u23	Madam President, I ask for your understanding and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u24	Because you've exceeded time by a lot, as you know, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u25	I'll be right back. In particular, then, do not answer me. Answer the citizens of western Thessaloniki. You have arranged for children to begin on September 7th, or on September 14th, as you stumble and say 'at the same time from September in all departments, warm meals will begin'...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Comrade, please. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. My answer is, of course, before the National Representation, but to you, Mr Triantafylides, they are to all our fellow citizens, and of course they are throughout Thessaloniki and especially the western one. Thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to inform all of you and to say that I should rather respond to a more general aspect of school meals and management made by both the Ministry and OPEKA in my protology, and in my dentext to go specifically to Western Thessaloniki. You know very well what we have said and say again and again, we state that we have not come to break down everything we have found, that what we found is not positive, we do not tear it down and build on it. So we build on school meal policy, build on it with warmth. The benefits as you know are multiple, because the municipalities and schools within those selected have been selected on socio-economic criteria, so the state comes to support in these difficult days, especially the coronary families who are most in need. But, beyond socio-economic criteria, the criteria are also nutritional. We support not only socio-economicly, but also nutritional, if you like, children's education through meals that are well-structured. For the school year 2019-2020, the programme concerned a total of eighty-five thousand pupils in a thousand two hundred and twenty-seven school units in seventy-four municipalities across Greece with a budget of 74,000,000. The pandemic that, of course, interrupted the smooth operation of this programme, why? Because we had more than two months or almost two months to which the schools did not function, and as is natural after these two months, school meals could not be given. As you know, this is part of all public procurement, and because of force majeure public procurement is being interrupted. So let me point out here that something that is numerical, if you want, self-proof, what is that? The reductions to which you refer are nothing other than the non-absorbing of funds, a situation which was created precisely because of the pandemic of the coronary with the subsequent closure of the schools. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] For our part, however, we did not leave the case to her luck, and you should know that. You know very well that we paid an exceptional financial allowance to all the beneficiaries, not only to these seventy-four municipalities in the country, to all the beneficiaries of a minimum guaranteed income, that is, what? To our most economically vulnerable fellow citizens with children, an exceptional allowance of EUR 100 to EUR 300 according to the number of their children, so that we can help them as much as we can in these difficult days of the pandemic. However, once again, on the question of appropriations relating to the contracts to be implemented, I would stress that, thanks to our actions and not euros from these amounts, it has not in the end been lost by the beneficiaries. We have taken immediate action to ensure that all the untapped funds are allocated for the benefit of the beneficiaries. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Is that why we did this? We did two things. The first is that we amended, so that for the first time - here you give me less than a minute, Madam President, and I beg your pardon - the schools start in September and for the first time the hot school meals start in September, every time on the grounds of objections, because of a competitive procedure, meals started in November. For the first time, due to changes in contracts and four years for the first time, meals start in September as soon as schools start. The second thing we did is that we have already launched a competition for 1-1-2021 by the end of the school year, so that we can prevent the delay of the competitive process and ensure that we do not make the mistake of the previous years. What? Since they were stepping on the competitive process, the various companies were setting up a time-lag and were not coming on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u29	Minister, the nine-year-old girl in Rhodes, who fainted at the bakery, must be a vigilant bell to reflect in practice and not any social sensitivity. I'm saying that why? The serious concern with regard to uncertainty, inadequacy, weakness, overcoming bureaucratic demands that we were able to overcome and were not at the beginning of the year. At the beginning of the year the classes must enter a road, they must be able to restore a flow of movement and functionality to then incorporate the meal process. As you know, there is no infrastructure in existing school schools, because this also stayed at the last hour of each day, to share this school meal, which actually enabled all children to feel solidarity and fellowship between them as equal, on the one hand. On the other hand, with the approval of the Agricultural University to judge the nutritional value and importance of the specific products that were of Greek origin, thus supporting the local Greek primary production. What, however, concerns, after all you have said on other issues, you have cut the benefits of disabled children, the subsidy of the rent, the minimum guaranteed income that we have set up, a number of other presences are in doubt, the vouchers in nurseries, the free public services, the CFPs, home aid, day care centres for elderly people, the free health coverage of the population and the access of unsafe people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All this comes in detail, because this region of western Thessaloniki, the municipalities that I mentioned before, based on the data of the National Statistical Office, are effectively tested, shattered. Social cohesion is being shaken by the huge unemployment rate. In every home tested by unemployment these babies, especially for primary school, will go to school and this must be supported. This year you were unable to do so, and I specifically asked you about the three of the four municipalities. Only the Municipality of Paul Mela stayed. Will you overcome bureaucratic problems, inadequacy and weakness? They are the same of this government: for whatever good is happening they are the success of the government, the responsible minister and Prime Minister Mrs Mitsotakis, for whatever failure is happening is a failure, frugality, failure of the administration. At last, take your responsibilities! Give a solution to school meals so that babies don't faint. We asked you for four hundred thousand meals, the two thirds of the school population's eyes compared to primary education. Do it. You can. I'm afraid it's not that you don't want to, but you don't believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Triantafylides, my dear fellow Member, I fear that I have lost a bit of your authority, because there was a lot of evidence in your reply, most of them untrue, and what was true I do not think were very coherent either with the first or second part of your question, so I will try to choose some of them, given how I think I can put things in a cheer and answer. You started with the fact that in previous years no school meals had been given since the beginning of the year, because, as you said, if I recorded correctly, the classes had to get in a way and a flow had to be created so that the situation would be settled. No, Mr. Triantafylides. We're waiting here for you allies, and as I told you, we're the ones we found, we're not tearing them down, but we're building on them. When we manage to give from the first day of the school year warm school meals, which are the way you described them, to the children, we want you allies. We want you allies to recognise this success and see how we are going with such planning and the rest of the years, without any delay. So here, really, I want you allies, and I want you to be honest with us. With regard to a series of misconceptions, which you have recorded, we are going to the state's subsidy policy, and here I am vertical and I am really vertical. We didn't reduce anyone, but no allowance. On the contrary, what did we do? We've established new ones. What? The birth allowance. Every month seven thousand of our fellow humans get about 1,000 euros in first instalment and another 1,000 euros in second instalment for every new birth in Greece. What other allowance did we introduce? I told you the extraordinary contribution we gave to the children, the families who are beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income. So, not only did we not reduce it, as you accuse us, but given the needs of the coronary, we increased it. What else did we do? Baby Stations. We give 18% more beneficiaries than in all previous years. In other words, we are increasing by 15 000 the beneficiaries of the so-called voucher for nurseries. If you have not read it, I would like to give the relevant information. We are building a parallel programme in which we increase income limits, on the one hand, and the other, on the other, is that for the first time we put all civil servants inside. To testify this in the Minutes, as far as western Thessaloniki is concerned, I'm telling you that there was a lot of evidence that you gave us, so I'm trying to answer as much as I can. As far as Western Thessaloniki is concerned, it is still untrue. The painting I want to testify is for the nine municipalities. What you had written in your question is that there was a problem in three quarters. Oh, no. There was a problem, and it was solved - I will put it in the Minutes - of the nine municipalities in the two. In particular, in the Municipality of Vineokipou - Menemou...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u32	One.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u33	...and the Municipality of Sicily - Naples.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u34	The second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u35	Of the nine. Two of the nine, as you know, are not three quarters. It's the two ninths. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michailidou, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] More specifically, for Sicily-Napolis, as I have already explained in the question you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u36	Naples - Sicily is a municipality.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u37	Yes, it is the Municipality of Sicily - Naples and the Municipality, as I told you, Ampelokipus - Menemes. It's two. It's not right what we're doing, but it's two out of nine. One is Naples - Sicily, and the other is Vineyards - Mennemenes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u38	You increased the Municipality of Thessaloniki. It's six.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u39	They're the two out of nine who don't make three quarters. Both. One had come out, as you said, in the first phase of the Vineyard - Menstrued barren competition, but there has been a re-opening. In the other, Naples-Cykeon, we have already carried out an action of the Court of Auditors and we will immediately have the results for the contractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u40	You said that in June. Now what do you have to say, six months later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the debate of the first under number 973/24-8-2020 on a second time question from the Halkidiki MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Halkidiki's society asks for explanations of the restrictive measures now. The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. My colleague, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 13 August the Civil Protection Policy suddenly decided to impose restrictions on the hours of shops in Halkidiki, while on 20 August it was sent to the citizens' mobile message from Civil Protection that the prefecture presents an increased epidemiological burden, escalating the measures and imposing a number of painful bans on society and the economy. Eighteen days after the first bans and nine days from the mini-lockdown, the number of cases is two on average per day, in one prefecture - Mr Minister, I should like to inform you - which is in northern Greece and below Thessaloniki, in a prefecture of ten thousand inhabitants, with an area of almost three thousand square kilometres, with five municipalities, with eight eight eight villages, inexperienced settlements, with regions, which are inaccessible, mountainous areas, others relating to tourism, other areas relating to rural development, industrial areas. So three days ago, you decided to extend these strict measures and on the same day, the county had zero cases. So was yesterday, zero cases. So today, we heard the argument that Halkidiki dispersed the coronary throughout northern Greece. The Minister said so, the State Secretary for Civil Protection said so, and the pro-government newspapers said so. So we want to ask you directly: why is a whole prefecture being dealt with in this horizontal way? You referred to the youth parties that led to the dispersion of the coronary in the nursing home in Thessaloniki. We wonder why the control mechanisms failed to prevent such events, particularly when you know very well that such large entertainment centres exist in all areas of the prefecture and are very specific what these areas are? Why in May and June have you entered a conflict with the young, instead of sensitizing them? Why, Minister, at the Green Olive Processing Plant, did you not mention with concrete figures, with the large string of cases? Here government omissions are large and have been discussed strongly in local society. In this region there was a problem similar to that of the processing plant in Kavala. In Kavala, however, it did not become a horizontal mini lockdown across the county, contrary to Halkidiki. In this case, what is officially denounced is the late reaction of the EGE. This fact therefore requires information, because soon the olive harvest begins and we have not yet seen the health protocols on the safety of workers and citizens. To conclude, Minister, for ten days we have asked for the head of the Ministry of Health to inform us of the decisions you made on Halkidiki and to provide us with the information, which will justify the painful restrictive measures for the entire Halkidiki law, which was horizontal, because we say and repeat that public health is above all and we support all necessary measures to shield the population. We are, however, asking for information so that the need for measures to become an estate of all and that they are fully understood by society as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Malama, you started your question by telling us everything happened all of a sudden. Let me tell you that, fortunately, nothing happens with this government. There is a plan, there are data, specific procedures and specific decisions aimed at ensuring the health of citizens. You are also using excesses in your questions, with which - let me say - you probably would like to satisfy your constituents and perhaps to obtain more votes. Because under no circumstances can I give any other explanation by reading the phrases you use, such as the 'Halkidiki targeting' or 'conflict with young people'. None of this applies. Our Government, with the guidance of the National Committee of Experts, its operational arms, the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, the Ministry of Health, the National Agency for Public Health and the 4th Health Region, has acted quickly and effectively, in any case, ensuring the safety of citizens, not only in Halkidiki, but also in all the wider areas around it. The citizens, fortunately, understand and have, after all, become involved in the efforts to tackle the pandemic, and these are due to a large share of the current good situation. Measures and restrictions have been imposed, which is why we are in control today. These measures are not permanent. The epidemiological situation of each region is assessed day after day and we are taking the decisions that we need to take. In the case of Halkidiki, the right decisions were taken and appropriate measures were taken. I remind you of what we had to deal with: Factory with fifty cases. Two cases camping in children. Painting with cases. Two thousand-person concert with three workers confirmed and one case of which the nursing home was infected with the thirty-eight-eight-old cases. And you're coming to ask us why we took these measures? What can we say? Fortunately, people understand. Since the first time it was mobilised by the National Public Health Agency, a mobile team, which has reached the area since 28.5 carried out forty-six missions in the region of Halkidiki and has received at least six hundred twenty-six samples. Whenever required in the region of Halkidiki, more mobile groups can operate which sweep municipalities and areas, all of which are thirty-nine. As far as the health structures of the Halkidiki Prefecture are concerned, I would like to inform you that the health centres of the prefecture are ready to deal with any incidents of Koroni, as was, after all, on the standstill at the beginning of the pandemic. They are adequately staffed and personnel have received all necessary instructions to deal with cases and have been trained in receiving a molecular control nano-pharmaceutical swab. A mobile unit of EGE is located at the Cassandra Health Center and as far as the Halkidiki General Hospital is concerned it is equipped. There are nursing and medical staff, which also operates an emergency department, who is able to sort patients with coronary. Also, we have equipped and operates in the yard room of the hospital, "CISCO" for emergency sampling. We have established, as we are doing all over the country, and we have implemented a series of health protocols on related situations with the coronary. We've shaped since the beginning of the pandemic overmodern clinical treatment of patients with a coronary of 12 isolated chambers, with a capacity of thirty - eight beds. We have trained all the hospital health staff in the application of personal protective equipment, as well as the staff of all health establishments. The IM's capacity has increased from three beds to six. It is also prepared with the required medical equipment, which came from donations, the care unit. As of 21 August 2020, a Molecular Analyst of the closed-type molecular analyst for addressing and carrying out emergency checks, controls on patients of the artificial kidney unit, pre-operative checks and controls on the safety of hospital staff and hospital staff shall be carried out. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u45	Me too, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the two thousand young people who attended the concert are certified to have COVID -19? So does the 50 people of the factory? Because you didn't give us evidence like that. Checks were carried out, the evidence, the results you did not give us, though. Nevertheless, I leave that and I say this. Since I should not be speaking with the reasoning you said before, that I am addressing my constituents or looking for voters, I would like to read you a passage, and I will present it in the Minutes, from the announcement of the Halkidiki Medical Association, which calls on you - not all those who participate in the Halkidiki Medical Association - to go ahead with the world's information, finding a lack of justification for epidemiological decisions. It says in particular: "We consider it necessary for a press conference to be held by the relevant bodies of Political Protection and EGE, which would highlight, given the criticality of the situation, and justify horizontal action for the whole of Halkidiki". The Halkidiki society also wonders: Since the epidemiological burden is so great in the county, why has the public health system not been strengthened? Why is the molecular analyst not working at the Halkidiki General Hospital, unlike what you're saying to us, Minister? That's not my word. It's the club's all this and all the rest of the Halkidiki institutions. Why didn't the six EGE's mobile tracking units work only one in Cassandra, while you announced six? Why do local authorities denounce damaged faxes and phones and do not respond to EGE? In the Minutes and in this public letter from the President of the Halkidiki Community, pointing out the problem. Why have the subsidiarys of the Halkidiki General Hospital, also been unpaid for months, who have been hired to rehabilitate the coronary? Why is health centres, Mr Minister, the county, regional hospitals, still understaffed and without protection? These are all complaints of the same, not my own words. It is not enough to resort to individual responsibility. We should be able to explain also about collective responsibility, responsibility, that is to say, the state, which, with declarations from top institutional actors, stigmatizes Halkidiki, but at the same time does not provide any means to protect it. I write down the letters, not my voters, of the clubs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u48	Mrs Malama, you keep doing what you don't understand. You tell us that we are not taking steps to protect the population of Halkidiki. When we take measures you come here and blame us for taking these measures. At a concert of two thousand people we had three confirmed employee cases and one of which was contaminated with a nuisance home. What were we supposed to do? Shouldn't we check it out? Shouldn't we be tracing it? We traced it. I told you we don't take the measures accidentally or suddenly. There are data, mainly epidemiological data, which are weighted and made by the relevant decisions. I explained the situation that the government was asked to face in the case of Halkidiki. Big epidemiological of dispersal cases. We proceeded quickly and we took steps. Targeting and programming checks were carried out. Halkidiki Hospital and all structures are on guard. Molecular analyst works. The health exclusions and all the measures imposed were considered necessary in order to protect the health of the population. Above all, our aim is to protect the public and the health of every citizen. We haven't taken these decisions at random, nor have we targeted Halkidiki. It all happened following recommendations and directives and always according to the data provided by the National Public Health Agency and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. We are here to deal with the best, but also the worst, scenario, in order to overcome this crisis with the least possible losses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the third under number 974/24-8-2020 on a second-round question from the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The outbreak of pandemic and the lack of an effective plan for the management of the health crisis", will also respond to the State Secretary of Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think we're in a difficult situation. We all understand that. It is at the limit of the loss of control that pandemic in Greece, and perhaps it is not so important and I think it is not the time to blame, but it is obviously not, as Mr Triantafylides said before, when things go well because of the government and the Prime Minister, and when things are meant to be the responsibility of society, to blame the citizens, to blame the young people, possibly the opposition. Because we have a feeling that soon you will tell us that it is also the popular policy of counter-population for citizens' non-conformity. So we have a real difficulty and there are already serious arrhythmias, which have started to appear in the preparation of the health system. I think that especially what we used to call the field of primary care has been clearly underestimated and I see no plans to be involved in the management of the new, possibly even more severe, outbreak-study phase we are entering. Of course, there are arrhythmias in what you say, scientific supervision of management. You say that we are listening to experts, but the point is that, in the past two conspicuous Sundays, a newspaper pro-government, "Kathemerini", has detailed references to problems, malfunctions, information gaps, non-transparency in data, inadequate access by the members of the scientific committee to the necessary information to recommend to the state and to perform their role. I think you fully understand that this is methodologically very problematic. We therefore have a generalised concern, insecurity and uncertainty in society and on the part of the government we have a sense of non-projectivity, and indeed an emergency plan, which will strengthen epidemiological surveillance and surveillance and intervention at this stage, will extend preventive diagnostic controls and, indeed, in a targeted way rather than retrospectively. Mrs Michailidou left, who interviewed you yesterday in the breafing at the Ministry and I see in the 'News' Saturday: 'Metra - a shield against the covid'. Now? After all these months? When it has emerged for a long time that there have been closed structures of special vulnerability which need to be provided for early intervention and for preventing the spread of cases?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Colleague, I would ask you to enter the question and then place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you. So I think there are too many questions. I am not in a position to do so now, and I shall refer in detail to the second reading. The main question is: What exactly is the updated plan at this stage, which will give citizens the safety mark, the credibility mark, which helps social and political consensus and people's compliance? That is what, with the help of I think, of the political system as a whole, we have succeeded in achieving the first period and, unfortunately, it has not been exploited. Time was left to pass, without a serious deposit and the advantage that our country had built with the health management it had in the first phase of the pandemic was lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Xanthi, you're starting wrong with your question. You ask us what is the government's political planning to prevent the virus from spreading exponentially. There is no exponential virus dispersion in the country right now. You're also telling us if there's a plan. A plan was in place since the beginning of the pandemic and we have been prepared since then for the worst scenario, and with this plan we went to date and have the results we have. As you referred to Mrs Michaelidou and to the nursing homes, I tell you that we left no one behind at the beginning of the pandemic. Other countries did not declare the dead to the nursing homes. There was no death in the nursing homes, no problems. We have dealt with them all, and whenever necessary, intervene and face decisively. You must decide in the Opposition whether you are with us at the battle of the coronary or not. You should tell all Greeks and Greek women who see you, because I think you are suffering from political instability and imbalance. You told us at the outset that 'Yes, the government did well, but now there are problems'. It is a typical example of this evening, let me say it, with Mrs Malama who has given up for us because we have taken measures in Halkidiki. And you come and tell us we don't have a plan to...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u55	The epidemiological evidence is we want...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u56	But you told us we targeted Halkidiki. But I don't answer you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u57	Please. Please. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u58	It is therefore at least funny to have this serious issue tackled, because we are at a critical stage and need to move together, with consensus and where there are problems or gaps we all face together. We need the responsible and trustworthy criticism of a serious opposition. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, I am sorry that you, a mild politician, with great experience in the field of health, as former Minister and at the same time as a doctor, could, with your responsible attitude, point to mistakes and omissions in the effort that is being made to tackle the pandemic. I'll answer your questions. Axle number one: health crisis management plan. I said it all along. The project existed from the outset and this project is evolving. Every day that passed since the beginning of the pandemic we gained time to further strengthen the health system and better respond to increased needs. We have implemented up to today the six thousand and fifty-five recruits of subsidiary medical, nursing and other personnel, and we continue, when our initial goal at the beginning of the pandemic was two thousand. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I will take some time from my denology. Approximately two hundred and fifty appointments of permanent medical staff of various specialties have been carried out and they have been processed in the relevant departments. By the end of September, we will also have appointed nine hundred permanent doctors in this specific notice. Another eighty-five-year-old doctors, who were proclaimed for islands and remote areas, are on the crisis councils and will be completed rapidly. Finally, there are four hundred specialisations from which, as we have said, when the National Representation is informed by the Ministry of Health about the coronary, within the framework of Parliament's control and the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, the two will cover intensive treatment units and will be announced in the next few days. Our aim is to be completed in the course of the next November. Adequacy of personal protective equipment. We left no one at the beginning of the pandemic without personal protection. Of course, we have also ensured that for one reason or another, because we were able to control the flow of these instruments to the health structures of the country. We were, we are, and we will be in full adequacy, and I want to stress this. The needs of staff and patients shall be covered and fully covered. Stocks were created by both the state and with the help of donations from individuals and not, and are created through competitive procedures of hospitals, healthcare communities, the National Central Health Procurement Authority and the IFET. We are creating, for the first time, the necessary strategic reserve of personal protection instruments. We create adequacy in intensive care beds, dedicated to coronary use. Let me remind you that in July 2019 we received five hundred and fifty seven IF beds and a year later we were in the nine hundred operating and aiming - very soon we will achieve it - the European average of the thousands of two hundred IF beds in the country. Of the total of nine hundred IF beds, currently operating in the country, are two hundred developed exclusively to cover patients with coronary virus, and I would remind you that in the first period of the pandemic this number had reached the four hundred beds. Therefore, at any time, we are ready to adapt, reorder our powers to meet our needs. At the same time, we are working intensively towards the implementation of donations made at the ERC to create new intensive care units. More specifically, from the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, we create a hundred fifty-five new IF beds and nineteen new MF beds in places available to the hospitals. From the important donation of the Greek Parliament to the General Hospital of Salvation, we create fifty new beds of ITH and other donations and approved projects of the NSRF, we create twenty-five new ITH beds and nine new MFF beds. We increase the reference hospitals, thus preparing better for a new wave of the pandemic, with more hospitals available with a number of exclusive use beds for coronary and similar intensive treatment units for heavy incidents throughout the country, while keeping the number of beds committed to all hospitals in the country for the exclusive hospitality of both suspects and confirmed coronary cases. Primary health care structures are the point of first contact for the citizen with symptoms of the coronary. Our plan has included primary health care since the beginning of the pandemic. We've said it too many times. There were also health centres exclusively for suspected coronary cases and, of course, more than three hundred health centres throughout the territory came in order to obtain services or be considered as a suspected coronary case. Fortunately, not all primary health care has had to enter the battle, but in any case the structures are prepared, not only the public structures, but also the whole primary and secondary health care in our country, private doctors, contracted doctors with the EEAY, the doctors who daily served our fellow citizens during the pandemic period. After all, all this has been foreseen by the acts of legislation which the Greek Parliament has legally ratified, and of course, in any case, whatever it takes, we will do so in order to meet the needs of the private sector. In this way, we succeed in dismantling the nursing movement in hospitals, protecting citizens from possible infections, so that they do not come into contact with the hospital structures of the country and we had the opportunity, during the pandemic period, to create new services at primary health care level, such as home visit, hospitality and telecounselling. As far as laboratory diagnostics is concerned, we have expanded and enlarged the population, which is subjected to laboratory testing. From the beginning of the pandemic so far we have 15 times the daily number of tests carried out. I would remind the National Representation that at the end of February we started with eight hundred tests a day, four and a half thousand diagnostic tests in May, six and a half thousand tests in June, and today we have exceeded twelve thousand tests every day. A total of seven hundred thirty thousand diagnostic tests have been carried out to detect the coronary within sixty - five days. In addition, we have multiplyed the sampling points, reduced the cost of the sample under consideration and ensured availability and adequacy of reagents and analysts for emergency needs. In cooperation with the European Union, we are also taking part in the European Union's initiative to supply the vaccine, as well as in order to ensure the adequacy of the remidib drug in the country, where this supply of the medicine is done both at the expense of the European Union and with its high supervision.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u59	Minister, I think you should leave some of these for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Madam President. It is an absolute priority for us to create a climate of confidence in the citizens. We have built trust with the citizens, gained this trust, and we will retain it by every means, without discounts and no impressions, always telling the truth, always saying a single number every day, which is the actual number of confirmed cases in our country and in this effort we are waiting for us to be sick, disproved all the make news scenarios. Here, we have repeatedly called for the position of Officer Opposition - and not just - in terms of the handling of these scenarios. You, Mr Xanthi, are one of the few, because of your experience, which you can, with knowledge, understand reality and how we have worked to date and in the context of citizens' information.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u61	Minister, please very much, you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Madam President. The battle with the coroner enemy will have to get us all the winners. In this battle, there are no parties, there are society and its citizens, and that is why the National Committee of Experts are involved in scientists of all political shades, only on the basis of their high level scientific adequacy. This committee, these scientists who are it, is the crucial and decisive factor in the decisions made by the government and the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u63	And I thank you, Minister, you have also taken a tritology, not just a secondary one. Mr. Blonde has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u64	Dear Minister, the answer you have just given, in my opinion, must be that society must be concerned. I think there is a very clear tendency to depreciate the risk and beautify the situation, let me say. You don't seem to have an accurate picture of the risk currently present in the country. You must do this sincerely. So you cannot tell us that they are all well-burned, there is a plan, which is being implemented, but we simply have a little problem right now, which we will deal with. Let me say that I know very well what I'm writing. I say to the question: 'What is political planning to prevent exponential growth?'. I do not claim there is an exponential increase and I know what these terms mean. So here, there is a matter - and I told you that there is - at the core of management. It comes from everywhere, not just the publications, from everywhere. It appears that there is a problem of relationship, cooperation between the EGE, Civil Protection, the Ministry, the Committee of Experts and other critical links of the State Mechanism. There is a problem, and the problem that Mrs Malama mentioned earlier is another one. It is the problem that you do not have the sensitivity of epidemiological data and the burden, which arises for each region to go with the scientists to expose it to local community representatives, to make them a sound and reasonable risk assessment, to understand people and to consent to the necessary measures. You do not do this because you have a centralized logic “decide and order”. From the news releases, mayors, health professionals, people who will be affected by restrictive measures are taught. Of course, there is no compensation, no provision in these interventions, which I say is necessary to support the local economy, to support the firms affected, jobs, people's income, to strengthen the public health system. So your plan - in my view - does not result or rather what comes out of the presentation of the Pissaridis project is a project, which is not about the public system. In the Pissaridis project, there is not the term 'public health system', which is supposed to make use of European resources, in order to make a serious investment and to provide a pandemic deposit. Neither plan nor political credibility at this stage, so social and political consensus is very difficult. Do not now look for guilty men at the stand of counterpopulation. We have given you very little responsibility, serious and substantiated criticism and support. What we are now seeing is that you are boasting and acting, depending on the evolution of numbers, without a structured plan, and that is a problem. We, Mr Minister, do not invest in failure, obviously neither are we seeking the health tragedy to be justified or politically profitable. It's for us a national target to stop the pandemic. It is a matter of dignity, survival and social cohesion for our country and for its people. We will, at least for our part, do what really belongs to us. We will carry out a documented and serious audit and put forward alternative proposals. In the next few days, we will give you a plan for how, in our view, public primary health care structures, health centres, their regional hospitals, local health units across the country and their human resources will be able to play an active role at this stage.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u66	Don't tell me now that primary care was involved, because you set five in Athens and two in Thessaloniki, reference health centers COVID, which were mostly not involved and were not handled by cases, and the vast majority of them were directed to public hospitals. Two-three clues...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Comrade, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u69	Please. You've been in five minutes. Please, why are we all out of time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u70	I shall conclude, Madam President. You have a problem with the data. Do we want to get back to us now: The number of tests carried out is the whole public and private sector? Is he the only one that's done by public laboratories? When will you start to compensate for the tests that citizens pay 100% of their pockets when they are forced to go to private workshops? About six and a half thousand recruits, will you give us an update of them per hospital? The last time we took was three months ago, to really see how many doctors and how many nurses, the critical specialities, and possibly how many other staff have been hired? These are critical, so that we too have the image that we need. Of course, you can answer us whether there will be a question of the contracts before the subsidiary staff of doctors and other workers ending in the next period. Is that an answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to develop the question is two minutes. Your speaking time is three minutes. Please don't double 'cause we have so many questions. It's not that I don't want to let you talk. And the Minister - that I will introduce to him now - must also be consistent in his time. Mr Minister, you have the floor, and I would ask you to respect the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u72	Madam President, thank you for understanding. Generally speaking, I think I am consistent in times. Today I got away a little, because it is important and I think we should leave nothing unanswered. I'll be brief in my denture. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you referred to the Pissaridis report - you have done so before - and to the public health system. We've been through it too many times for the public health system. Let's talk about it again because repetition is a mother of learning. We support the public health system. We have proved that during the pandemic period and, of course, it has nothing to do with the public health system as we see it in relation to what you say. Pissaridis is talking about social cohesion, it's about health services. Social cohesion is certainly the result of health services. If the citizen does not have equal access to health services, then what social cohesion are we talking about? I therefore think that the Pissaridis project is complete and clearly illustrates what needs to be done in the country over the next period. I would like to assure the Greek citizens, who are watching us at the moment, that we are a looted machine. There are no disagreements or breaches in the Everyone has a distinct role, and we all give this battle together, and as we have won until now, we will bring it to fruition once more. Mr. Xanthi, my first degree is in mathematics, and we mathematicians use a saying "I believe only in God, for the rest, bring me data". That is what we are counting on in order to make decisions. We are told that you are ‘indeed and behaved by the numbers’. The figures are the ones that enable us to make sound and substantiated decisions. As far as the staff of the National Health System are concerned, you were accusing us at the outset that there were no recruitments we were talking about. You have also found that there were, because yes, we have informed and submitted the information in the Minutes and we will, of course, do so in detail. There are, of course, "GENERAL" but now that we're even over our original programming you come and tell us the same things again. I have been very detailed and very clear in answering all the questions. It is impossible to agree on everything and I respect your approaches to policies, although we do not adopt them. But I will insist on one point that I think is very important. You have to answer us sometime. We are clear about this. Do you think we're hiding the truth? Do you think something false has been said? Finally, let us not leave shadows because we have a battle in front of us, which we must give, and we must give it to the victorious, alone or all of us. I wish we were all together. If you don't want to, it doesn't matter. Otherwise, you will be responsible for all the science fiction scenarios that are circulating and which, as long as you do not disprove them, are, unfortunately, maintained at the expense of society. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too, Minister, for being time-consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u74	All this with the "scientific fantasy" to cut them off! It's right-wing right-wing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Comrade, please. We move to the fourth under number 979/25-8-2020 on the second question of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health on the subject: 'Strengthening and staffing of the Centre for Health of Kastelios'. The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, because you have raised a number of questions relating to the general issue and the position of Disarmament as a whole, in addition to the Qualifications, I shall have the opportunity to say a few words and because of the incidental issue with the measures taken today in Heraklion. But I come to my question in relation to the Castellii Health Center. The pandemic, indeed, highlighted the great value of the National Health System, but at the same time also the need for its regeneration. It is very important that it has stopped all thoughts of privatization and all thoughts about concessions to the different interests of the good of health provision. The primary health care is clearly and is the basis. It needs upgrading, consolidation of the institutions that have operated. There's pandermia, like TOMY, PEDY, health centers. To have an upgraded primary health care institution, civil-type health centres, health centres for the countryside, for non-urban areas. The Castel Health Center, which has been operating for thirty-five to thirty-six years, has provided important work. But now you need to know that it needs to be doubled, first of all, because it is already ageing as a building and as a structure and it needs renewal and upgrading, but at the same time, there is the major international airport, which will only employ thousands of workers and professionals, much more in its operation. There have already been accidents at work and the need for the next period will be high to deal with the health issues. That is why I say, Minister, that we need, first of all, a study by you to upgrade the health centre which also concerns the building, which needs maintenance, expansion and energy upgrading, according to the existing programmes and where this can be integrated. The second thing we need is to provide the necessary equipment and, of course, direct staff with the health staff, with the auxiliary staff that is necessary. For example, while you actually hired a dentist, there is no dentistry seat and while the U.S. is currently in supply of ten dental seats, there is no provision for Kastelli. He was hired a cardiologist in Arkalochori to serve Kastelli and there is no cardiological tombographer. It is very important that we obtain these two for Castelli. It is preconditions for its operation to be upgraded. The ambulance is in progress to obtain it, but this supply is delaying. What's there now is old. He's done five hundred and thirty thousand miles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u78	Of course, as far as human resources are concerned, I think you know them. Some have now been hired because of COVID, but there is a need for permanent staff or long-term staff, and this can be done on the basis of the assessment of the increased needs we have due to the new international airport in Kastelis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kegeroglu, the government's goal is not only to upgrade the Castel Health Center, but to upgrade all health centres in the country. It is an extensive network of health centres, more than three hundred, which need to be upgraded both to infrastructures, equipment and support to medical staff, so that we can form an integrated primary health care system, which will complement secondary school, so that there is no reason to go to hospitals and that is unnecessarily loaded. The Health Center in Kastelli is a fully operational primary health care unit. It provides services satisfying the needs of the inhabitants of the wider region. There are seven doctors, three doctors of general medicine, a doctor of pathology, a pediatrician and two dentists. In addition, six general doctors are serving in all regional hospitals, which fall within the Centre for the Health of Castellium and are serving fifteen other doctors. In the case of nurses and other servants, nineteen permanent members of staff are employed at thirty-eight. In addition, two more people work in the field of cleaning and four employees as subsidiary staff. We are strengthening primary health care structures both with subsidiary staff and with permanent recruitment, and we are planning a specific notice of medical staff only for primary health care. In order to strengthen staffing with human resources with the coordinated actions of the administration of the 7th Health Region and of the Ministry of Health from April 2020 until today, five more employees have been recruited and recruited as other ancillary staff and therefore serve as a total of thirty employees in the health centre today - apart from doctors - and without problems they have to ensure that they operate smoothly and serve residents. This, of course, does not mean that we must act or that we are reassuring and, ultimately, that we are not seeking better. I can assure you that we will strengthen all health centres, because, as I said at the outset, we believe that the implementation of our plans to upgrade and modernise primary health care requires, first and foremost, staff adequacy, as you have said, in recent months, we have approved subsidiary staff posts, from which there have been similar recruitments. Crete and its counties are an important part of this design and, therefore, health centers, regional doctors, local doctors operating within its limits. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. The management of the 7th Health Area in cooperation with the competent technical service examines the possibility of financing a study involving a European programme. It also has - you said it yourself - the replacement goes ahead. We've hired a dentist, but we need, and we need to move on to that, to replace the old dentist's seat with new ones, as well as to supply a new ambulance. In recent months important small-scale interventions have been made, but very substantial to improve the day-to-day life of the health centre. Central heating was restored, new air conditioners were installed, the cable power supply was replaced, the interconnection with the main drainage network took place. The needs of modernization, however, are much greater and this is perfectly legitimate and understandable, and I think that together we can find solutions that will give a breath to the health centres in our country and Crete. For this reason, the Ministry of Health has proposed the integration of the upgrading of primary health care structures into the actions to be financed from the package of EUR 73 billion provided by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government from European funds. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u82	Very general, Minister, the EUR 73 billion package. First, about 20 billion is for the agricultural sector, another 20 billion is for the NSRF and 32 for the Recovery Fund. We could be more specific. But I don't stop here. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that clearly all health centres in the country need to be upgraded, clearly following the emergence of the National Health System and primary care as a basic body of public health that our society needs, which is also irreplaceable in cooperation, of course, and with the private sector that can be active in primary care, I think that this approach must be a common place for everyone and is a general need for upgrading and, of course, for the integration of structures that are now fragmented. What's he gonna say about a year and a half? For a year, will they still be working with NSRF funding? What's he gonna say? What do you mean, a health center? These are three different things that should be for the same purpose. They must therefore be integrated into a single institution. So we need a reform here. Political decisions are needed to bring about the integration and upgrading of primary health care. The Kastelli Health Centre brought this as a special case for discussion here, because, as I said, we have the new international airport. This means a direct and huge increase in the population of the region, not only in the long term, but in the working population, who lives every day in Castelli. Construction workers, professionals involved in the construction of the airport, people in Kastelli every day for this reason already exceed hundreds and have an increased risk to their lives and health. In a few months' time, it'll be thousands of workers. That is why we need to provide for and upgrade the health centre so that it can also serve these increased needs. You said yourself that of the fourteen places, they are the seven covered. That's not how it works. We need to see the new circumstances. The X-ray doesn't go too far. We have an assistant radiologist who serves, does the work he can do, but the contract ends in October. It is not foreseeable what will happen. So we want a permanent radiologist. It takes, as I have said, the cardiologist available from the Arkalochori Health Center some days for Kastelli to work on an ultrasound cardiological echoographer that does not exist. Are you going to get a cardiotic ultrasound recorder? There's general, but he's about the radiologist. You said about the dentistry station. In this direction you need to move with a upgrade study for new needs. Personal needs, because it works marginally. The ambulance crew can take out, doesn't take out three shifts, how much more to meet needs, licenses, or even exceptional circumstances. It can't be done. I have brought it as an example, but it also needs more attention to the assistant staff, because they have indeed been hired seasonally and because of COVID, but it needs more care. A word - and I am closing - on the more general subject. There are issues. The opposition, as far as we are concerned, has a creative attitude. More than two hundred proposals have been tabled to you in the first phase and in the second. In particular, there have been serious issues, serious mistakes which have nothing to do with your Ministry alone, mainly with other ministries. But we see it every day that there is inertia in other cases panic. In the case of Heraklion, which occurred yesterday in eleven cases, we need to know where they are. We cannot say 'tens of cases in the Heraklion Regional Unit' have a specific origin. So instead of enclosing and enclosing where the mass of the eleven was, most of the cases from the eleven, there was a universal decision, a general decision that "you know, we close them, there are no people, there are no...".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u83	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Madam President. Decisions to limit measures should be specific. Today we have two. Although in the next few days, we have one to two, which is the usual, why will there be fifteen days of universal suffrage? Yesterday it was eleven, today it's two. Whilst tomorrow there are two, will there be a review of this decision? But opposition, as far as we are concerned, is creative. Not only are they fast news all that is said, but we liken them to what we heard about the crisis, that they were Zionist scenarios, that they were America's neotaxists and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u85	Mr Colleague, I would ask you to complete this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u86	We would therefore like, Minister, to have more interest in Kastelli and, of course, an answer, if you are ready, about what will happen with the measures taken for Heraklion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u87	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, I believe that neither do we disagree with the points on the current state of the Centre for Health in Kastelli nor with what needs to be done. You said - and I will agree with you - that there is a fragmentation in primary health care. It is an area where someone who is involved in the health field could say that I was 'I was young and old'. Since the establishment of the National Health System we have been discussing primary health care. I think the time really has come to have an integrated primary health care system. We are in a position shortly to present our plan for primary health care, so that this fragmentation does not exist, focusing on the country's health centres. Now, as far as the coronary and the incidents in Heraklion are concerned, let me say that many times we see the tree and we lose the forest. It doesn't matter just the number of cases. We must see how these cases are moved, what they are spreading and this is done through tracking. And if we've achieved what we've done so far, it's because we have a high degree of traceability. We are one of the countries that makes the most number of tests in Europe, but it is not only that, it is the tracking and movement of cases, of dispersal and how large or small this spread is. It has been explained many times in detail and clearly - I think that the last citizen of this country can understand it - Mr Chardalias in the Ministry of Health's briefings how we control the spread and not just the number of cases in order to make a decision. We are examining all the data and once a decision is taken, it will of course be announced by the competent bodies and not by me, by this Step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the second under number 976/24-8-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'It is unfair to abolish the social criteria in the placement of assistant teachers'. The question will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, you know - I think firsthand - the big problem facing the country and listening to the name 'democratic'. The effort it needs to make to reverse the negative rate that is now there is great. Instead of seeing a plan that will have action in all areas, in order to tackle this problem, we see that measures are being abolished and any measures that have been taken in the past to support the family, to support the people who have one, two, three and more children. I am referring to the previous government's decision and to Mr Gavroglou's law, which abolished social criteria for recruitment to education, abolished the priority of luxuries, abolished the 20% rate for third parties, abolished the rates for disabled people. We come to your government and we keep going. After applying the Gabroglou law, which you denounced as undemocratic and committed to its change, you continued on the same line, in the same policy, and you abolished the social criteria and the placement of teachers, for the placement of deputys. In other words, the provision that existed in addition to the general ranking on the basis of the molecules of the AACC was abolished, on the basis of the criteria that have to do with formal qualifications and ranking, the criterion of unmarried - but married - of parents with one, two, or three children, and, of course, those suffering from Mediterranean anemia or even the more needy ones was abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This abolition of social criteria, unfortunately, has caused huge problems. And my question was - while I tabled it, because it had not yet been implemented - first of all, if you would reformate it, whether you would withdraw this circular. The locations have already been made. And the results of this unfair abolition of social criteria appeared, because people who served near the areas they had requested or who served were suddenly found in very remote areas. The question, therefore, now arises is whether you will give a second chance - as we now have the margin, as it appears that schools will open on 14th month - to make some corrective moves so that the extreme cases of multiple parents with three children, people with disabilities, serious conditions to go near the place they placed first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Colleague, please, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u92	They have, of course, declared the place to which they have gone, but, as you can see, they have done so because today the need to work is huge. Thank you, Madam President. We are waiting for the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleagues, for the opportunity to address important social issues in the context of parliamentary control. You said it was a choice for the government and the Ministry of Education, in particular, to abolish the social criteria of multi-species, tri-species and disabled people in this process of placement of assistant teachers. Mr. Colleague, that is not the case. The government has not abolished any such criterion. The placement of assistant teachers in school units or in groups of schools in the recruitment area shall be carried out on the basis of the tables of the AACC on the basis of the relevant L.4589/2019. In the formulation of the tables, the following social criteria have already been taken into account: For general education, the number of children is mobilised by three units for each minor child for which the applicant has the parental and diligent or single child and has not completed the twenty-third year of age or is studying a foreign institution or a confession institution or fulfilling his military obligation and has not completed the twenty-fifth year of age. Invalidity of 50% or more of the candidate or spouse, provided that the married life has lasted for at least four years or children. In the case of invalidity of more than one person, account shall be taken only of the above rate of invalidity of one of them. Invalidity is reduced if it is not due to any mental illness. Special education and training shall also include those criteria which are set out in accordance with those laid down for general education teachers. If the operational needs of the special education and training are not met by teachers who are part of the evaluation table, they may be recruited as temporary or hourly during the teaching year of teachers who are part of an ancillary evaluation table with inclusion criteria, inter alia, if they are educational parents of children with a disability rate of 67% or more. In the event of the candidates being equal to the overall grade, the candidate who has more units in the social criteria takes the lead in turn. Under this law, a ministerial decision was adopted. First of all, I would like to say that we have indeed disagreed with this law. However, it was very important that the permanent appointments which were actually completed and are the first to take place in history in special education and training, as well as in the preparation of the new tables, should be made more rapid in order to measure the pre-service of teachers and qualifications. We have said that in a later context that we will obviously establish the social criteria will be of greater importance. In the ministerial decision, therefore, which was adopted pursuant to this framework, which was already, if you wish, in application, the criterion of placement is laid down. It is the order of ranking in the rating tables of the AACC. The evaluation tables therefore already contain the social criteria. The social criteria of the candidates for the formation of their order of classification have already been quantified, Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u96	Madam Minister, I think your answer does not include the whole truth. As long as we have a priority appointment on the basis of the AACC tables, based on the success of the AACC, we have the recruitment, in other words, of the substitutes without the contribution of the social criteria, the abolition of the evaluation of these criteria when they are placed is problematic for the multitude families, for the third parties and for those with disabilities. I don't understand your answer and I may be wrong, but I don't. And I'm sure I'm not mistaken, because I've spoken with the Supreme Federation of Multitexts, with comparable people, who have a political identity to our side. These persons consider that at the moment the Ministry incomprehensibly promotes a process which had been legislated by the previous government and which it had disagreed and implemented. Of course, what you have said is not the case, that the social criteria are being taken into account. The same thing I have been told by the Third World Federation. So we have a difference of understanding as to whether or not social criteria are taken into account when recruitment and placement are being taken into account. They are therefore abolished from recruitment and were abolished when they are placed, because they are assumed to be taken into account in drawing up the tables. In that sense, I think this thing is an injustice. I have an example of a man with children who was hired as a deputy to Rethymnon last year who was found in Rhodes, his fourth, fifth choice, far from Rethymnon to whom he went last year. I do not believe that the results and criteria have changed so badly. It is precisely this effect and the change that has taken place. In any case, I do not ask for an answer to myself, but for those who are experiencing the problem today, and I am focusing on the fact that we need to find a way of finding a way for those who belong to the special categories to which you have also referred, since these criteria have not been taken into account in place, to have a second chance in the medium term until they take up duty, until the schools are opened, to make corrections in at least extreme cases and to have the possibility of mutual transfer, which we all know is not in place today. If there are at least cases of mutual transfer, the right to take place in the next 15 days may be granted. I consider this to be an act of justice which can alleviate the negative effects of the Gavroglou Act and its implementation, which you have done in a fierce and faithful manner, while saying that you do not believe in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, you say that recruitment has taken place without taking into account social criteria. That's untrue. In order to show the order in the ranking table, specific social criteria have already been taken into account. I mentioned to you the number of children, the disability of 50% and more of the candidate or wife. Therefore, each teacher's course in the table has taken account of the ASP and these specific criteria. So the process has become earlier. Now, if you ask us if we agree to these social criteria, we have said so. We have said that we wanted greater emphasis on social criteria. That is why I told you that in the new framework for drawing up tables we will prepare, social criteria will have particular emphasis. But, Mr Kegeroglou, if you wanted this law which had too many problems, which is very clear and, in practice, how many problems it has had, it would mean that there would be no permanent appointments, that the permanent appointments would probably be late for years until a new framework has been prepared, that the tenders should be held, that tenders should be made and so on. So, here we considered the permanent appointment of teachers and, of course, the drawing up of new tables, in order for teachers to be selected from more up-to-date tables, tables which will have taken account of the latest pre-service, the latest qualifications of teachers. But let me also mention demographics, because you are right to say that we are actually talking about demographics here. So you say that we are continuing the previous government's indifference to demographics. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy has been particularly concerned with this burning issue, as our planning involved targeted interventions from the outset. And it is not only the reinforcement of each family with 2,000 euros for every child born - and if I am not mistaken it is the first time that a birth allowance has been introduced into Greek legislation as a measure of strengthening demographic policy and the creativity of children - it is the support of families with children of HEIs up to twenty-four years with a social dividend of EUR 700, the increase in duty for each child, the reduction of VAT on infants from 24% to 13%, the increase of the rightholders of children's stations, in order to strengthen this very important policy. So I assure you - and even though it evades my powers to draw up tables, I think I should answer because precisely the Government of the New Democracy has focused on this issue - that, in fact, in the context of the new law on drawing up tables, we will place greater emphasis on social criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too, Minister. Also, the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, will answer the third question under number 980/25-8-2020 of the First Cycle of the Deputy of Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Yannis Delis on the subject: "Exclusion of teachers from the tables of the 1GI/2019 and 2GI/2019 because of mistakes and omissions". Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, a new school year begins tomorrow in unprecedented circumstances. At the same time there are thousands of teachers - several of them pre-serviced - who are in front of the unemployment range. What's happened? In the summer of the past year, the provisional lists for the ranking of teachers were published in the 1GI and 2GI notices of 2019, of which tables are also drawn up for this year's school year. These tables were drawn up on the basis of SYRIZA's Law 4589/2019. It is a law which, of course, reminds us that it literally smashed the pre-service and denounced teachers' degrees. Of course all of this led to very big reconversions and we saw this happen with the special treatment tables when we had the first application of the SYRIZA recruitment law. We recall that in this House last year, the New Democracy said it would abolish this law. This year, he is willing to apply and defend him, as we heard just now from the Minister, revealing, of course, the common stepping up of these parties on the main issues of education. The main issue, of course, is the recruitment of teachers. Thus, in these notices -1GI and 2GI - the same problems were presented in the special treatment notices a few months earlier, but now to a much larger extent and with much more intensity. Thousands are teachers who are out of tables, as their application was rejected by the AACC. Do you know why? Because of a problematic procedure for paying an offense of 3 euros, please! In addition, serious errors have also been observed over the passage of the elements of many teachers, so that pre-services are not properly measured, when wrong criteria are calculated and how they can disappear - yes - whole certificates of pedagogical competence, as we have been reported by teachers. There are also those two-year-old teachers who have not been able to testify to their degrees, teachers who have behind them, Minister, 10, 15, even twenty-year-olds, whose applications have of course been rejected. All the above teachers are now being called upon to object, to pay 20 euros, without having the slightest idea of when and whether they will be justified. For all this, there are too many complaints - and you know that - from the educational federations, the ILO, OLEME, and also from the Citizens' Counselor. Madam Minister, we are asking you - and they hear you, believe, with anguish of thousands of these teachers, who are following today's debate - what you will do at political, but also at legal level, so that no candidates from these notices can be excluded from these notices, as well as from those for special treatment, because of the non-payment of an offender or any other technical problems of the system. What are you going to do to incorporate in these tables those teachers who have not submitted the same form of simulation, teachers with very large numbers - I say again - a pre-service to count all the existing qualifications of the candidates and, of course, what you will do - although the answer is known - but we ask you - for the only real, fundamental, real solution - for the good of the students, first of all, but also of the teachers themselves - for the simulation of all these tens of thousands of deputies who have been working for all the years in education, so that they can operate on the best possible terms, even in these unprecedented conditions, schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Delis, you have a great deal of experience as a parliamentarian, and I think that for years you have heard and heard and that society is listening to the need for permanent appointments to education. So our government came and indeed signed up, made permanent assignments. This is the first time in history that permanent appointments are made in special education and education and for the first time after more than ten years there are permanent appointments to general education. From there, when we had a total complaint because no appointments are being made, now that no appointments are being made, we have again made concrete complaints because, as you rightly say, this issue has arisen, which we have discussed and together if I am not mistaken here many times. Look, first of all, you have raised the paradox in your question. As we have already discussed together, the issue of rejecting candidates for non-payment of offences falls within the competence of the AACC and as you know the responsible Minister supervising the AACC, the Interior Minister made a statement some time ago here in Parliament that he is considering the issue with the AACC and that he will discuss it in detail with the president of the AACC. It concerns the procedure imposed by the AACC, the procedure for the participation of the candidates in this notice. It goes without saying that the Ministry of Education wants to find a solution and it is understood that it will assist with all its forces any solution that the competent body chooses. I would also remind you that, apart from all others, the AACC is an independent authority. I now come to issues that you raise in your question concerning any issues in the drawing up of tables, possible errors invoked by the candidates. That is why the objections procedure is provided for in order to remedy any such issues if they are confirmed. As far as I am concerned, objections have been raised by the candidates and the AACC is already examining them. We too have asked for this examination to proceed as quickly as possible in order to finalise the tables and to take account of the candidates' comments, objections or, if you wish, of mistakes that might indicate in drawing up the tables. You have put it in your question - you have not mentioned it now - and another issue for two-year-old teachers, concerning the non-inclusion of educational 2-year-olds in the provisional evaluation tables for the IT60 kindergartens and PE70 Teachers. There is clearly no exception to the possibility of two-year-olds taking part in the IACC's number 1GC's notice. Therefore, on the basis of the specific framework adopted by this law, there is no possibility of such a right of participation. As I said before to Mr Kegeroglu, it is clear that we did - we have very many differences with this context, but what did we want? Do not make the appointments you specifically ask for massive progress? We didn't want any new paintings? We did not want for the first time in the history of the country to become permanent assignments of special education, for the first time after ten years, to become permanent appointments of general education? Do you want to wait more years? We, therefore, considered that there was a need for us to effectively serve the educational, human resources of education and despite the important objections we had to make to the law, so that today, in this new school year and despite the "cassandras" that said we would not have had time to do so, we would be able to start the new school year for the first time in history with permanently appointed educational and training teachers and specialist staff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u103	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, how inadequate the number of permanent appointments to special education is also seen by the recruitment of alternates who have so far reached twenty-five thousand. And it's probably going to take so many more to cover the gaps in education, in general and in special education. I now come to the question to which our question relates. I think, Minister, that you have been disappointed with your answer by many teachers, teachers who for years have actually given their souls to the most remote schools in the country for the education of children. It has a great responsibility, you know, your own government, which while you can solve this problem, which you theoretically acknowledge that it exists, insists on doing so literally by the Ministry of Education at the Ministry of Interior, by the ASA to the Ministry of Interior and so on. Indeed, here the Interior Minister, when discussing the private education bill, said he would discuss with the president of the SAEP. It's been over a month since, and we don't know what's happened. It's stuck. Meanwhile, there have already been the first recruits of teachers from these new paintings, which do not include all these people. Of course, some time should also be answered. Because while it was proposed by our party, by the JRC, that an amendment should be made to legislation to solve this problem, you rejected it, as the Teaching Federation of Greece proposed a few months ago for special treatment. You'll have to answer for all this sometime. So, the result of all this, Minister, is that we have once more teachers who, while working all these years, as we have said, are now in danger of being out of work, not just for this year's school year, but for the next three years. This is because they have been misled by a problematic operation of the system, assuming that the paradox was paid, or because others, too, paid for by e-banking, it seems that they didn't pay and fly out of the system too. Also, "they" as we said, teachers - that is sin, that is unjustity, that though it is inhumanity - with ten, fifteen, twenty-five years, which have so far been considered capable of forming, teaching, the children of the Greek people and now, because of a law passed by SYRIZA and implemented by you, are being drafted by education. It is also inhuman enough to cancel the dreams and expectations of thousands of teachers, because of the technical errors and problems of the electronic system, or because this electronic system disappears, as we have said, even from teachers with ten years of service, the certificates of teaching competence, who are formally tabling and having all the information on them. All these issues - and you know that very well, Minister - if you do not solve them, and it seems that you do not intend to solve them, will cost these thousands of teachers a job for the next few years, with what this means for their pre-service, with what this means for their personal life. Because those who objected - as you spoke about the objection - will have lost this year, since the procedures of the SAAP are not renowned for their speed. While the objection is rejected, apart from this year, Minister, and over the next two years, they will now be waiting in 2023 to see if they can work. Your responsibility is too great. Even now, in five minutes, since tomorrow's school year begins, we have a few more days until the school opens - we do not know whether it will be on 7 or 14 - to correct this problem, to include all these people in the tables and to be able to work. In this way, to a certain extent, this law - 'carmonal', literally, Law 4589 - for teachers, who are nothing but a competition arena, which, in addition to this eternal chasing of the precise qualifications and with which you too agree, is enough to lead even to redundancies. We expect, at least at the last hour, that you give a political solution, that you consult the relevant Ministry of the Interior and that this problem be resolved quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr President, I note what you said, that the number of permanent appointments is low. There is no doubt that there are too many needs, but we can only underline the fact that we are talking in practice for the first time for fifteen thousand permanent appointments of teachers. Is that ideal? Oh, no. Is it a step in the right direction to substantially strengthen the human resources of education? I think so. And I want to believe that all the parties in this House support this great effort. I would like to make a point here about the AACC. You said that 'we know the rhythms of the ADP'. I must publicly congratulate the AACC and the regional directorates of the Ministry of Education, because it has proceeded with this massive process - we are talking about hundreds of thousands, as you know, of candidates - in adverse conditions, in the middle of a coronary, in very difficult circumstances. Why? Because we, too, stressed the need for appointments to be completed in special education, in order for newly appointed people to take office now on 1 September. And this was done thanks to the persistent efforts and the servants of the Ministry of Education and ASEP. And, of course, to get the interim tables of general education out. We considered this to be extremely important in order to measure pre-services and qualifications. I can assure you, therefore, that the issue you have raised is very serious. We have pointed this out too many times. Efforts are being made, and that is why the Minister responsible, the Minister for the Interior, has specifically announced his efforts in consultation with the AACC. But you said something that you inaccurate, if I may, Mr President. You said about the next three years. Oh, no. We have reduced the duration of the tables from three to two years, in order to measure more regularly the pre-service and qualifications of teachers. If I may, Mr Colleague, the practical support we have shown to teachers is something else. For the first time - and I think you will agree - after too many years, the recruitment of assistant teachers is a long time ago. We were committed to this and, in spite of the difficult circumstances of COVID -19, we acted and the recruitment of assistant teachers was completed much earlier. One more thing. For the first time, the electronic take-up of a service will be institutionalised. What does that mean? An instructor who undertakes service on a Cyclades island does not have to pass through Syros in order to sign the contract. Why is this extra inconvenience for the teacher? For the first time, therefore, we have established the electronic take-up of a service. The teacher goes directly to his school and we consider this to be a very important step towards improving the conditions and conditions of work of teachers as a whole. We will continue, Mr Colleague, to fight in this direction and, of course, we are always open to proposals, to think about further improving the employment situation of our teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. We move to the second, with number 977/24-8-2020, a timely question from the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "None work, but no announcement on the Northern Axis of Crete, which has been to be auctioned since 2012. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, we'll talk about the BOAK. Of course, it is because of the revolts of the governments and the ministers responsible, many times, of the same government, to annul each other. The North Road Axis has been through adventure. Time's rocking. From time to time, design has changed from five years to five years. It is characteristic that eight years now he has part to be auctioned. 2012 was the last auctions. One section is Gouves - Hersonissos, which ended two or three years ago. And the other department was in Panormos - Exantis, which even canceled this project, even though it was mature and had funding and transferred the money of this project to another project than Crete. The previous government of SYRIZA swept a lot of time and dealt more with the system with which the award will be made and the system with which the contractor will be selected and less about the substance, which was the project planning, which was mainly about the studies and basic guidance. Obviously, you'll know that the SYRIZA government transferred responsibility from the OAS to the Ministry. Your government came and since July announced that within two to three months it would have the plan ready - it was already prepared - and no later than December, the Prime Minister would announce what will happen with the BOAK. Of course, there has been a long time without what we committed, what you announced. What you only did, at least on legislative initiative, was to reinstate BOK's competence from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the OAS. In fact, this is a characteristic case of revolt because on 5 August 2019, in response to my question, Mr Kefaliannis, the Minister tells me that ‘the OAS does not have the necessary know-how, expertise and experience in the conclusion of programming contracts, concession contracts and, in addition, the public-private partnership section of the OAS Strategic Planning and Development Directorate cannot have competence for this contract, the estimated value of which exceeds 200 million’. This is a response from your Government in August 2019. Within a few months you have transferred to the OAS, which you say has that responsibility. Questions are specific and concise. I'm filing it. Will you, first of all, honour your choice to serve the OAS with the staff it needs, with the expertise it has, to have the experience to deal with these contracts, since the Ministry itself with your political leadership said that OAS does not have this competence and this experience? Secondly, what final construction, maintenance and operation of the BOAK prejudge, when the announcements of your plan will take place. We've been waiting for them for a long time. Also, at what stage are the studies commissioned by the previous government. Because there had been an elementary preparation and some studies had been commissioned. At what stage these studies are being carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, before we actually ask the question, it is important in this Chamber to hear some truths. Indeed, the work of the BOAK is a project that is of paramount importance to our island and, unfortunately, all governments have not dealt with it properly and, if we want to be honest, two are the main reasons why this project has not finally gone ahead. First, that everyone, unfortunately, was looking only at their own part. For example, you - not yourself personally - the Heraklion MPs in Heraklion, the Chania MPs, the same, we in Rethymnon. Let me remind you that in 2014 I had sent a letter to Mr Arnautakis, where for the first time I invited him, if you would like, to hold a general meeting between all the Members of Crete and, indeed, at that time, the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, had come down and proceeded with this planning. A second basic reason why it must also be said that, unfortunately, there are not the traffic charges on the island at the moment in order to be able to be the specific project itself economically viable. These are the truths that need to be heard. As to what you referred to, first of all, it is not true that we are transferring the powers to build the BOAK to the OAS. Specific responsibilities have been transferred, particularly with regard to road safety, and what the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, said last year, is still in force, and now that the OAS will in fact not be involved in the competition on the North Road, that is to say on construction and maintenance, but will have specific competence with regard to road safety, and of course, we intend to strengthen it to staff and whatever it takes to do this. I should also like to say to you, because you may have forgotten, that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, came down to Chania in February 2020, that is about seven months ago. Alongside a conference in the Antiregion of Chania, the presence of both the district manager and the local MPs, but also of course the mayors of the prefecture, he said in particular the government's plan for the North Axis. So we said that within the next six to nine months, all the studies will be completed in order to move forward in the next stages, and I must tell you, Mr President, that despite the fact that the coronary crisis broke out in the middle, this timetable has been complied with with with very small derogations. We said in particular that the environmental impact study will be completed and presented to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy in the autumn, which I would once again like to assure the National Representation that it is the case. In other words, by the end of the autumn, we will have completed all the studies and promoted them to the Ministry responsible. I would also like to say to you - and I will go further into my dentistry, so that I do not abuse time - that the structure of the implementation for the North Axis of Crete is in progress and is being promoted for completion and includes the two public tenders announced, firstly, the concession contract concerning the study, construction, financing, maintenance and operation of the North Axis of Crete for the Chania - Heraklion section, which, as the Prime Minister has announced, also includes the Kissamos - Chania section, which did not include the previous planning of the previous government. The second relates to the PPP contract concerning the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of the Hersonissos-Napolis section. Also, let me tell you that the actions are going on with regard to the part of the airport connection Chania with the North Axis on the Souda site, which is a very large, important project that was not included in the previous design for the Chania and Rethymnon Prefectures. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u112	Minister, it is an important communication that you are doing, that the Ministry will have responsibility for concessions, for the tendering and implementation of the project, and from what I understand from the context, the plan of the previous government continues. You added, as you said, the Kissamos - Chania section, because of course our view and criticism was that the previous government had cut the project without that being required. He had moved to Chania - Hersonissos, Hersonissos - Neapolitan and from there, until Agios Nikolaos to Sitia as a public project, the second part as a PPP and the first with a concession. I heard about the same thing from you. Kissamos - Chania has been added. BOAK is united, from Kissamos to Sitia, and, indeed, I would say not only BOAK, but also its connections to the vertical axes, because the problem is the whole system of Crete. We believe that the first thing you will see is financing as much as possible from the public side, so that the individual will be asked to put as little as possible. You said that too: there are no traffic charges to justify the toll fee. You have to tolls to be great to do that. So the proposal that had been heard and which I first rushed to welcome from Mr Voloudakis from Chania was to provide funding from the bond profits, so that this project would be carried out most by public funding and, if there were tolls, to preserve and operate, rather than build it. There can't be a closed system on an island with tolls. It will not be possible to do so because there will be no contractors for this project. That is why we need to see the question of funding. You said nothing about this, what will be public funding, since this whole process is under way. Of course, we should look at the issues that have to do, as you said, with the sections. The haircut continues. Here I have, I will present it to you, the briefing you gave me in August 2019, which talks about the three departments and the work that had been done until then. On 15 March 2019 five companies were invited: ‘TERNA’, the Association of Representatives of the Automobile Ariadne, ‘AKATOR’ concessions, a Union of representatives, a consortium, etc., five companies, in a competitive dialogue procedure to proceed with the PPP track from Hersonissos to Naples. He's in progress. Is this annulled procedure or continues? Did the studies, which you said, relate to these pre-studies of a technical consultant assigned by the previous government or related to substance studies, in addition to the environmental to which you referred? So we have the same logic. Granting for the part that we are supposed to have a higher burden and can toll up, and indeed high, public-private partnership for another section. But the public-private partnership is in the previous one, but this is what the government - we had agreed in a broader context in opposition to the SYRIZA's choice - that what is needed is to see the project as much funding as possible from the public, so that we do not have to put a great deal of toll that the citizen cannot pay in Crete. Of course, the previous government said that you know you Cretans won't pay, plundering - there is not that - the tourists will pay. That the government will probably consider tourist suckers, while it will consider us as fair, not to pay. These aren't on the map. There are, of course, local exceptions provided for by the law, but in total, things should be cleared up. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think it's still a blur. Of course you are making progress on the premeditated projects of the previous government, but they do not solve the problem. They do not give prospects and dynamics to the work that needs radical decisions. And above all, tell us what is going on with funding. Is Mr Voloudakis' proposal, which I have welcomed, is it true or is it not? Is there the money or isn't there? With what funding does the government hope that the project will be auctioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Come on, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u114	Mr Colleagues, I will start the latter one more time when we say that the road loads are actually not enough for the viability of the project, not only are we talking about the construction of the project, we are even talking about maintenance. In other words, even if there are tolls - and even tolls will look at the least possible in terms of costs for users - it is still not enough to cover maintenance costs. In other words, even if a magical way is found to make a signal, let us say that we will not need to tolls, we would need to to tolls again, because, unfortunately, the studies have shown that traffic burdens are not such that we can have the project as sustainable. But I shall also mention something else that you have said, and indeed, unfortunately, the previous government has wasted five and a half years and has done something unique: not only has it not proceeded with anything at all, but it has taken us back. You mentioned it in your prototype too. In other words, a project that existed, for example, in Panormos - Exadi, twelve kilometres, a project of about 75 million, was actually responded because of a minister's idealism and, at the moment, this project is currently in the air, because it had not moved from the previous government. What I told you before about the architecture of the project is these two pieces of additional information, of course, which I described to you, but I would also like to be clear: when we say that all of the studies will be carried out toward the Ministry of Energy and the Environment in order to get the environmental conditions, it means that the work will be mature, so we are not just talking about pre-studies, but we are talking about all of the studies. And if you want me to give you a timetable, Mr Colleague, since all the studies are going to take the famous GDP from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, it will take about six to nine months to complete this process, which means that by 2021 the project will be ready for tender, which also means that within a year from then, we have the temporary contractor. In other words, the temporary contractor within 2022 for the project will in fact have emerged. What does that mean, Mr. Comrade? That in the last fourteen months we have matured studies that have unfortunately been pending for decades. I mean, there's been a very concise, quick job, though, from the Ministry. And I think that at the moment we are pleased to tell you that within the next quarter, as I said before, all these studies will be promoted. There is another point, however, which concerns the substance of the matter. Since this whole process is realised that even if we do not have some delays in law, especially until the project is completed, at least, I count together with construction, a seven-year period of eight years, perhaps, you know very well that it is very important for some interventions and are already working on road safety in too many parts of the existing network. So I want to inform you that, for example in 2020, some construction contractors will also be made to deal with landslides in the areas of New York and Agia Marina in the Regional Units of Chania and Rethymno, as well as in the section of Sisis - Fodele in the Regional Unit of Rethymno. In October, work is also planned to deal with landslide phenomena in the areas of Poor Mount, Bad Stretch, HYTA Heraklion and Crucifixion, as regards the Regional Unit of Heraklion, in the Souda - Kalyves section of Chania Regional Unit and the Kazantzakis Crossing in the Regional Unit of Rethymno. By the end of the current year, the road safety upgrade project in Georgioupolis - Petrios in the Regional Units of Chania and Rethymno is promoted. And, at the end of this year, it is being auctioned for upgrading, for road safety projects in Fodele - Linota of the Heraklion Regional Unit, followed by a corresponding auction for the Souda - Kalives departments, Molenari - Lakes in the Lassithi and Skalette Regional Unit - Crucifix of Rethymno Regional Unit. I say these, Mr President, because the essence of the matter is that it is indeed a road which, beyond the strand of development, is also a road which, unfortunately, is also a road to many fatal accidents, so we need to see a uniform strategy, of course, in the construction of the project, but what we are doing in the next few years until the closed highway is built. And I think the interventions, which I have described and which are based on the studies prepared by the OAS, have done an important job on this part, in fact in the coming years, we will also see upgrading of the existing network and, of course, in a few years' time and the completion of a major project such as the North Axis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. And we are going to the last, the sixth under number 978/24-8-2020, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Don't end the suffering of the passengers of Thessaloniki. Direct public health risk is the aggregation in buses of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Organisation (OSTH)’. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. The issue of the organization of suffering, of the real and essentially daily bus stops, in buses, of the virtually irresponsible suffering of all the citizens of Thessaloniki, has no beginning, middle and end. And it continues an open scandal of an organization that for seventy years had been stacking damage and privatising profits for the stock. We are talking, Minister, about what we received in 2015, 102,000 euros of debts, workers unpaid with the constant strikes, buses without maintenance from three to five years, were not granted spare parts because suppliers were not paid. There were two hundred forty-five buses running from the total of six hundred twenty-two between 1990 and 2017, EUR 2 billion a subsidy, to a special state-owned body that was stacking the losses and privatising the profits for the sole benefit of the shares. When you received, the Minister told you in the programme statements on July 22nd, I read in here, "Today there are no more than two hundred buses in the Symposium in Thessaloniki". Soon you will tell me, I say from what you shared an embargo before my placement that in Thessaloniki in July 2019 there were two hundred and ten buses. Contact your Minister, is it two hundred ten three circulating or two hundred sixty? On April 20, the President who put to OSH spoke of two hundred ninety-five buses, two hundred twenty OSH and seventy-five of the co-operation with the CBS, this game you do with the CBS. Three hundred fifty buses, he says, will have in May and five hundred vehicles will be released in September. Kostas Karamanlis, on May 25, when he signed the programme contract with the Municipality of Thessaloniki, said, and he said, for fifty urban buses that will take place around September. Four hundred and fifty buses would have been there, says the workers' president, if we had buses on the streets. On the streets there are only a hundred and eighty buses at the moment we're talking, Mr. Kefaliannis, and don't mock, don't make fun of yourself, don't lie to the world of Thessaloniki, because that's not just what he says in his outlet, which I'll testify to in the Minutes, but the local media say so. It's the OSTH workers' outpost. There are only a hundred eighty buses in the streets of Thessaloniki. You don't believe that? Forget the Triantafylide. Forget SYRIZA. There are pictures of the Thessalonians. “Koroni” says experts' opinions within a hundred and seventy buses. You brought them five hundred in September. Tomorrow we have September 1st. They are pictures stacked by the Thessalonians at the bus stops, in Columbus, at the Royal Theatre, in front of the White Tower. They are pictures stacked by Thessalonians at the stops and bus stations. Stop lying! Ask for a great apologies for the "museums" of Spirtzi for you, which we had cleaned out the Horseman, the seventy-year-old scandal, and we had announced three hundred new buses of anti-pollution technology. You go and buy more, and I'll say that because it's scandal. What are you doing? On the one hand, it afflicts the world and on the other directly commissions - toys with the CBS at the time OSTH had received work from CBS and was substantially charged. But I'll see you in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u118	Mr Colleagues, I would advise you not to be exposed because even today I see that you are repeating inaccurate information. There are obviously not only a hundred eighty buses in Thessaloniki at the moment. There's actually three hundred forty-five. It is a hundred and twenty-five in cooperation with the CCEE and another two hundred twenty by OSTH. You can also be informed by the employees better and you will see that in fact what you refer to according to the publications is untrue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u119	The out-of-court?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u120	We will also get to the out-of-court, because a formal announcement has been made by the workers that I will be tabling in the Minutes. Evidently, you ignore her, or you will deliberately not be mentioned. For five-and-a-half years, Mr President, I think that this is a shameful thing about what has happened to this organization, in fact you have not taken care of it, you have done nothing to renew the fleet of Thessaloniki and of course, but I shall refer only to Thessaloniki. The competition you referred to, Mr Colleague, did not be abolished by us as a government. He was effectively abolished by the Procedural Control Authority because it made a decision that I would say was the catapult according to that contest. So we know what we're talking about in this Chamber. Therefore, I would say that it is at least politically challenging to come here to move our fingers when indeed July 2019, to say it again, the Minister said that they did not move more than two hundred sixty. The exact number was two hundred thirteen. You can see the elements of the movement of those days. There were two hundred thirteen buses running when for the transport work of the co-chairman...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u121	So Karamanlis was wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u122	He said there's not more than two hundred sixty. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u123	Two hundred sixty or two hundred thirteen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u124	I think we're speaking Greek. Don't play with words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Comrade, don't have a conversation. The Minister must answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u126	I'm telling you this number. There were two hundred thirteen buses. This figure corresponds to about 40% of the transport project that should normally be in the co-chair, i.e. about five hundred buses, in order to carry out the right way. So let's go see what we've done since. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has put into I have informed you that at the moment - I will repeat it once again - there are, in fact, three hundred and forty-five buses, a hundred and twenty-five with the partnership we have made with the CBELs and two hundred and twenty buses of the organisation itself. A total of three hundred forty-five. We also facilitated the registration of buses in order to make this partnership with the CBS as a whole. And I would also remind you, Mr. Colleague, that PNP was issued on August 22, 2020, which enables OSTH through very rapid procedures to proceed with some maintenance programs to get more buses on the streets of Thessaloniki. The Municipality of Thessaloniki also bought fifty buses in collaboration with the organisation. I should like to inform you that the first five have been received today and at the rate that has been taken in the next month will be taken over by all these buses. So you realise that the government has taken all steps, both direct and indirect, in order to restore the mess, unfortunately, which had been ahead of us. And let me tell you something else, Mr President. You're constantly invoking the workers. I will submit in the minutes the press release that the Workers' Union of the Hellenic Urban Transport Organization has taken out, which I am reading. "To today's meeting, assessing the positive response of the co-competent ministries and the OSH administration to address our demands, but also the possibility offered to OSH to raise the transport in our city, taking seriously into account the prevailing trend due to COVID -19 and the suffering, we are in fact suspending the strike mobilisations." So it acknowledges that the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency, which you, too, call for, is actually doing a good job from the present administration in cooperation with the Ministry, and that is why he suspended his strikes when - you remember very well - you not only had the legal approval of the unhealthy allowance and the allowance for responsibility, not only did you not sign the collective labour contract, but you were actually holding about two thousand workers hostages. I therefore put it to the Minutes and refer to my dentistry with details of what I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u128	It's really challenging and you don't cause me, you're causing the public opinion of Thessaloniki with the tombstone, with the cancellation of the ICU, where he waited for a city to be held up and you've removed 50 million cigarettes from merchants, craftsmen, small and medium-sized ones who expected the city to move. They will be heard by the Prime Minister from people who are not members of the SYRIZA, who are addressing your party, Mr Kefaliannis, in the New Democracy. But here we are not talking about parties, we are talking about the daily lives of the citizens. Mr. Kefaliannis, I will speak to you with the words of the late Leonidas Kyrkos when he was addressing the then Minister for Transport - the first Minister - and he said to him: 'Do you want, Minister, to solve the problem of transport and urban transport?' He was talking about Athens. "Get off the ministerial mercenaries and wait for the stop." Wait as much as the photo is said here, which is an undisputed witness and is the telematic network you have here and which I have shown you. The telematic network says twenty-two minutes, twenty-six minutes, twenty-eight minutes. It says so, but eventually it can be forty, forty-five and fifty minutes late. Wait at the stop, push with the world. Now we have a coronary. You may be trampled, pushed, and the anger and indignation you will feel will turn into a political force and political will to solve the problem. This is something we call it independently and above and beyond party positions and predictions and concerns the daily lives of the citizens. You do not accept the extrajudicial when it says a hundred seventy buses. Who's telling you? Did you ask the Thessaloniki MPs? Did they tell you that there were three hundred and twenty-five buses around? Thessalonians live in another town? They don't live in their town of Thessaloniki? Aren't they waiting at Columbus stop, Vasiliki Theatre stop, White Tower stop, Egnatia stop 76? They don't live in their town? Do they live in another town? You don't believe us, but believe the local leaves. Believe the workers' out-of-court and get into a process. I now come to the second part of the scandal, an endless party, this game with the CCT. At first, the CASE gave OSTH a job. He put him and went 50 kilometers out of the city in Halkidona, Kuffalia, in Mechanonia with 1 euro. And after bankrupt OSTH, he then bought shares to move directly, buy buses that you set a limit of EUR 15,000 for 15 and 20 years when these buses on the market for 12 years buy them at EUR 6,000. Who cares about this story, Minister? The whole city, the whole of Thessaloniki is talking about open scandals. They say the mice fall like a hail. What exactly is going on, Minister? Minister, I would like to ask you, Kefaliannis personally. I don't know what Karamanlis thinks. But I think that the publications are enough. There's what we described as an open scandal. Why did you abolish the international competition for the purchase of 705 anti-pollutant buses to buy diesel cars? Is that the respect of Mr. Mitsotakis? Is that his environmental mark? Buying old used for Thessaloniki? Why? Thessaloniki, what is it? "Stage of firing, boiling foreign lanterns"? Is that Thessaloniki to have used buses? Isn't it worth the place, Thessaloniki, the second in the population, having the anti-pollution technology? And you abolished it. And I would like to ask Mr Kefaliannis, whom I appreciate for his decency and attitude and parliamentary morality. This particular contest that you abolished provided that the game done with spare parts and service stops. Whoever the broker would have undertaken for twelve years to give and pay for the spare parts - you understand what I'm saying to you - and the service. If he were Kefaliannis to answer, would he say yes or no about the spare parts and the service he will take over for twelve years? What is the public interest? Come and join forces for our Thessaloniki. He can't stand it! Near unemployment, near tolerance, near poverty, near the closed ICU, near the 50 million lost by the city, can't stand any more mockery, other lies! Fake the words the big ones! Rise and shine! The Prime Minister's going upstairs. Hear, hear his own neo-democrats who are in chambers, unions, clubs, the trade union. His own, not the symbols. Forget them. I invite you to meet and respond to your responsibility to rule and solve problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I am going to refer to something you have said that does not relate to stricto sensu of this question in the postponed IBM. I think that neither you nor I can personally go beyond the expert's instructions whether some events at some very large events can be carried out or not. And I think that is the least we can do in order to safeguard public health. So you realise that at least the reference to the postponed IBM and, of course, what this may have to do with the economic impact on the city is at least unfortunate. Because we do not decide what we want, but on the basis of what needs to be done for public health. And at least let us agree in this Chamber and let us agree that the management of the whole pandemic situation, at least in the first few months, has been impeccable, and that is why our country has had all these congratulations worldwide. However, I should like to refer to this question, and I would like to come back to this Chamber, because I really want to have a real dialogue. I think, unfortunately, that you are once again reaming a few things, which are the result of what you say from publications or some images. I never said that the image in the coup d'état - and not just in the coup d'état - is what we would like to see in Athens. I never said we lived in a paradise in terms of transport. However, at least let us agree in this Chamber that we are talking about a situation of everyday life that is dealt with by direct and medium-term action, many times and long-term because the procedures, with regard to competitions and because of legal complications, are quite long-term. Unfortunately, I will tell you again - and I think at least that we will agree - that the buses that we received in July 2019 were not what should be in the Co-chair, in order to carry out the transport project. I'm saying this because we can't have a conversation here at the National Representation, as if suddenly we were in a political vacuum. You've been ruling for five and a half years. I'm really telling you, Mr. Comrade,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u131	Four and a half. Correct it in the press release, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u132	Four-and-a-half, we won't mess up there. So I tell you that for four and a half years, unfortunately, there has been no bus supply not only in Thessaloniki but also in Athens. The competition you once again invoke - I told you in my prototype - was not cancelled by the government. It was annulled by the pre-trial inspection authority. I'll tell you one more time. I would also like to tell you that in our intentions - and we have said so repeatedly and publicly - it is, of course, the invitation to tender both in Athens and Thessaloniki for anti-pollution buses. This concerns electric buses, buses with natural gas and diesel of new technology. This will also concern Athens and Thessaloniki, so that there is no doubt that we are not taking care of Thessaloniki. Very soon I will tell you once again, Mr Colleague, what we have done in the past few months to get to more buses than we have received. I will say once again that it is not the number for which we are satisfied, but it is certainly much better than the previous year. A total of thirty lines were awarded, six plus twenty-five. The first six lines of the CBS assigned were by your own government. You realize it's a mechanism that started by you. We extended it just to cover the gap. We're actually talking about a hundred twenty-five buses plus twenty-five backups. At the moment it is a hundred and twenty-five buses that mainly cover the regional lines of Thessaloniki Prefecture and in practice do transport work. It is the fifty buses in cooperation with the Municipality of Thessaloniki, which, as I said earlier today, were received the first five and by the end of the month, with a number of five to ten per week, will complete this receipt. So, in essence, fifty more buses are entering the battle of everyday life. The leasing competition involving a hundred eighty buses has been opened and the first buses will be received in the week. So you realize that these too will enter the battle of everyday life. And you know very well that when we talk about leasing, all that about maintenance, about spare parts is not on the contractor. So you realise that there is a pioneering solution to cover the mid-term until there is the big anti-pollutant bus competition you have referred to. There will be an extra auction of two hundred seventy-seven buses right through leasing over the period 2021-2022, which will also fill these gaps. But let me tell you something else, Mr President. We have ensured in the mid-term and a funding that was enough - I would say - great in order for the Agency to be able to function. In particular, for the five-month period August-December 2019, 48m euros were allocated and at the same time frozen 21m euros debts, which were actually created between August 2017 and July 2019 by the previous administration of Mr Papapas and by the government of course of SYRIZA. A further sum of 48 million was approved for 2020 and also 55 million for the financing of buses. I could also refer to a number of measures taken with regard to staff, which, at least, I think you had in mind, the kindness of refusing to do so because measures have indeed been taken and the protection of staff, but they are also constantly being made in relation to people entering the buses.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u133	Are you going to multiply the routes?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u134	Mr Colleagues, from the treatments I have been telling you, we will actually reach the number of five hundred buses, so that these images do not exist or, at least, they are very limited. Indeed, within the next thirty - forty-five days we will reach the number of five hundred buses and be back in this Chamber and see who is right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u135	I'd like to invite you to join Thessaloniki and wait for the stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u136	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-08-31-S1-commons.u138	With the consent of this House at 21.03 p.m., we shall have the sitting on Wednesday 2 September 2020 at 9.00 p.m. on parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
