ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval of 5-3-2020, the minutes of its PRIB meetings, Thursday 5 March 2020 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘State Development Perspective of Local Government Bodies, Arrangements on Responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior and other Provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in two days' time, on Sunday 8 March, the International Women's Day is celebrated and the Conference of Presidents decided that a report should be made at the beginning of today's plenary sitting by the President and colleagues appointed as Parliamentary Representatives with five minutes' speaking time. I shall start by saying this on behalf of the Bureau. The House today honors Women's Day. I would like, having the honour of presiding today, to allow me to say a few words without abuse of your time. First of all, I should like to begin by recalling the full title of the United Nations Day: 'Global Day for Women's Rights and World Peace', because more than a century after women's first moves for their rights, the world-wide image, but also at European level, strongly recalls the need to continue these struggles that began at the time, both for their rights and for the World Peace. I would therefore like us not to confine ourselves to wishing and celebrating the struggles of women, but to state in every way our active participation in the struggles that continue from the same need and, unfortunately, in many cases with the same applicants as a century ago. These world days personally feel a little like an alibi for us to be exhausted in fine words without actions. Indeed, I will say again, I have a question and also anger about what will be said by all the leaders and not at the celebration of the World Day of Refugees on 20 June. I assume that the solidarity and sensitivity of all will be expressed on that day, except that thousands of'sleepers' will not be able to listen to them in the depths of the Mediterranean. In any case, through our institutional role and because it is certain that all colleagues will express their respect for women's rights, for the part of our responsibility, for women's rights, for honouring women's Day every day, when we legislate not to impose social exclusion on sex, for guaranteeing women equal pay and employment, for defending the family,force and for childhood, and for ensuring respect for modern women in everyday life, for shielding every woman from harassment and targeting only because she is a woman. In conclusion, I think that it should be given special treatment and not just abstract condemnation of the phenomenon of increasing violent crimes against women who are growing every day, not only in our country, but throughout the Western world as well. Ladies and gentlemen, these basic assumptions must be in our daily thoughts in our legislative work. It is the least we can contribute to women's struggles for their rights and for the World Peace. Thank you very much. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will immediately give the floor to our first speaker, who is Mrs Zoe Raptis, from the New Democracy Member of the 2nd North Athens Sector for five minutes, with the relative tolerance. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the Women's Day next Sunday, I would like to wish for many years for all women and the opportunity to express especially thank you to the women of Evros, in particular, from my heart, for you who offer and for what you offer to our children, our husbands, our brothers and sisters who are at this moment in our homeland. And I would like to thank you very much, because you have taken our children under your wings and take care of them as if they were your children. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the first thing we honor on the face of a woman is the pillar of the family, the pillar of an institution that, even if it is heard in the ears of some as anachronistic, remains for us at the highest social priority. The mother who raised her children in the crisis, the companion who is a source of inspiration and accompaniment to the often crushing human relations daily life of biopoliticism, she always remains the foundation of human society, the basis for building human relations and emotions and the source of solidarity and love. But the woman doesn't just want her for the hard part. We also want it to take the lead in the development of our country and to take the lead on an equal footing. With one word, equal opportunities and equal pay for the same job. Because there cannot be growth if women are not fully involved, if they are unable to unfold their talents in each sector and if they are not paid on the same terms for the same work they provide. It is a timely demand that the state give them the opportunity to be productive in the economy, to participate equally in the provision of knowledge and to make careers without at the same time depriving them of the opportunity to create a family. After all, the growth that we want to build is based on technology, innovation and entrepreneurship. And I believe that all three privileged areas now are suitable for women, because they change the traditional pattern of employment and enable women to combine the family with careers, work with home, its participation in production with the rearing of their children. I am proud that our Government recently passed important provisions in support of women carrying children in the world and provided a birth allowance of EUR 2 000 for every child born in the country, exempting new mothers from unnecessary bureaucracy, and I am equally proud of the reduction of insurance contributions to 50% for new mothers returning to work after birth, a provision that we included in the recent insurance bill to facilitate the reintegration of women into the labour market. So the women's constant struggle for us is to restore their place in society, in the economy, in research and in knowledge. We are now mature as a society to proceed with further specialised interventions on equal access for women to the labour market and its participation in social actions, but also to encourage women to take part in positions of political responsibility and representation, both at national, European, regional and local levels. At a time when our place leaves us behind the crisis and acts of rebirth, it is an accident that the composition of this House includes only sixty-two women in total of three hundred Members, low compared to other European parliaments. But it is gratifying that, on a proposal from our resignation, we have recently, by a broader majority, voted for the highest state post as a woman for the President of the Hellenic Republic. With the election of Mrs Sakellaropou, we have shown in practice that at the beginning of the 3rd century of the 21st century Greece takes the place it deserves, marking the turn in Greece tomorrow. So in the belief that in the near future with specific policies we will enable more women to become involved in key parliamentary, administrative, judicial, self-government, but also government positions. I wish all Greek women many years and dynamically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. The floor is now held for five minutes by Ms Xinoyannakopoulou on behalf of SYRIZA, MP of the 2nd North Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the World Women's Day is not a formal anniversary. It is a day of memory, of appreciation, of awakening and, above all, it is a day of vindication, because in our time it becomes new meaning and poses new critical risks. It is a day of memory and we must remember its social, racing dimension, honor the millions of women who fought, were persecuted, imprisoned for human and social emancipation. We must remember the textile workers in New York, who on March 8, 1857 came to a mass strike, demanding better wages and human conditions of work and their protest then drowned in blood, sophrazettes and their struggle for vote and civil rights, the feminist movement and the struggle for personal emancipation and liberation. From Clara Chetkin and Alexandra Koladi, Margaret Fuller, Simon de Bovour, Oriana Falachi and Barbara Kasl, to Callerroe Parren, Elektra Apostle and Amalia Fleming, women struggling in revolutionary and social movements, trade unions and politics, women who broke stereotypes and centuries old and were distinguished in politics, science, art and creation. Women's equality, gender equality was from the outset and remains a matter of democracy and social liberation, an integral part of the major revolutions and social movements of the 19th and 20th century. And from this step I think we should also honour all the women elected MPs from the first moment the vote and the right to elect women in our country. However, it is the Day of Gynaecism and an opportunity to consider the steps taken, the conquests and the problems and the new claims, from women's active participation in the National Resistance, the right to vote in 1952, the historical change of family law in 1983 and the guarantee of equality expressly in the Constitution, to the recent laws of the SYRIZA government. I would like here to refer to the increased quotas in the lists in the parliamentary, regional and municipal elections, the restoration of social and labour rights, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, namely the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and domestic violence. Progress in the issues of equality and the integration of women into production and social function reflects the level of each country and society. I would also like to say here, as Mrs Raptis mentioned, that it is an important step that the new President of the Republic, Mrs Sakellaropoulou, will be sworn next week, which shows, of course, an additional step in the conquest, but shows the maturity of the Greek society, which accepts not only this but also this development in the supreme state. At the same time, however, we also need to look at matters of regression. We must see that international reality today is not encouraging on equality issues. We see that in half the world women continue to face oppression, hunger, poverty, wars, refugee, exploitation, modern trafficking slavery. In many countries of the Middle East, Asia and Africa, conquests disappear because of the prevalence of fundamentalist forces and perceptions. The prevalence of neoliberalism, the economic crisis in America and in Europe has had a direct impact on women, as regards unemployment, poverty, the weakening of the social state. Long-term conquests and achievements of the feminist movement are being destroyed and threatened with abolition. It is indicative that in recent years in Europe, women's unemployment, their digital lag, and violence against them have increased particularly. One out of three women in Europe over 15 years of age has suffered physical or sexual violence. It is characteristic that today, as always, women must respond to the multiple roles, that new consumer stereotypes be broken, and that is why the struggle for work, an equal pay, a modern strong social state and an equal representation in decision-making centres, is being made more topical today. With a sense of solidarity, therefore, our thoughts today are in all women of all ages, from every country, who give their collective and personal battle for life and dignity, for women who protest around the world, in the context of feminist strikes, for women who face wars, refugee and immigration. Women's Day is a day of democratic and social vigilance, a day when women together with men confirm our faith in peace and solidarity, equality, deepening democracy, social rights and social justice. Be well, for years, and have strength for the struggles.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, my colleague. Ms. Giannakopoulou, Member of the Change Movement in the Second Western Sector of Athens, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the International Women's Day is a day dedicated to women's struggles throughout the world for equality, for rights, for justice, for self-evidently, but not for us, the citizens of Europe, unfortunately still out of discussion in many corners of the earth in the 21st century. On 8 March our minds, our thoughts, our interest, our hearts turn to women of every age, every country, every standard of living, of social origin, education, religion or language, of sexual orientation, to those who are lacking rights, ever more often even in their own lives, just because of their sex. The International Women's Day is an opportunity every year to assess the position of women in society and to examine whether real gender equality exists in everyday life. The fight for effective participation and representation of women in all areas of social activity is part of our daily effort and it certainly does not end only in one day. We welcome and turn our actions on women, who are struggling every day to respond to their multiple roles, the mother, the worker, the housewife, the daughter, the grandmother, all the roles of women. We recognise and respect what they have made movements, organisations, scientists, individual citizens, men and women on gender equality. However, the truth is that we have not succeeded in completely eliminating inequalities. In the 1980s and the 1990s, the PASOK governments with legislative changes ensured equality between the sexes. They condemned the patriarchal family, the institution of the dowry, anachronistic institutions, and even the obligation of the woman to change her surname after marriage. Women workers have, for the first time, acquired equal treatment rights for men in employment, working conditions, professional development, wages, vocational guidance, training and social security. The rural women were given the opportunity to become members of cooperatives. A full and self-evident pension was introduced for the farmer. Childbirth allowance was granted for those insured in the OGA. No other European country at that time had a progressive institutional framework. Today, unfortunately, our country is taking the last position, with the last of Italy, on equal access to employment and working conditions. Finally, we have the second worst position in the European Union in representing women in the centres of political, economic and social decision making. The proposals of the Change Movement for equality and equality are clear. We must stand by the woman unemployed to find work, not only with development policies, but with specific and targeted incentives. We must stand by the woman working and mother. No tolerance to discrimination in workplaces, no tolerance to differentiated fees, no violation of mother's rights. Arrestment permits will not be left on paper, and when the woman returns, she will have to regain her post. No tolerance to sexual harassment at the workplace. To stand by the woman to attempt, to evolve, to have more and more women in developing businesses tomorrow. Let's stand by the mother working. No child outside nurseries and creative employment centres. To stand by the single parent families, but also to fully restore widow’s pensions. In recent years we have seen more and more cases of violence against women. Violence against women won't stop while we close our eyes and your mouths. We need strong voices and solidarity. Victimisation begins with silence, and silence is complicity. Ladies and gentlemen, the role of women has certainly been upgraded over the last few decades, but there are phenomena that we have to deal with. Women remain the target of a covert, but many times violent sexism. The highest unemployment rates of women and the lowest earnings of working women must be our top priority. Modern Greek woman has the right to equal treatment, equal treatment, work and recognition of her role and contribution to our society. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot separate the issue of women's rights from the major challenges that we face as a developed world and as Europeans. We must remain on the bright side of humanism and fair ideals. This is the only way for a society of equal opportunities and equal rights for all of us. Let us wake up and stay out of peace. Let us continue our efforts with vision to create a better world for all of us, for us and for our children. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, my colleague. The floor is for five minutes by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. This year is a hundred and ten years since the establishment of March 8 as World Women’s Day by decision of the Second International Conference of Socialist Women. For the JRC this day is not an anniversary. It is part of the daily struggle that we give for the equality and emancipation of the woman in modern times. The JRC today strengthens efforts to prevent the working and unemployed woman from being reconciled with the pragmatic equal opportunities and equality in the working jungle, working hours and life tyres. Truly, what are the reasons why modern women experience old and new discrimination in work, social life, although modern scientific and technological development enables all and all with fewer hours of work and increases in wages with maternity protection measures? The causes are in the same system as you are projecting as a one-way system, the modern exploiting society where everything is subjected to the profits of business colleges, the ruthless capitalist competition. Is it possible to talk about minimum support and maternity protection measures without confronting the European Union and the flexible working relations it promotes? When all governments over time oppose the right to permanent and stable work, show as normal part-time and temporary work, one-month contracts or one-day contracts, how is maternity really being protected? This is why it is hypocritical that all urban governments and parties who have put their stamps on anti-popular, anti-lingual measures at the expense of the majority of women's labour. It is a challenge for political forces which managed the system against women of the working class and the people's strata to take the lead in rejuvenating the feminist movement. Any attempt to catch up on women's indignation in immortality for exploiting society can be seen as a cause of the low participation of women in so-called decision-making centres, meaning governmental, institutional and business administrations, as if their lives were improved by the emergence of women in ministerial positions. Isn't it not all the so-called left-wing or neoliberal governments who have maintained all the anti-government arsenal that generalizes elastic working relationships and deprives women of a series of licenses and allowances that they have maintained over time, for example, the unacceptable article in a '51 law excluding from the maternity leave and allowance for all women having under two hundred brands over the last two years? Today, thousands of women workers work without collective agreements and hunger wages with the sealing of the policy of all governments, while the abolition of Sunday's holiday breaks the lives of commercial workers, but also of self-employed women who are dragged into exhausting hours to get through. They are still borne by the cut-off costs of the state budget for social services and health and welfare infrastructures that turn the necessary medical, diagnostic, preventive tests, prenatal control, the procedure of medically assisted reproduction. But also the lack of state measures to prevent and protect women from the diversity of violence multiply the obstacles encountered in trying to keep a woman on her feet. Is the policy defended by all the urban political forces does not involve our country in the dangerous US, NATO, the European Union, by turning it into a magnet of attacks and into an imperialist attack on other peoples? Is it not the same policy that is responsible for converting our country into an infinite prison for thousands of refugees with children into the arms, who left the hell of the imperialist war to be found in the centers of hell on the Aegean islands or in mainland Greece and enclaved at the border, slavery of the traffickers, but also the pursuits of the governments, like Turkish? The JRC invites women to make use of the social and political experience gathered under modern conditions. The rapid development of science, technology, automation creates new deadlocks, but also presents new opportunities for the social position of women. These possibilities can be fruitful, if humanity is rid of the rocks of capitalist profit, capitalist exploitation and oppression. The participation of women today in the reconstructing of the movement in the struggle for social alliance can give oxygen of racing optimism to the working folk struggle, to form cracks on the wall that is uprooted by the modern capitalist society towards the peoples, women and men. That is why we call on women to strengthen the people's struggle, by choosing the struggle of life and demanding all their belongings and depriving them of governments and alliances of states such as the European Union, to revive their participation, to fight for the release of our country and neighbouring countries from Euro-Atlantic designs, isolated from the nationalist, racist poison against thousands of refugees and immigrants, women, men and children. This is the best way to honor women who, with their struggle and struggle, pushed the wheel of history forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ms. Athanasios, Member of the Greek Solution in the B2 Western Sector of Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the theories you are following us, we are here today to honor the woman, in the context of the world day dedicated to her. The woman should, of course, be honoured every day at any time, given her contribution to society, as a result of her multidimensional role, wife, partner, mother, female teacher, woman scientist and many other roles. They are so many roles for just one person and it is not only a few times that, in order to bring the best possible results for all, it neglects and forgets itself. Recent example is our women in Evros and our islands, Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos, Kastelorizo, all our islands, from the Aegean to the Ionian Sea. Today no one can question that many and important steps have been taken, at least in the Western world where the woman can combine into a wonderful balance of motherhood, career, social life. She feels more free, more confident of herself and her possibilities. However, substantial equality has not yet been achieved because of the stereotypes that are maintained. However, continuing socio-economic development and improving the position of women due to their entry into the labour market and to the state education policy which imposed compulsory education, led to improvements and a gradual reduction in the gap between the two sexes, as regards equality of educational opportunities between the sexes. The position of women in the labour market is particularly discussed within the framework of the European Union's policy on equal opportunities for men and women. As a member of the European Union, Greece has complied satisfactorily with the Community directives supporting equal treatment for men and women. These Directives concerned equal pay for equal work, equal access to employment, vocational training, employment conditions, occupational development and the gradual implementation of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security. In addition, the inequality in participation of women in the professions of a charitable nature tends to decline. In addition, today women are best represented in areas that were traditionally closed for them, such as the Presidency of the Hellenic Republic, the judiciary, the Diplomatic Body, the public administration, the police, the Army. However, there are still considerable differences in the professional structure between the two sexes, with the main features being the selective presence of women in certain professions only characterised as women's and their limited presence in position of high degrees of responsibility, the professional hierarchy, as well as in the academic area. The profession of university, for example, remains a male fortress to date, although the number of women has increased significantly. Finally, new types of family have emerged in recent years, beyond traditional nuclear. There are now many single - parent families created either by divorce, widow, or single mothers. Previously, the divorced woman or even worse the single mother was the bad example of a society with strict rules and absolute dividing lines between the "must" and the "non". Today, the mother who raises her children alone does not face outrages and coercion, at least in large cities, but is obliged to make a double effort to meet her role in which the time has loaded us with many obligations and the state must stand by her. Despite the significant improvements that have been achieved, our society is still called a men's society and maintains the woman in a less favourable position. In the Eastern world, women are even deprived of the right to education, of expression of opinion. He's considered a child of a lower god. In the Western world and in our country, as women traditionally are the foundation stone of the family, the neck on which family members are supported in recent years, due to economic developments, the woman has also faced the "carer or family" dilemma. I am talking about a dilemma, because her absence from the everyday life of her children made her feel unresponsive to her role as a mother. In conclusion, the woman today, the modern woman remains a strong fighter, is trained, claims very dynamically equal treatment, rights to economic autonomy and professional development. She zealously and responsibly serves her goals. His Greek wife today, with her multiple roles, social, domestic, professional, scientific, or nuclear family, with one or more children, independent social standing, enjoys appreciation, respect, support from all of us and as a state we must make it easier in every way. What we are, what we've done we owed to a woman, the mother who brought us to the world. Let us give her the respect she deserves for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, my colleague. I will now give the scholar to the MP of Mera25, Kritonas - Ilia Arseni, MP of the B2 West Athens Sector. Come on, Mr. Comrade, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Merra25 can dare and have a man talk about women, because we are a party that has a majority of women. We have five out of nine Members of Parliament: the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakorafa, Angeliki Adamopoulou, Maria Apatzides, Constantina Adamou, who has recently given birth and Fotini Bakadima, who is the secretary of our parliamentary group. We have women and we have roles in women. However, because there is a mobilization at Mera 25 pre-conferences, I am here in Athens and I will speak on the subject. But I don't dare talk about women. I will become the voice of women, reading a text from feminist collectiveism 'No Tolerance', in the context of the principles set by the Chilean movement - which coordinates the feminist struggle - for the strike on 8 March 2020. "The feminist strike is a classic, trans-feminist, lesbian, anti-racist, disobedience, political undisciplined, anti-suppressive, pluralist to eradicate prisons, intergenerational, migration, internationalist and anti-fascist. The source of our oppression is double: patriarchy and capitalism. We are women and females of the working class, workers, unemployed, precarious workers. We know that the workplace is a place of sexism, racial exploitation, harassment and abuse. We know that as long as we are immigrant, we are the victims of dual exploitation by the bosses and the state. We know that as long as we are tranquil and disabled, we will have double experience of racism and social exclusion in the workplace if we are able to find a job. It is this space that elasticates our existences, crushes our time, cancels our imagination, disputes our abilities on the basis of our gender. It irritates our cells, effectively abolishes the right to maternity, condemns us to black, mispaid, uninsured work. Against capitalist violence, the dissolution of the social state and the suffocating capital, they exploit our homes and land and threaten our own lives. Contrary to artificial separation of productive and reproductive labour, the product of modernity and capitalism, which condemned women and feminities at home and unpaid work, to build patriarchal capitalism on our bodies. None of them alone against the bosses. The strike is migratory. Immigrants and refugees are currently the first objective of the attack on the capitalist ethnic-patriarchy. They are faced daily with the spectrum of racial violence. Prosecuted by countries with war, conflicts and poverty or even authoritarian regimes, most have experienced some form of racial abuse already by their countries of origin, whether it is abuse by their family environment, institutionalised or national forms of brutality, such as clitoritisation, forced marriages and the prohibitions of independent life. They risk on their journey to Europe to hurry, to beat, to find them drowned in the Aegean or frozen in Evros because of Europe's risen political fortress. Survivors are stacked in terrible conditions in camps concentration of the Greek state, injured, alienated, exposed to new dangers. For these women even a simple visit to the toilet is a risk. At the same time, they are systematically offended by prisoners and fascists. They live in prison without any protection, without access to specialised services, with reduced access to asylum and with their right to move to countries that wish to be cancelled. We do not forget our sisters who remain behind the borders and accept the violence of the Greek state, those who have been detained at the pool of Petros Rallie, those who have been banned again by the violent evacuations of police occupations, immigrant people who have lived and worked in Greece for years and who have not been granted their rights, who have seen their children arrive eighteen years old, without papers and those who have cleaned up the homes of all, the mafias' workshops, the people who needed them, the cultured the fields with a thousand per hour, with 3 euros per hour, without papers "and if you want, so much the boss to the Albanians, if you say not to get Bulgarians", those who have been raped and abused in the houses of the northern suburbs, those who are not allowed to say the name of the boss "Yes mama" are made by them, and who have been subjected to the children of the islands of Philis. For our grandmothers, for our mothers, for our sisters, for you, for me. Why don't we forget the grand struggles of revolutionary and militant feminism in every era and in every length and width of the anti-Semitism response to the conquests of women's and LGBTK independence. Because we want to draw from memory inspired and inspired by the struggles of the weavings and the workers, the women of the '40s, the feminists of the '60s and '80s, because we carry them within us today, because we are digging to find our silent history, the leading role of women in historical, social movements, the care that made the world go back into homes, over pots and children's heads."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Before I give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Kontozamanis, who has asked for the floor for a minute to speak about today's festive day for the woman, I would like to be allowed to welcome and thank representatives from various associations of women's organisations who are attending today's sitting from the southern theories of Parliament. Thank you very much for your presence here today. [[Applause]] Come on, Minister, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the government, we wish many years for all women. Today our hearts, our thoughts, our interest in all women, all over the world, every age, regardless of living standards, education or religion. We welcome and point out our actions to all women, who are struggling every day in order to respond to the multiple roles they have. The fight for equal participation of women in every area of economic and social activity is a constant effort and certainly not exhausted in one day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. Before we close this process, you will allow me to mention that here, in the Temple of Parliament, democracy among three hundred MPs, women are sixty-five, men are thirty-five, in the number of officials in Parliament, 58% are women and 42% are men, and that of officials, 45% are women and 55% are men. So I would like to say here that it is up to us, in the hands of all women at first, to convince women to participate in the commons, but to fight more to take greater and more responsibility. Thank you very much for your participation in this process. Next year to be good and celebrate again. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary report on the International Women's Day has been completed. Before entering the debate on the topical and urgent questions, I have the honour of announcing to the House the news bulletin on Monday, 9 March 2020. For the time economy it will be submitted to the minutes of today's sitting. [[The above-mentioned topical and urgent question form is filed in the Minutes and reads as follows:]] ‘A. QUESTIONS OF THE First Circle (Article 130 paragraphs). 2 and 3 and 132 paragraph. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1. Under No 554/28-2-2020, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readstopoulou to the Foreign Minister, on "What are the measures taken by the Government to respect the Prespecies Agreement?". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 558/3-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Giannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "The Situation in Professional Lyceum (EPAAL)". B. QUESTIONS second-round QUESTIONS (Article 130 paragraphs). 2 and 3 and 132 paragraph. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, Member of the Radical Left, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, on "Much delays in the reopening of the port department of Akritas Fotitis".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House: "We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions in the context of parliamentary scrutiny on Friday, March 6, 2020, that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The question under number 565/25-2-2020, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos, or by number 549/25/22020, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, by number 555/28-220 and by number 564/3-20, is to be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Kissos Kontozamanis, or by number 551/26-2-2020, a timely question which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr. The first question will be discussed under No 555/28-2-2020 of the first cycle of the MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Supplying and degrading of the National Center for Habitation (CDE)". Mr. Polakis, you have two minutes to develop your question. I would ask you a lot, because we have exceeded time and because there is a timely question, to try to be on our limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, we will try it without always getting it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u18	As soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Undersecretary, you know that. Last year with a large programme of five and a half thousands of people, which was practically a copy of the programme of the four thousand first as Ministry of Health, we implemented in 2017 for the health sector, with a call of five and a half thousand people for young scientists, from which they finally got more than three thousand eight hundred people in various ministries, in various decentralised structures, the structures of the Ministry of Health were strengthened with seven hundred and twelve people, young scientists from 23 to 29 years old. From the EEA POP, from the EEA, from the central services of the UFO, from the IFO, from the CFO, from the CFO, from the National Central Procurement Authority, the OKANA, the CFO, Psychiatric Departments and the EKAB, and a very large number, sixty-six people, sent the National Haemorrority Centre, a National Center, which we strengthened in previous years. At the moment, they were serving a hundred and seventy people, of whom thirty - five were only permanent staff, the others were seconded by other public sectors, sixty - six were from this OAED programme, and twenty - nine were from the precedent of the four thousand for whom you also gave one year of extension to their term of office and are spending the third to fourth year. In this particular programme, which was even more targeted in relation to specialities, the sixty-six are twenty-five people who are employees of the Nurse branch, five computers and twenty-five of specialist medical laboratories, who were trained and greatly strengthened the work of the CSR, right now, a few days ago, they are starting and being made redundant through a neoliberal obsession that we cannot go on with this programme essentially and not just for the CSR, but for all the ministries. On the one hand, you're screaming for Brain Drain. On the other hand, this is done with the programme that we have retained and - be careful - it is not a 'Take 500 euros and shut up' programme, it is a pay programme that would take if it were appointed as a permanent civil servant, it may have a difference of EUR 4-5. In fact, these people helped the CSR, which develops and operates, concentrates serological and molecular control throughout the country, builds stable hemorrhages. We did two big contests for that - I'll tell them in my dentistry - and right now they're leaving. Will you give them an extension or will you not give them an extension? Secondly, I know that you have been asked by the CSR administration for eight months to meet them. You don't meet them, you haven't set up a new administration. Now the coroner's here. Do you have any planning in relation to the development of the National Blood Center? These are first things and I'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u20	Thank you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Polakis, first of all, I have met with Mrs Matsuka, the President of the National Center for Hurricane. Now, as far as your question is concerned, in fact, the sixty-six workers in the CSCE are employed in an OSCE programme. It's a program, ending their contracts. They're not fired, they're out of contracts. You knew when you set up this program and welcome it, as it happened everywhere. And indeed, these programme people have supported health structures in previous years, and that is why we have fought to keep the four thousand more than a year in the National Health System, because there was money in this programme, because we need them and have acquired experience. Unfortunately, the other programmes cannot be continued and the contracts for these workers expired several times and end in March and cannot be continued. It is a temporary solution, you knew, and we all want permanent solutions, not only in the CSCE, but also in all the structures of the health system. The National Center for Blood is surely affected by such a development, but it is not as serious as you say it and I will explain why. For our part, we are looking at concrete solutions in order to strengthen the National Center for Blood and to be able to develop the plan, which your government has started to implement, designed in terms of blood concentration and is a good plan, and we must develop it. I have to say at this point that it was right to implement Law 3402/2005 following a European Directive that we proceeded with the operation of a centralised blood donation system. Indeed, it is a project that is moving in the right direction and the efforts made by the administration of the CSR to implement this plan and, in particular, to organise all the procedures for collecting and handling blood are to date incomplete, we need to do more. Already, we have progressed, in essence, the four blood donation centers have become two at the National Center of Haemodiasm and at AHEPA in Thessaloniki, and this project is under way and implemented. Let me remind you that in March 2019 you launched as the head of the Ministry of Health the blood processing room at the National Center for Blood and then a lot of people from these sixty-six who were in the OAED programs, this staff were not exploited at the National Center for Hepatitism, divided into hospital donations, and later returned to the CSCE, in order to develop this project. This project is still at the beginning and we will not have any major problems in the functioning of the CSR. But - and I conclude, Madam President - this project really needs to go ahead. I shall reply to the other questions that you have raised in the face of a coronary. The single information system in the EESC has not yet been completed. We have made progress in the effective connection of private clinics with the CSR, which has to be done and we will develop the functioning of, of course, stable blood donations outside hospitals. That is the plan, that is what international reality shows, that is what we need to do. Today, there is only one room in Egaleo and, of course, this whole plan to implement it, such as the conversion of donors of the congenital environment into systematic volunteer donors, the full blood coverage of all the sufferers from Mediterranean anemia, because it is a major issue for our fellow citizens to do with the blood, because you know very well that the amount of blood that is intended for these patients has been reduced by the imports from the Swiss Red Cross and all these loose ends, we intend to start them by supporting the administration and this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u23	Your answer didn't cover me, Minister. I see that you recognise the right direction in which we have led to the development of the EMS by developing stable haematopoietic sites, by centralising serological and molecular control, by centralising and centralising the manufacture and distribution of blood derivatives that are already piloted by three large hospitals in Attica, which returns to them blood and high-quality and uniform-quality derivatives, and by practically in full development, this will also involve about three hundred thousand units of blood collected in the Lefkade. Without people, there's no work to do, Mr. Contozamani. The machines don't work alone, and the administrations are not working alone. It has a hundred and seventy - six - six - year - old population, that is to say it is reduced by one - three, and there are all new children. And they've learned and worked, and they're technicians too, they're computers for the system you're saying the interface of digitals could and can help. Listen. The 'don't have any money' is a political decision. To catch Mr. Brutsi, because we have found that in the OAED every end of the year, having paid everything, from allowances, permits, what he must give, he is left with 500,000,000 million. These 500,000,000 million will have to do hai-hoi, Stournaras? We have taken 60 from there, and we have set up the four thousand programme and then the other ones for this programme. A political decision is to put this heading into the budget of 1920 and 21, as you put it for the four thousand, as we had put it three years over and over and over again. Well, yeah, it was a temporary solution at that time, because we were in the memoranda and we had the issue of the recruitment restriction, and these programmes were one way to strengthen the system. You're sending out seven hundred people from the health system. Just because I'm saying it a lot more straighter, the four thousand are gathered. They're sixty-seven people in every hospital. If they leave all over the place, the system will fall apart. While these poor guys are ten in the EEA, two in the EEAS at Argos, one in the CEFH, the most focused are those in the EMS. And they have no opportunity to make such a massive reaction, otherwise you would be giving them an extension. But here, they'll pay for it. I'll say a word about the coronary, because it's a serious matter, and I'll close with it. I saw an old student at the school today, Elias Mosilos - you will remember him, Mr. Akuppi, he was older than us - who is a professor of health finances and "weep" his words on whether the coronary is transmitted from the transmission. Mercy! Mercy! From the Interior CCU started, in PASOK he went and now he's afraid the priests won't tell him a word. Get out as ETA and say clearly and especially now that the cases are spread, after the bad and wrong handling that took place in Patras. And I stop here, I said it yesterday. In other words, we cannot stop the concentrations, and when the other one goes and drinks from the same spoon, it's not transmitted because it's sanctified. That's Christianism. Didn't Mrs. Kerameau let you say that? Get ETA to make a serious announcement about this thing to stop. Because with the wrong manipulations that took place, we have an increase in cases. Let's see what happens today. At last, get serious at this level. It is not a question of the priests being tickled at us. Other congregations did this. They're not here consecrated. At last put the EEA. I think I saw a announcement somewhere, but this announcement has not been played, because at first they were on the phones and said that 'no, it is not broadcast and it does not look'. This is where we stop gatherings. We, as SYRIZA, postponed a series of major events that gather people from all over Greece, from the Youth Conference to the Central Reconstruction Commission, precisely so that we do not have the issue of co-existence from different regions and then there is some evolution. And you don't dare have the EHR say that "yes, it's transmitted by the spoon that another has used" and "psyromaemia, stop". We stop the carnival and we cannot stop the gatherings in the congregations! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Polakis, let me begin by saying that the efforts that have to do with blood and blood donations in the country do not fit in with political controversy and despicability. We're on the same side. We will continue the project that you have started, but we appreciate the situations from a different perspective. Indeed, as I said in my prototype, these people were to be involved in the full development of this project, which is still at the outset. I'm sure he's in need of the National Center of Blood. We will try to find solutions, whether with subsidiary staff - of course also with the proclamation of permanent posts - or with other procedures. One more thing about the haemorrhage and the coronary. We all know that the presence of our fellow citizens has been reduced in the blood establishments in hospitals, because there is fear of the coronary. And we're already working together with local government to find places outside hospitals, so we can turn them into hemorrhaging areas. This will also help to develop the plan for the development of hemorrhaging centres outside the blood supply units. As regards the coronary and what you mentioned, I will tell you that the situation is estimated daily. We are in constant contact with both the World Health Organisation and the European Centre for Infections, the European Commission. Today he becomes a special council of health ministers. You are aware of the systems in place, such as early warning systems and various incidents. There's operational readiness. There's a concrete plan. We follow the experts' instructions. I do not think there have been any omissions, as you have said, or wrong acts concerning the management of incidents in Patras. We all see what is happening globally with the coronary, and we all have to deal with it together, and of course we have to do it successfully, because - as it turns out - we have now entered a second stage in dealing with the incident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. We move to the fourth under number 564/3.3.2020 on a second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creating a model of the Urban Press Health Center in Illion". Will the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, answer the question. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, the Municipality of Ilios has proposed the operation of a model civil-military health centre on its limits. This is, in fact, a structure aimed at operating at night hours. One goal is the decongestion of the large hospitals in the area, which are located, is the truth, quite away from the city of Ilio. It will provide 24-hour care and is based on the model of such structures that already exist. The Standard Peristeri Health Center, which has been in operation since 2011, has been established with the assistance of the Centre for Disease Prevention of CEDEFOP and is a model and modern urban-type primary care unit. In fact, what we are asking you to do is to commit to supporting this demand by the municipality and to stand by the state through the CCI for the creation of a model Urban Press Health Center in Ilioon. It is a fair request from the Municipality of Ilio and we believe that it will serve other municipalities bordering Illion, but they are long away from the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, let me start with two points. Firstly, there are no urban health centres anymore. The term ‘urgent type’ has been repealed. Secondly, there is nowhere to be expected to involve the former ERIC, at the moment of EIA, National Public Health Agency. Also, in the Municipality of Ilio, it operates a health center from seven in the morning to seven in the afternoon, and of course there are more than ten health structures in the western sector of Athens, which serve the world. It is true that in order to be able to dismantle hospitals and provide essential health services for citizens, we need to develop an integrated primary health care network. As I said, in the regional unity of the West Athens area there are at present twelve primary health care structures. The Health Center in Ilion is managed by a staff of thirty-two people and the Health Centre of Ilion provides several services, as well as a radiodiagnostic department. These are as far as the health center of the Municipality of Ilios, a public primary health care structure. But we're not standing here. We recognise the right of every citizen to receive high-level health services and of course essential primary health care services. That is why we want to develop a strong primary care structure, with an emphasis on services and not on buildings, with a focus on quality rather than quantity. In this context, of course, we appreciate the proposals made by all actors and, in particular, local authorities. Let me say that we are listening to the urban health centre, and of course we are obliged to consider it. Because, as I have said, it does not matter the number of buildings, but the quality and quantity of services provided. And we will look at it in the context of the reorganisation of the country's health map, which we will soon be able to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u30	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Actually, the terms may change, but the substance is left, Mr. Undersecretary. In the pigeon today, an urban type health centre operates twenty-four hours a day. The request, that is, is clear. We want the Health Center in Illion to acquire a corresponding structure to that of Peristeri. We are talking about a municipality that can functionally exceed forty to eighty thousand people. It is a significant number of people in Athens and close to it there are other municipalities, also remote from such structures. So we would like to see a commitment from you on when this map is going to be restructured. What's she predicting? What are the first thoughts? Can you make an indicative commitment that in Illion you will proceed to the operation of the centre on a 24-hour basis? Well, let's know where we're headed. We need to know, in other words, whether we need to increase the social pressure on the government or whether we agree, so just sit down and discuss the details.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u33	Mr Arseni, it's not a question of pressure on the government. The government must design health services and provide equal access to every citizen. So the planning and implementation of policies that contribute to this is the task of the political leadership and we are working in this direction. Allow me to say that your question is not about the functioning of the health centre 24 hours ago, but about the creation of a Civil Press Centre in the Municipality of Ilio. I told you that the proposals are being examined. There is an extensive network of primary health care structures in the wider area. And of course, we are looking not only at Ilioon, but also in various areas of Athens, in the context of the reorganisation of the primary care of health, the operation of a 24-hour basis for specific health centres, so that there is unfettered public access and the incidents can be dealt with at primary level, so that our fellow citizens are not forced to offer the emergency hospitals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. We continue with our second question under number 562/3-2020, on the second question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Assessment of produced water at the KELP for green watering needs in western Athens". The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyiannis. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, the Tritsi Park thing is well known. There are important problems over there with the waterproofing of the lakes. In fact, we have at the moment a hole bucket that leaves too much water. However, the estimates are that even when this issue is solved - in one lake corrections had been made over recent years, it remains to be done in the rest - there will continue to be some need for water mainly in the first few years. So, what has been proposed by many bodies, started by IGME, from HSDAP itself and academic institutions, is the use of recycled water. We currently have Psythtalia, where a higher treatment can be carried out, and this water, in too much purity, is poured into the sea. It is a question of whether this water could be turned to Poikilo Mount, a term that really needs to be supported and greened, become a forest, a lung, not only of recreation, but also of health for the citizens of Athens and especially of the pollution of western Athens, but also of the Tritsi Park and the strengthening of green parks in the municipalities of western Athens. The reason is self-evident. This is a major environmental degradation, which this region in fact needs as a compensatory measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u37	Mr Colleagues, because you are asking me directly whether recycled water can be used in the essence of treated recycled water by the solution processing centre, I will answer that it is not possible and I will explain why. The supply of the Park Tritsis, in essence, through this procedure has been found to be unjustified for two basic reasons. Firstly, it is energetic and, secondly, it is also costly. And since I am addressing a man with environmental sensitivities, you realise that going to a solution which, in fact, will probably cause more problems than he may solve, I think it is not appropriate to go through with this process. Of course, I repeat, apart from the environmental part, there is also economic. In other words, to go to this process, to send water to Psythtalia, to process it and turn it back, it has been decided that it also has a financial burden that may not cover any other needs. Therefore, for reasons that, perhaps, I will explain to you in my dentistry, some alternative proposals have been put on the table and I am very unrelenting to discuss them with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u39	It's time for the State Secretary. Why would he answer his dentistry? I think it's a cadet to answer in full so that I can be placed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u40	I think he answered you the way he wanted to answer you, Mr. Comrade. You can say what you want and I think he has the right to say what he wants. I don't think I can tell him how to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u41	I get it. I am simply asking that, as a Member, I ask the Chair to ask the ministers to answer completely, because otherwise the right to secondary education is cancelled. In any case, Mr. Undersecretary, you say this is costly. I think what you are referring to above is an earlier proposal for water recycling in the park, which would in fact have an extra cost. I think that transport of water, obviously has some energy costs, you are right, but on the other hand, the environmental and economic cost of dumping clean, almost water coming out of biological cleansing in Psytalia is multiple. We were the other day, and members of the government, were also members of the relevant UN agencies, of the UN programmes, of water and of the Mediterranean, and we were explaining how Greece should finally get into the question of water recycling. It is something, if you like, a bureaucratic involvement that exists in this matter, which must be resolved. In fact, there were members of your Government who committed themselves to unblocking this issue from the Ministry of the Environment. So I want to say that we need to take a serious look at the reuse of Psytalia's waters. It is a great waste environmentally to be discarded at sea, rather than to be used against other waters that can remain on the watercourse, not to use the waters of the EEAS, etc. I mean, not to use the waters coming from Morno to water gardens and parks, at an increased cost, anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. You have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, in my prototype I was clear, because you specifically asked me about the use of the recycled waters of Psytalia, and I told you that it was considered improper. Obviously it could be done, but it is considered inappropriate for the two main reasons I have explained before. In other words, she is too expensive and there is an excessive environmental cost, and that is why she has been excluded. In fact, this issue has already been made public and made available to both the Parliament and the relevant departments of the EPC. I should like to inform you about what you mentioned that some alternatives have indeed been examined already since 2018 between the Ministry of Interior and EYDAP S.A. and it was decided then that Tritsis Park could be irrigated by reuse water derived from an adjacent network of impending impurities, which of course can be processed within a closed facility within the park. This water was even considered suitable for irrigation and according to the measurements made then I can tell you, Mr President, that this water was also marginally drinking. But we are talking about irrigation, so we could proceed with this. Of course, since this solution had been proposed, I would like to inform you that there have been some reactions from municipal bodies from the adjacent municipalities, i.e. from the Municipality of Ilios and Saints Anargyra. These reactions, in our opinion, were also due to a misinformation on this method, which is, in fact, a recycling method. I think we can agree on that. If we can go to a recycling method that is not going to be so energy-efficient and cost-effective, I think we should consider it. You should also be aware, Mr Colleague, that ECHR, typically, does not deal with irrigation issues. However, it could be considered by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, of course, in cooperation and at the request of a competent municipal or state authority, the possibility of responding to the request for water from properly treated sewage, i.e. recycled water, for reuse. I would also like to inform you that our Ministry, once again in cooperation with the EEAS, has gone on to studies dealing with the best possible irrigation of all these sites you mentioned, namely the various green areas of Western Attica. And of course we will be able to consider how in cooperation - and I repeat - we will be able to go to a test proposal, namely the treatment of these waters, in fact in local processing centres, which - as I have said before - have the least possible environmental and cost and, of course, the least cost to the Greek taxpayer. So we can look at these solutions. The issue of Psythtalia - which you mentioned in your prototype too - has been ruled out for the reasons I mentioned. The other issues, however, if local bodies are to be better informed, I think we are open to discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, too, Minister. We will discuss the third with number 563/3-2020 a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on "Improve the connection between Ilio and the metro". The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Ioannis Kefaloniannis will respond again. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. And, Minister, I would ask you very much - if you can - to respond to your prototype, so that I too can use my dentistry and have a dialogue, because that is the nature and specificity of the timely questions. The issue of poor transport in the municipality of Ilios and in the municipalities of western Athens has been discussed and the Minister's presence has been discussed. It's still getting worse. It has also been mentioned by the Minister that there is a problem with the lack of availability of buses. The point is, at the moment, we have a metro line that goes up to Anthupoli. And it could very easily solve the problem in other areas too by launching lines of express linking the town centers through Thebes to the Anthuboli station. This is a case that could certainly touch the Municipality of Ilios, but it can also serve the Agios Anargyros a little below and Petroupoli. You have been submitted by the Municipality of Ilios with concrete proposals. And the question is whether you could approve the express line. I understand that this may mean a restructure of the lines in the municipality. And the municipality is willing to discuss it. We also lack a timetable for what will happen with the extension of subway 2. While the Minister made a commitment in 2020 that the extension of line 4 - line 2 at very low cost, around EUR 300 million, will be able to provide a direct link between these municipalities, mainly Ilios and Saints Anargyra and Petropolis, with the metro that will bring them very quickly to the Constitution - has not been announced, and is not the timeline known to me. And he's not in the city's knowledge either. So we want your commitment to the timeline line 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u47	Mr Colleague, I would like to tell you that the information you have on the subject of connecting bus lines with fixed track stations, i.e. by metro, is incomplete. And I say this because the connection between the Municipality of Ilio and those stations is quite frequent. And I'll give you some specific lines. The Municipality of Ilios is connected to Agios Antonios station and Anthoupolis station is located with six lines. Specifically: It is the trophy line 24 that connects Petroupoli - Illion and Agios Antonios Station. Second line is the trolley 25 that connects St. Antonios - Illion - Cameroon. Third line is the 701 bus line connecting Cameroon - Ilion - Anthupoli Station. Fourth line is the 705 bus line connecting Cameroon - Illion - St. Anargyro Square - Anthoupolis Station. Fifth line is the 706 bus line connecting St. Antonios - Ilioon station through the highway "Andreas Papandreou". Sixth line is the 747 bus line connecting Petroupoli - Panorama - Anthoupolis station. Indeed, these lines, Mr Colleague, especially in peak hours, have a frequency of 10 to twenty minutes. So you realise that the OSCE's transport planning has indeed taken into account all the functional elements of the lines, namely the route, routes, vehicles, passenger traffic, has taken into account the need for a rapid connection between the inhabitants of these areas, namely Petroupoli, Ilios, Saints Anargyra and Kamateros with the metro network. It has taken into account the possibility of covering the existing journeys from the existing trolleybus and bus network. Of course, the availability of resources to drivers and OSH vehicles, as well as the need to rationalise scheduled routes, has been taken seriously. We therefore consider, Mr President, that the six existing routes are fully served by the passenger audience of the municipalities mentioned by you in your prototype, and that is why there is no need for an additional line to enter, especially since there is a closeness as far as the resources are concerned, both in buses and in OSH drivers. With regard to your second question regarding the timetable for metro line 2 to Illion, I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the "ATITIC METRO S.A." has recently completed the preliminary topographic studies and surveys on this extension, geotechnical and geophysical research, the studies on the design and installation of stations. In fact, the placement study was completed in January that passed us a month and a half ago. In fact, I should like to inform you that the "ATIO MEDITER S.A." programmes within the year, that is to say, in 2020, to proceed with the tendering of the final project study, with a timetable by autumn, so that the study maturity necessary for the construction tender can be made in the next 2021-2027 period, of course, provided that the necessary financial resources are guaranteed. I therefore think, Mr President, that both questions - so as not to complain - have been answered in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Minister. You'll see that that's how we can have a dialogue and get to fertile conclusions. You have mentioned too many lines and indeed there are. And some are important. What the question is expressly asking - I have not read all the points, but you have it in front of you - is an express line. What does that mean? It means it will be a bus line with three stops - as it will be, and when it becomes the subway - that will replace the subway until it is done. That's in practice. It will have a dense transport, that is, five to seven minutes. We are talking at the moment about delays in existing lines of thirty minutes or more. So we're talking about a special line. That means, yes, that others will be reorganised in order to get this surplus. But reorganization will work to create a line as if the subway already exists, with the three stops that will exist when the subway is made. So it's a very smart proposal, in my opinion, from the Municipality of Ilio, which you deserve to examine. And it can also be a model to tackle the huge transport problem in many areas. We need, in other words, where there is no connection to a reliable medium such as metro, but we only have a bus connection - which, unfortunately, at this juncture, is too unreliable - to create specific lines that will provide a connection as if someone were using the metro. That can give-- you know what? - and a dignity to the inhabitants of western Athens. A dignity that they can access public transport, go to their work, go to their university, go to do their jobs and anything else they need. I think these areas are worth it, which - if you like - have a sense of leaving the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u50	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u51	Mr Colleague, I have explained to you the reasons why any OSH planning has been made and the linking up of the metro stations with these bus lines. And I think at least we can agree in this Chamber that six bus lines and trolleybus lines connecting Saint Antonio and Anthony stations are sufficient. What you mentioned to us, in fact, in an ideal availability of resources and vehicles from the specific agencies of the OSH and SSH could be done. Unfortunately, I would like to tell you - and I have told you many times in this Chamber - that the past five years have led us to a tragic situation in terms of urban transport. And at the moment we are trying to take some action from within, so that all these regions, which enjoyed this transport project, would not stay behind. So to debate at the moment, and indeed by letters of 2011 and 2013, that is, ten and seven years ago, when strangely available was much greater than what we now have with the vehicles - because, I repeat, no maintenance programme has been made, no new vehicle purchase programme has been made since the last five years - you realise that it is utopian. We are at least trying to keep to the level of the transport project and, above all, to those areas where it really needs it, which they have enjoyed over the years. Of course, when the needs can be met with the purchase, or new buses planned by the Ministry, or trolleybuses, then you realize that an extra line like the one you say can be covered. But, I repeat, there are six lines right now, buses and trolleys covering these areas. And at least, according to and with the information we have on passenger traffic, there is no need for further reinforcement of that line. Nevertheless, the organization, the OSCE, in cooperation with OSCE and OSCE, is in collaboration with the local communities in the event that there is an additional need for this line to be covered as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, too. We continue with the first with the number 566/3-2020 topical question of the second question of the Hercules MP of the Movement of Change Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let the period of inertia be terminated for the construction of the Magistrate of Heraklion". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Ioannis Kefaloniannis. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the building of a new modern judiciary in Heraklion is imperative. It's lost valuable time. You know that for some years now the Court of Appeal of Eastern Crete and the trials, at whatever level you consider, have been operating in inappropriate rooms, whether rented or the old Judge of Heraklion, which, in other words, we have asked for as long as the courts continue to operate there. Legal world, local authorities, courts workers, but also all citizens want us to take initiatives to recover lost time, which is important, almost five years, nothing has happened, and to proceed with a specific timetable with the procedures for building the judiciary. My question to the Minister of Justice revealed another flaw in the previous government in October. It was not requested by the Ministry of Justice by letter to the FAO, signed by Mr. Tsiaras, until then, to proceed with the Ministry of Infrastructure in the procedure provided for. That was in the tenth month by Mr. Chiara. I would therefore like to know today whether the FIFG has responded to this letter from the Minister. In other words, if he has given a free concession to the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that you can start the procedures and what exactly you have planned to recover the lost time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u54	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u55	Mr Colleague, I will agree on the need to build a new judiciary in fact in Heraklion. I do not only as your fellow Cretan, but also as a lawyer, because I have participated in too many trials in this building, and I know very well the situation that exists and which is experienced by the workers there as well as by judges and judges, but also by fellow lawyers, especially the citizens, who want to serve. And unfortunately, you were also right to say that last five years the government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks made fun of the Cretan people and the Hercules that they supposedly went ahead with the matter of the judiciary, as was unfortunately also a mock for the issues of all the infrastructures of Crete, whether it was on the northern road or other development issues that were all supposedly, it was timeliness and, in fact, nothing happened. And I think we'll all agree that we all want to end this story. So let me tell you that in relation to your first question, that is to say, the granting of the property by the Court of Justice Fund in fact has been completed in the sense that there is a understanding of the leadership of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. In fact, by decision of the Governing Board of the TAFEC, he asked the Ministry of Infrastructure for an additional economic study in order to document the viability of the project in which this study of course our Ministry responded, proceeded with its preparation, and it would be sent to both the TAFO and the Special Secretariat of the PPP, which will, in fact, undertake the promotion of the project's proposal to join the list of proposed partnerships for approval by the Interministerial Committee of the PPP. So steps have been taken with regard to the previous debate you had here in Parliament with Mr Chiara. I repeat, this has actually been the case. I think in the next few weeks we will also have the typical part that will be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u56	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 22 October 2019, the Minister of Justice Mr Tsiaras, addressed to the FAO, asks for the decision of the relevant management body of the fund to provide for the free allocation of the full right to use the property in order for the Ministry to proceed with the proceedings. I think that, by far, the FIFG is asking for what it needs to ask, what you have said has been asked for. In any case, however, and since, in any event, for your part to be notified of any system of implementation, concession or other, an economic study is needed, and this is particularly relevant to the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Justice, the FIFG has already had to adopt this decision. I think it is a further impediment, which has nothing to do with the law and its predictions. It's probably from the top, like I told you before, but it's probably not. There may be other disagreements. In any case, since you completed the procedure, I would say that you should contact the Minister of Justice in the context of the meeting, which I have also seen with the corresponding debate we have had with the Minister of Justice, and ask Mr Tsiara for the speed of the process. To make a reminder to the FAO of this letter, which I will present in the Minutes, in order to come to your knowledge through this path because it had not been notified to you. To resolve an issue we criticised the previous government for the five years. That's how the ball's been for five years, you know. One came the alpha service of the Ministry and asked for something that was either impossible to come out or which did not need and was impeding the whole process, or in other cases with justifications which had no basis for seriousness, I would say, and also documentation. In any case, Minister, I invite you to take the initiative and activate this invitation of the Minister of Justice to the FYROM, to quickly have his decision, and of course your timetable must be clearer. So when do you anticipate an invitation? What is the timetable for concluding the contract between the Ministry of Infrastructure and the contracting company? And with what system - of course, first of all - do you think to build it? The public-private partnership, as announced, what characteristics will it have in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u59	Mr Colleague, I understand your anxiety and repeat the anxiety is common when it comes to speeding up the process for the construction of the new Grand Justice of Heraklion. You referred to a document by the Minister of Justice actually dated 22 October. And of course you know very well that there has also been an answer, as I mentioned in my prology, and, in fact, a relatively direct decision by the board of directors of the FAO, that is on 31 October, which actually asked for this extra economic study, precisely to proceed with the process. I repeat that we have moved on and too quickly as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, because you are aware of the principles of November until today, which has been completed, is at least a year for public sector data. What I can tell you is that, in fact, as I have said in my prototype, all the procedures of a technical nature, the conditions, have been completed in order to proceed with the project, in order to join as PPP, I repeat that this will be the process that will proceed. There are some procedural issues that I mentioned to you in order to present the proposal for the inclusion of the project in the list of proposed partnerships. From there on I think the steps are very specific. So what you and all of us need to keep is that, as a reference point, the notice of the international competition for this project to be concluded as PPP and with the private partnership body will come out. And what I can tell you with certainty is that within the first half of 2021 the project will be started, not to say earlier. In order not to look too optimistic, I will tell you that within the first half of 2021 the project will have begun. I would also like to assure you and other colleagues who I see in the Chamber that I, too, will, of course, be watching, in cooperation with the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, on the course of the work, so that this work, for which there is a huge need in Crete as a whole, has begun at the beginning of next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Now we move on to the second with number 565/3-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Consumer practices of the Ministry of Finance". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we have a problem that I believe was created because there were no clear rules on the state's side on how and judicial decisions will be implemented and retroactive money paid back to beneficiaries, but on the way in which it then acted in order to collect what the public is entitled to. In particular, 2013 was paid retroactively for 2010, 2011 and 2012. It would obviously have been logical to allocate this money retrospectively in 2010, 2011 and 2012, and of course due to the fact that the Ministry, the state, was the post-dated payment of beneficiaries, to facilitate their taxation, without fines, surcharges, penalties, etc. Instead, the Treasury comes with which he expresses itself and I refer at the same time to the independent authority and intervenes, so that there is no limitation for a given year. What's he doing? Illegally, it unlawfully makes taxpayers' amending statements without their signature and without their own knowledge. In other words, one morning the taxpayers who took retrospectively came out of surprise because they saw extra taxes being charged on the basis of an amendment which they had never submitted. I also mentioned this during the debate, days ago, of the bill to which you brought an amendment to an extension, and that is a positive action on your part, but we need to see with what concrete steps this disparity has been, to have a fair tax on people without fines and surcharges and, of course, to pay in a reasonable time. I would remind you that there are cases where these citizens have been taxed as a result of documents during the relevant period. There is a percentage that has been made in statements and we must also see how we treat this fairly. And there is also the right of limitation, regardless of the energy they have made. The courts will justify them. There's no way. However, we also have the stated will not to resort to and not to tax. Your colleagues, Mr Minister, and I am in a position to know this - want to tax them fairly and do not take advantage of the possibility that they may have through a judicial decision to do so. I have specific proposals in my second speech. But I want to know what your will is. You have referred more generally to your previous position, but we want you to be more specific in order to find a solution together, which we will naturally support, since it has the specific features that I have mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, there is a given problem that this government has recognised and expressed its willingness to give a permanent and fair solution. I am referring to a large proportion of retroactive pensions received in 2013 by the beneficiaries, but they did not include these amounts in their tax declaration. This has led to the adoption of legal acts for the administrative determination of tax in these cases, in accordance with the existing legislation. Let me make it clear here that the tax administration for these transactions did not have to call on the taxpayer to express any views, because we are not talking about tax corrections issued after full tax control. In this case, however, the tax was determined on the basis of data that had come to the attention of the AIA through the records of pension pay attestations sent by the social security institutions. The tax administration therefore issued these administrative determinations legally and in accordance with Article 32(2) of the Tax Code. I would also like to tell you that, in accordance with the case law of the Council of State, the exercise of the public's competence to impose a tax within the prescribed period of limitation is not an abusive exercise of the State's right, even if long time has passed since the end of the use to which it relates and does not constitute an infringement of the principles of good administration. I am referring to the figures. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In no case, then, has there been arbitrary intervention, as you mentioned in your question, and most of all, a rather arbitrary formulation and submission of a allegedly false amending statement by the TAXIS in ignorance of the taxpayer, as you are wrongly claiming. In addition, not only is this impossible but also incomprehensible and because you are an experienced colleague, I would like to believe that this reference has been made either by mistake or by misinformation. In fact, problems were created in the determination and allocation of the tax, but also in the need to correct the clearing notes for cases where tax determinations were issued, despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in statements submitted. Of course, taxpayers have the right to appeal, but it is for us that the state should give a comprehensive solution. That is why we have extended the amendment that we tabled to the insurance bill by 29 May on the final date for which these debts become due. And this is the first step in giving the solution by means of legislation, the content of which I shall refer to in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it would be preferable to consume the energy that you have, the knowledge and the ability - the proven one - to resolve the problem and not to justify unjustified ones. So here, because you say bad information, I do have information in many respects and I will submit only one in the Minutes of the House: the letter from Apostle Kostopoulos to the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Apostle Kostopoulos, as you know, was a colleague, a member of the New Democracy, an economist and a former director of the Ministry of Finance. If you want me to testify to you by Giannopoulos, I have dozens of letters. They are senior officials of the Ministry of Finance, people who have demonstrated that they served the public interest and in no way want to mislead nor avoid fair taxation and they are called in writing, despite the fact that there is a limitation for 2010, 2011, 2012. For what you said about the insurance funds, in fact the insurance funds make the distribution - and I have the documents here - in the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, while the Ministry of Finance in 2013. Why that difference? If we followed, then, and considered the distribution in 2010, 2011, 2012, as the insurance funds do, there was a limitation in 2019 for these years. However, I do not ask for the limitations, nor do I ask them for the limitations. They are talking about the mistake, the disorder, which is due to the Ministry of Finance and the bad coordination or the oligopoly - let us not be ashamed to say it now. It should have been checked, in the classic concept of control, that they have been asked to apologise and make a decision, a control sheet, to have been served. None of this happened. They did the easy method of amending, which is not altering. Amendment is when you amend something you have submitted. This is an additional taxpayer's statement. A further statement I know that the taxpayer can do only himself, I don't know if the ADP official or the electronic operator can do it. So we must not spend more time on what has happened, because it has no basis to stand up to what has happened. In our time from now on, let us see how we will give a solution and, of course, the solution is to overturn and cancel all the irregular procedures that have been carried out, to delete additional taxes, fines, etc., to disclose the amounts, as must be taxed and, of course, to make new tax clearances, on the basis of these new acts. Those who have already paid the tax should also be included - it is fair - and of course the anti-constitutional provision that the House has voted on on on 12 December 2019 with Law 466/2019 - to correct it. The tax provisions apply from the date of deposit, but they do not have retroactive effect that this provision you brought and voted on at the time. What do you want to do, cause thousands of trials, with people who will seek to cancel this anti-constitutional provision? From now on, you need to take care, because we will have this problem next year, on how to tax them in a constitutional and fair way and on the incomes mentioned in the year that is being recorded at the end of 2020 and, of course, on the part of those responsible for arbitrary and abusive practices. I therefore believe that you will be able to give a fair solution in this way. I continue to insist that you are in this direction. Your obligation is, of course, to say that what has been done with public services and I do not want you to say negatively, but your obligation is also to go ahead with a fair solution that we expect and which, as I say to you, we will welcome and vote if there is one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u66	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u67	Mr Colleague, as I have said, the Ministry of Finance will take a legislative initiative within the next few days to resolve the problem with retroactive pension amounts, for which pensioners were asked to pay tax. I am referring to a large proportion of retroactive pensions received in 2013 by the beneficiaries, but they did not include those amounts in their tax declaration, resulting in a tax and some tax determinations issued, despite the fact that these incomes had been included by the taxpayers in the declarations submitted. Our aim, as I said, is to provide a rational and fair solution and the amendment we tabled to extend until 29 May the time limit which these debts become due, so as to enable the tax administration to take corrective action to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed on the use to which they are actually referred. The legislation, which will be submitted in the following days, adds a new Article 63B of the Code on Tax Procedures entitled ‘Closing or amending an act establishing a tax and a fine’. In accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, the tax administration is now able, either at the request of the taxpayer or at home, to cancel or amend the act of direct administrative, estimated or corrective determination of a tax or a fine issued by 1-1-2020, if there is a manifest case of total or partial lack of tax liability, numerical or computational error or lack of competence of the institution which issued the act. In this way, there will be corrective intervention and the problems that you have raised in your question will be solved. And all this, of course, without removing the right of the taxpayer to exercise the right to appeal, in accordance with Article 63 of the Code of Taxation. At the same time, the relationship between the new regulation that we are promoting and the appeal, as well as legal action, will be clearly defined so that there is no confusion between legal aid and the provision of legal protection for the taxpayer. In particular, the new special administrative procedure shall not suspend the time limit and shall not prevent the application of the appeal or legal action, but shall not, vice versa, bring an action for appeal or the pending proceedings of the taxpayer in the special administrative procedure. Those new provisions will also include a transitional arrangement for the immediate identification and for tax or fine-fixing operations issued in 2019, for which there is a need for revocation. In fact, it is foreseen that if no procedural or judicial action has been brought by the taxpayer by the date of entry into force of the new provisions, the taxpayer may request, at his request, the annulment or amendment of the act, to be submitted until 31-5-2020. If an action has been brought without the deadline for its examination, such an action shall be taken as an application by the taxpayer for the annulment or amendment of the act, shall be forwarded to the competent authority and shall be considered as such. In the event of express or implied rejection of the request for cancellation or modification, the taxpayer shall have the right to appeal for full control of the act or examination of the original appeal. In this way, the tax administration will be able to make a corrective action on the basis of the information to be provided to the competent DUs in order to ensure that the relevant amounts are taxed on the use in which they are actually raised and not on the whole in the year in which they were collected. Furthermore, the legislative arrangements that we are promoting will significantly reduce the increased increases imposed on pensioners who have been late in their first pension for their unreported retrospectives and will consider not to impose the relevant fines. Our will, based on the principles of rationality and social justice, is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too, Minister. We now move on to the third with number 559/3-2020 on the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The serious problems due to the subdelegation of the Heraklion Land Office". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the Loan Mortgage Office of Heraklion until its abolition, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4512/2018, operates in transition as Heraklion Land Office and is invited to serve the needs of a city of about two hundred thousand inhabitants without legal support. This results in the work of the legal control of incoming transactions being conducted remotely by the Arta and Chios Mortgages, without providing on-the-spot service for the citizens and without access to the physical file. If that's possible! The solution is referred to the ultimate future, since, for the establishment and operation of the Crete Land Office based in Heraklion and for the administration of its legal department, the abolition of the half-wage mortgage and the procedure for the AIP procedure should be followed. This creates unresolved problems in the operation of the paid mortgage with the delay in registration of acts, contracts, actions, legal decisions, applications for manifest error and much more. At the same time, the inhabitants of Heraklion and the property owners, who rightly ask the state to assume its responsibilities, suffer unreasonable suffering. They are consummated literally by dawns in the service to serve several times some of the passengers are not served due to the end of the time. In addition, the problem is dramatically exacerbated by the unjustified shortening of the deadline for correcting errors, inaccurate initial entries in the Register, which since 2026 had been determined, reduced by six years and transferred on 31 December 2020, which, of course, poses serious issues and poses a risk to citizens and even to a city with several problems, with implementing acts, fragmented legacy and much more. Also a serious issue are the paradoxes the owners are called upon to pay, which most of them are people. They are farmers, livestock farmers, pensioners, microprofessionals. It is clear that for the workers at the Heraklion Land Office, precisely because of this situation, a huge volume of work arises and, in conjunction with the suffocating time limits set in the deadline for the correction of initial records, this leads to work extermination in order to meet the citizens' demands. So we are asking you, Minister, what measures will you take to proceed immediately, now that the Heraklion Stock Exchange is staffed with all the necessary staff, with permanent working relations, in order to ensure its uninterrupted operation, while maintaining in force the deadline for correcting incorrect first registrations by 31 December 2026, and to reduce the misunderstandings that the owners and local government are required to pay. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. The Parental House of Heraklion, which comes under the Ministry of Justice, began to operate as a transitional building office after the completion of the real estate in the respective municipality, i.e. the Municipality of Heraklion. At the time when it began to function, the budgetary restrictions that were in place at the time for the wider public sector did not allow for what was done at other transitionally earlier real estate offices, to which lawyers had been hired with an unpaid mandate for legal support. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The then competent body "National Stock Exchange - Mapping Anonymous Company" had the opportunity and commissioned two external lawyers - members of the Heraklion Bar Association to support the real estate office for some time. That's what happened now. Now, by law of 2018, the CSR, which was a public limited company, was transformed into a “Greek Register” that is a legal entity governed by public law. The legal person governed by public law cannot legally renew that contract by which this object had been placed on external lawyers. While the public limited liability company could, the legal person cannot. What is provided for under today's legislation? That once the normal real estate offices are established, they will include positions of both engineers and lawyers of the IP, who will be recruited by existing legislation, i.e. either through the AACC or through mobility, secondments and movements. This will be done when the transitional real estate office is converted into final. Until then, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for its staff, which still includes the Transitional Lander Offices as essentially mortgages of the former system. What has been done by the institution, by the Hellenic Register, to deal with the problem as far as possible? In agreement with the head of Heraklion's Land Office, with which there is excellent cooperation, we agreed to provide online services by two experienced lawyers from the body, who are serving at the Arta and Chios Land Offices. This is done on the basis of scanned documents, not by the physical presence of documents. The documents remain in Heraklion. In this way, to some extent, these problems are being dealt with. It is surely not the best service possible, but on the other hand there is a service, of course, with great efforts from all interested parties and the staff of the office. I note admirably that, at the moment in Heraklion, nine officials are serving against sixteen organic posts. This procedure therefore provides for a certain degree of service. It is not the best, but we must remember that we are gradually going through digital services in the register. In the first half of 2020, a number of digital services will be put into practice, so somehow we also need to get used to the use of the Internet to deal with our affairs. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u72	Mr Synthrakis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, your answer is no different from the one it sent - I assume you have it in mind - the Director General of the Hellenic Stock Exchange Mr. Kotsolis in reply on 31 January 2020 to the letter of the Heraklion Bar Association for the legal support of the Heraklion Treasury. In fact, I'll testify to it in the Minutes. The reply by Mr Kotsolis - and I think your answer, since it is in line with the Director-General's answer - reveals the size of the problem, a problem with political dimensions, because we have now entered into regularity, you say that - and that was imposed, it was not possible to inherit and dispense with the service of the lawyers' mortgage with an order of rent, as has happened in other mortgages - you said - for the legal support needs of Mrs Kopakas, a mortgage guardian and head of the Land Office. The governments of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA's previous one tell us that we are out of the memorials and that we are in regularity. Is it normal, not to have the Heraklion Mortgage, a city of two hundred thousand inhabitants, for such a mass of work? Is it normal that the establishment of a Land Office in Heraklion, as provided for by the Law in Articles 1 and 15, has not, in fact, been decided by the law in accordance with paragraph 2 in connection with the development of the realisation and the number of acts admittedly huge? If I am wrong and the law does not provide for it - but I understand that - you have nothing but to change the law. It's too easy. After all, the governments for flea jump - forgive me for the phrase - make changes, bring amendments, etc. The question, however, is why you don't do it or why you didn't do it. You do not, because that is costly because of the financial circumstances. It presupposes an internal agency, legal, engineer, administrative and other staff and much more for which the government is not prepared to implement for the well-known budgetary reasons. The shortening of the deadline by six years why did you do it? What's the point? You have to give us an answer here. Just to finish an hour ago, so you won't proceed with the establishment of the real estate office. Have you considered what huge consequences this will have for the citizens, but also for the public itself, with so many loose ends, implementing acts, fragmented legacy, geometric changes, so that citizens can proceed to the purchase of immovable real estate, due to red loans and since the generalisation of first home auctions begins in May? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mrs Copaka can do her job well conscientiously - I am sure of that - but she also raises the cross of the testimony. The law firm has made a lawyer available to help her. It's not true what you're saying. He's a lawyer who helps Mrs. Copaca. What will he say that the Greek Stock Exchange has not been able to renew the lawyers' contracts for legal support of the mortgage office on property matters? On the contrary, I would say, in exceptional circumstances of unreasonable discomfort for the citizens, and in order not to resort to the unjustified shortening of the deadline for correcting errors and inaccurateness, by reducing it by six years, you should have taken care to implement the law establishing the real estate office. In our view, it can be done. Why don't you do it? For budgetary reasons. So here's what the political problem is. It is a political choice both from the previous and current government. It is not enough for the unbelievable suffering of the citizens, for workers to be exterminated from the amount of work they are responsible for, taxes, paradoxes, carpets, tight hugs of workers in the anti-population policy of all governments, that is to say, the financial consequences. Is it a solution for distance processing the legal control of incoming acts by lawyers from Arta and Chios, for the fourth city of the country, and without even having the file before them and monitoring only online? These things can't be done. Neither do you - I think - believe it or the Director-General of the Hellenic Stock Exchange, as is apparent from the answer letter to the Bar Association. What are you going to do about the immediate application of the law establishing a real estate office? Until the implementation of the establishment - and without delay - what measures will you take to staff the real estate office with all the necessary staff with a permanent employment relationship, to maintain in force the deadline for correcting incorrect initial documents at 31-12-2006 and to reduce the infringements paid by owners and OTAs? That is what we want the answer so that they can be resolved immediately now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u74	The State Secretary, Dimitris Economou, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. The exit from the memorials and the return to normality are not made with a switch, nor is there the possibility of being automatically returned to 2009. Returning to normality is a process that lasts. We came out of the memorials, but with budgetary problems, with debts, with a number of difficulties, which cannot be dealt with within one day, neither within a month nor within one year. Obviously there has been a significant improvement over the last eight months in many of the problems that existed before, but we still have a road ahead of us. We can't solve everything by magic in one day. To go back to the issue of remote access to documents, it is not a terrible process. It's common now, the use of the computer to access documents, which have been scanned and you can see. Obviously it would be better if we could have contact with the natural object, perhaps, although slowly overtaken anyway, but the substance of the procedure can be achieved. You see the documents, you can actually do your job and they do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u76	After four, five months.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u77	At the expense of employees, employees, efforts and the chief, but work is done. From there on, why is there the wording that the institution in the National Register could not be hired? Because it is forbidden by the current legal regime. The anonymous company could have done it and did it before. Since 2018, who has become a legal person governed by public law, he has no right to do so. He can't do it illegally. So we necessarily have to wait for the establishment of the normal real estate office. When will she be? We could bring a law, as you nicely said, that it will be founded in two months or even in one day or even eight months. That's not the point. The question is that it can really be established at a practical level. With previous legislation, all the land registers in the country should have been established by the end of 2019. They were founded - if I remember correctly - two or three. The rest were not founded. Why? For several reasons, there had not been any necessary preparation. The transfer from a mortgage to a normal real estate office requires huge preparation at various levels and cannot be done simply by a provision of law. There must have been the real conditions for this migration. The real conditions aren't there yet. With today's legislation the time limit for the completion of all real estate offices is the end of 2022, if I remember correctly. By then we'll have done it. They have already started to become several real estate offices in the past few months. There will be more in 2020. Not all will be done in 2022, of course. That's the ultimate limit. Inside that we're trying to be the Herculious Office. But as long as it's humanly strong. There's nothing more to be done. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, allow me to continue for another minute. As far as the 2026 deadline is concerned, I would remind you that the corresponding deadlines had been extended several times in the past. With the continuous extensions, we'll never have a register. In the areas already completed, the objections have been finalised, the ceremonial records have been finalised, and there we have one - at least in the first phase - integrated register. We cannot wait until 2026 in the rest of the area. 2020 - at the end of this year - which we have set as a limit, we think it is realistic and necessary to have a single deadline for the whole country. Why? For reasons of legal certainty, the legal effects of the operation of the register should be universally applied. So we cannot wait until 2026 to have areas that do not have a register. As far as the fee paid is concerned, it is the same charge that previously provided for and paid to the mortgages. The same goes on now. Let us not forget that the register also has costs and is a self-financed body. In addition, citizens, on an individual basis, and as a whole, have a huge benefit from the operation of the Register, which obviously outweighs the cost of the paradox - unpleasant, of course. It's all good to be free, but compared to what the Dreambook offers, I think it's not comparable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u78	We continue with the fourth under the number 551/26-2-2020 current question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Disfession and Sale of the Public Gas Company S.A. (PES)’. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. The PPA Group has a decisive position in the Greek energy market. It is the country's largest gas supplier, serving power plants, large industrial customers and households. It also controls the retail gas network, i.e. the Attica, Thessaloniki and TENS operators and 30% through the “FISIKON”, mainly in the Attica region, as well as the FISIKON automotive plants. The PPA provides gas from international pipelines through connections with Turkey to the Evros Gardens with a provider of ‘BOTAS’ and with Bulgaria in Sidirokastro, with a GAZPROM supplier. It is also procured through Rethymnasa from Algeria and SONATRACH. In the immediate future, it will also be possible to supply gas via the TAP pipeline, ‘SOCAR gas’ via Turkey, to supply or supply via the IGB interconnector with Bulgaria, as well as the FSRU, LNG in this case. In the ultimate future, gas can be supplied through the IGI Poseidon pipelines, gas-gased and connection to Italy and EastMed natural gas from Israel and Cyprus. The DEPA is profitable. At group level it had sales of 931 million in 2018 and 914 million in 2017 and profits of 110 million in 2018 from 44 million in 2017. However, the sales of IPCC - so reasonablely its market share - have decreased in recent years, due to an increase in LNG liquefied natural gas imports. Our questions here are as follows: Firstly, the issue of DEPA is above all geostrategic and energy security. Have you taken your measures before they were sold? The PPA has participated in national energy projects such as TAP, IGI with Italy, IGB with Bulgaria and EastMed. Will the projects continue to be sold, such as IGI and EastMed, or will they remain operational? Will the supply of LNG from Central Europe be launched through Alexandroupolis? Secondly, will the cost not be increased for industry, for electricity production and for households if private interests, monopolies, namely gas supplies and distribution, are involved? Finally, what guarantees are there to extend the retail network to the rest of Greece, like FISIKON? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u80	The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Gerasimos Thomas. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President, as well as Mr Villardo. First of all, I would like to mention that this debate is taking place at a particular moment, because 15 days ago the first phase of the tender for the privatisation of the "SEE Infrastructures" was completed, in which there was a great deal of investment participation, nine, which deserves our approach that the government creates infrastructure that is attractive to investors, who want to invest in the country and to develop the natural gas and electricity networks for other privatisations that I will speak later, and move forward with modernisation and energy security in the country. I will submit the WIDD press release with the companies that have expressed interest in the "DUMP S.A.". I would like to clarify how the ownership separation of the PCC has taken place before it is sold. The ownership separation of the distribution industry by the commercial sector has already been institutionalised by Law 4602/2019 by the previous government and our intervention with Law 4643/2019 improves this framework by addressing its weaknesses. The previous framework of legislation for the PPC in conjunction with the privatisation of the TESC created a vague investment environment and environment for issues that you are addressing. In the Member States of the European Union, transmission operators are under public control, while distribution networks and distribution network operators are under private sector control. The previous law provided that the ‘S.E.U. Infrastructures N.S.’ would stay with 14% in private and the rest in the public sector, i.e. distribution networks would remain in the public sector, which is different from what is happening in the rest of their countries. So we went ahead and cleared up the landscape, what needs to be left in the public sector stays in the public sector and what needs to go to the private sector goes to the private sector. So what do we do? The S.A. infrastructure project takes over all distribution networks. At the company "DEPA S.A." is transferred 100% of Attica S.A., 100% of the S.A., 51% of the Thessaly S.A., the international project sector you analysed, including the participations in IGI Poseidon, ICGB, the memorandums of cooperation that exist for Eastmed, all these international projects are entered into a separate company, which will remain in the Greek state, by transfer to a public body before privatization expires. And thirdly, there is the trade sector that is renamed the 'Trade-Commerce' and has the differentiation contracts and the PSC of Attica. So we see that what is now being sold is clearly the infrastructure, for which the separation and all the elements of valuation and evaluation will be carried out in the second stage. In the first phase, it became a mere manifestation of interest, based on the public information and the second phase, which will start with a later project, once the company's corporate transformation has been completed, so that the candidates can access the information material and legal certainty of the company before being sold. I would also like to say that it is right that what you said that the market share of DEPA was falling, but with the new administration it has already begun to recover its market share. The new administration has made good business decisions and one of the last ones - announced yesterday in a press release, which I will be tabling in the Minutes - managed to win an arbitration with the Turkish 'BOTAS' and, yesterday, over 200 million euros have been reintroduced into the ICAO funds, which will gradually be returned to consumers. Therefore, not only did it ensure the financial soundness of the company, but it increases the company's value with the business decisions it makes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Viliardos has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I will have to repeat the questions, because you have either not answered or perhaps I have not understood them, so I will simply repeat what I think you have not answered. The first was whether the supply of LNG from Central Europe will be launched through Alexandroupolis. I don't remember you answering. The second is whether the cost for the electricity industry and households will be increased and whether there will be monopolies, which we fear very much, as we see will be the case with other public companies. And thirdly, what guarantees are there for extending the retail network to the rest of Greece, like FISIKON. These were the previous questions to which I think you did not answer, but I may be wrong. I'm going to go on with my denology. Of course the question is timely and it was precisely because two weeks ago what you said happened. Here, if I understood well, in accordance with the latest laws of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy, PPA is divided as follows: to PPC Trade, as you said before, on the supply and marketing of natural gas and electricity, and also to FISIKON, plus the rights and obligations of connection to international gas supply infrastructure, IGB and FSRU. I think you didn't say that, but I'll fill it in. Secondly, it is the "Structural Infrastructure" which is managed by the distribution networks, and you have said so too. "Infrastructure" excludes international projects, is it not? And thirdly, the "DPA of International Works", which will include the participation of the PPA in the Poseidon pipelines, i.e. the connection with Italy IGI and Eastmed and the Greek-Bulgaria interconnector. I have some similar news, which I shall be tabling later in the Minutes, along with the others. The privatization of the DEPA group is at the forefront of the lenders from the past. An attempt has already been made to sell it in 2010, while the IPCC was finally sold in 2018 after the cancellation of its offer "SOCAR" in 2016 to the Spanish-Belgian consortium - with Greek money, was financed with money from the Greek banks mainly - which also participated in the MSF, which later entered the group. Its secondment from the PPA, which was a 100% subsidiary, was made unpaid - it has given us a special impression - but by reducing its share capital and a loss of EUR 130.9 million at group level. Immediately after the adoption of your law and without the balance sheets of the new companies - at least we did not find them - a competition was opened for the 'Networks' on 12-9-2019 and for the 'Netherlands' on 23-1-2020. Here it concerns 100% of the shares, i.e. 65% of HELPE and 35% of the shares belonging to ELPE. In this respect, we have the following. First, for the infrastructure project according to reports, an interest has been expressed by the Italian ‘ITALGAS’, by the German ‘E.on’, by the ‘SENFLUGA’ and by the ‘TERNA’, by the ‘SENFLUGA’ and by the ‘SENFLUGA’. I'll testify to that in the Minutes. Secondly, there seems to be almost all of the Greek groups, namely: Mytilene, Kopelouzos, ELPE, MOTOR OIL and PPC. The questions that have been created here are as follows: What is the purpose of the separation and sale of PPA into pieces? Also, there has not yet been a balance sheet for the separation of the "Statute of Commerce" and "Statute of Infrastructure", so we don't know what we're selling and how much we're selling. How will interested parties appreciate its value, how will we know it? Has the ‘Treaty of Trade’ and the ‘Supply of Infrastructure’ been assessed before the sale and by whom? If so, we would like to see it produced if you could. Why is the 20 % purchase being promoted to the FSRU of the Cotton Group at the moment? What will the market be at? Is there a valuation? The cost of investment, as we know, is EUR 400 million. Why are the ELPEs going to leave at least the "DTE Infrastructures"? Have they agreed to leave? What price will they sell their shares at? Finally, does the PPA plan to sell with loans from systemic banks such as DESFA, the fourteen airports and the Greek, depriving the real economy of funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u84	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u85	It's a series of questions. I think I've answered some, but I'll repeat them. The geopolitical works of international importance, such as TAP, Eastmed, IGB, IGI Poseidon, are carried to a separate company, which will remain in the public domain. It is currently under the 'Treaty of Trade'. The law we made in November 2019 provides that prior to the sale, i.e. in the next few months, they will be transferred to the public, so that the geopolitical cooperation and the Memorandum of Cooperation will be controlled by the public. That's the first. Secondly, I will refer to the TEN networks and the country's energy security. The country's energy security is ensured by the Energy Regulatory Authority. She is responsible for evaluating and approving the investment plans of the country's gas grid companies, as she does now. It is responsible for deciding on the permissible return on such investments and thirdly, it is responsible for penalising administrators if they do not comply with the regulatory framework or do not implement the network development plans provided for. Therefore, the country's good functioning for distribution networks is ensured by the regulator. At the same time, an important role for the energy security of the country has also been made by the IPCS, which is also controlled, as manager of the national transmission system which ensures the operation, maintenance, preparation of the various investments on the basis of the rules laid down by the State and which, if necessary, has the corresponding control and sanctions if it does not proceed. Thirdly, FSRU is an important investment for the country, which will allow for the exploitation of the southern-north gas axis. The natural gas from FSRU through the IGB will proceed to Bulgaria and Romania. The FSRU has invested in equity and the Bulgarian gas company and the Romanian gas company and in the next few days will come out of the gas commitments that these countries will buy and all future FSRU clients from this project. Therefore, through both equity and gas contracts, the implementation of this project will be made clear, the role it will have in the northern and southern axis, and the commitment of the companies in these countries to buy gas from the FSRU and will proceed with the project which is a commercial project, with the assistance of the European Union and with money from the Europe facility. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Also, the TEN networks, as well as the other TESS and Attica TEN networks, have made new business plan, new investment projects that have significantly increased the number of network kilometres, which will be carried out in particular by the Attica TENs, given the liberation and need to be presented in households and in televitations in northern Greece. These investment projects have been submitted to the RAE. It goes without saying that the RAE's decision on the approval and commitment of these four-year networks, which if they are not implemented, will be sanctioned regardless of the ownership regime. I would point out, for example, that in the previous period, in which the state was 100% shareholder of the TEN, we had a 380 million project budget, which had to be made by all the 'infrastructures', these TEN subsidiaries and had only been 41 million. Therefore, there were no funds in these companies to respond to these investments. That is why new investors will be assessed for their technical training and the possibility of offering new net funds to make these investments, which the RAE and the State will control. The sale of ELPE by ELPE of the infrastructures has been decided by the ELPE, and will take place at the same time as the sale of the public, i.e. ELPE as shareholder and the public as shareholder, will sell at the same time. Therefore, there is nothing that will not be transparent for the sale of ELPEs. The property segregation scheme requires that anyone who has infrastructure, who has distribution networks, cannot produce and trade and vice versa. Therefore, the ELPEs themselves chose to leave the infrastructure and focus on marketing. You also spoke about energy security. As you know, despite the very well-differentiated gas supply portfolio of DEPA, which is an important asset...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u86	Finish, Minister. The question here has been turned into a question. The timely question has specific questions and answers. We've reached six and a half minutes since the three minutes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u87	I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u88	Thank you very much. We continue with the fifth under the number 549/25-2-2020 topical question by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3'South Athens Sector of Mera25, Sophia Sakorafa, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: 'New case of police immunity using a weapon'. The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Leuteris Economou. Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, to be honest, I expected to see Mr Chrysochide if he would have his personal courage and elementary political responsibility, so that he could come to answer my question himself, since it concerns only his individual political rhetoric and behaviour. That's why I was surprised by your presence today. And in that sense, I really share your rejoicing position to answer instead. In any case, let us come to the case that was the basis of our question. In the midday of February 24, 2020, a police officer appeared in front of the amazement Greek society at the courtyard of the Athens University of Economics to propose his gun to a straight line of purpose, threatening the students present. Here you will allow me to say that it was not the only incident. Reading in the press, we're watching police officers go with guns at a night shop, getting involved with employees, dropping shots. We see a police officer crashing the road and shooting twice in the trunk of the other vehicle. And, of course, I can't imagine that all of these girls might be going to pick up their girls from their jobs. In any case, it seems to the government that the abolition of asylum includes the right of police officers to enter university institutions at all times. Regardless of any other excuses or backgrounds, the government's communicationists want to present, the fact in itself, even if not all the previous ones, shows that the incomplete and in many cases targeted police training does not occur at random, Minister. It is a conscious political choice, integrated into the service of the doctrine 'law and order', as understood by Mr Chrysochoidis. This combination, however, in our view, will inevitably lead to tragic events. This contributes catalysts to the public rhetoric and the presence of Mr Chrysochide, who leaves room for manoeuvre and indirectly encourages such diversions, exacerbating the risks. Unfortunately, it turns out that there is no awareness of the seriousness of the matter, since the government is trying to cover its Minister with communication findings. That is why we have asked and asked Mr Chryssohoidis personally: is the Minister aware of the political responsibility for his position? Is he aware that the public rhetoric and its presence contributes to the repetition of unacceptable incidents of police diversions? Is it aware that there is a direct danger of us ending up with relentless incidents, in which the Minister himself will be at least morally self-sufficient? Our questions, Mr Minister, are very specific and we therefore expect concrete answers from the Minister himself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u90	The Foreign Minister, Mr Leuteris Economou, has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the honourable Member's question, I would like to inform you that, on 24 February and 3 noon, a special guard serving in the two-cyclical policing team, without being on duty but wearing his own pants and holding the helmet helmet helmet helmet he used in the service, set up his motorcycle on Patisian Street outside the Economic University to receive a friendly person. With his appearance and without any hindrance of about thirty people, some of them with covered faces came out of the main entrance of the university, attacked him with craters and other objects, removed his helmet, caused damage to his motorcycle and then dragged him violently into the university yard. Under these circumstances, and under the suffocating pressure and the immediate risk of his life, the special guard proposed his service weapon, but without using it, in an attempt to prevent the attacks of the extremists who abused him. Fortunately, a platoon of the Order Rehabilitation Subdirection, which carried out an orderly service in the area, went to the Economic University of Athens and attempted the restoration of order. He removed his special guard and motorcycle to a safe place. At the same time, the group of thirty people attacked this time, in the midst of cries and temptation, toward the platoon, throwing stones, chairs, fire extinguishers and various other objects. For the history and extent of the violence that has evolved, I inform you that the special guard, after receiving the first aid from the EMCDDA, was then sent to 401, was hospitalized for a forty-hour, bringing very serious injuries and bruisings throughout his body. With regard to the conditions found by the special guard at the university courtyard, but also to the projection of his weapon, he has been ordered by the Directorate-General for Police of Attica, which is undergoing an investigation, while at the same time informing the independent management authority, the Citizens' Counselor. That's what happened on February 24th at the University of Economics. In your question, however, you also raise the level of police training. It is well known that police training is done in a basic, post-educational and post-graduate level of study, in line with the legal practices and the modern police environment. However, education is a fundamental issue of the protection of human rights. Specific Presidential Decrees and Joint Ministerial Decisions define the way and method of education, in order to achieve and serve all the above. I think you know that. I am, however, tabling the relevant Presidential Decrees under which the framework for police training is governed in the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u92	Mrs Sakorafa has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I hope you give me some more time than the three minutes I have. Minister, first of all, I did not speak to you in an acute sense. I hope that you understand that we are doing parliamentary control, and that is why we are obliged to put the issues and you ministers will answer, even if the tone of our voice is a little more than it should be. It is not that simple, it is quite serious, because it concerns youth and it concerns people who have weapons, regardless of whether they are uniforms or not. You referred to extremist elements and refer to students. I will remind you of an event that took place just the day before yesterday. In these 'extremist' elements, I am going to say this phrase and I dare say it in this House - platoons of MAT on the day that they had a Halloween party at their school. Was all this extremist evidence, and did it end so calmly and did the students leave so calmly? You're telling me about police training. I would very much like to have a debate on this at some point. But I would remind you that there has been an IASC competition where a thousand five hundred new special guards were hired, and it has been said that they are unprepared and untrained and some who have a criminal record and are now making corrections. Would you like to answer that? I thought that you could not - and that was the case - answer me on the political presence of the Minister. However, since you have tried to justify unjustified grounds, I must point out that you and the whole of the government are completely responsible if you do not understand the immediate dangers of Mr Chrysochide's merciless behaviour. Remember the famous ministerial ultimatum on the surrender of conquests, which expired in Gregopoulou's anniversary. He put society across, Minister. Remember the full coverage it provided to the police's behavior at ASAE, while silenced when the two students were officially acquitted. He put the youth in front of him, Minister. Let us remember the Indian case, which wrote to Mr. Alivizato that it categorically assures that there were no acts of police violence, challenging the Greek society that had seen the known images of Matrozou street. She put her family asylum against her, Minister. In those days, therefore, he stated, seeking communication triumph, that the occupations include children of rich families. He did not hesitate to slander the Indians from a small political selfishness that they allegedly took part in the occupation to justify violence at the same time as denying that he was exercised. Of course, the findings of the investigations have officially disproved the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis. Similarly stated on 8 December 2019 that extremist repression is lies, that men of MATs did not demolish protesters in the streets. It was the days when the whole society was enjoying the footage of the police business plan with the great - you will allow me to say, ladies and gentlemen, and I apologise -'storms'. And here he put the citizens' personal dignity against, Minister. Recall that one day before the arrival of MS on the islands, he said that "every day the government becomes better and more effective in refugee immigration". He organised an invasion with the most tragic results for both society and the police themselves. Citizens are across the street, Minister. The government was forced to withdraw the MATs from there in order to avoid the worst. In fact, government officials have even been forced to show themselves in Parliament, trying to present that the work planned by the Minister has been completed. And I'm asking. Does Mr. Alivizatos' famous committee have responsibility for mainland Greece alone? Why was it not taken over on the issues of misfortune police practice in the islands of the northern Aegean? There, with emphasis, the Minister's stigma that police action is directed directly against society. The events of Evros followed. Now you think you probably have the ability to rinse out the previous diversions. I think this is a delusion, Minister. So I repeat that the whole presence of the Minister is dangerous for social cohesion and peace. It is unacceptable that the Minister for Civil Protection should run out of his duties by putting in a role of his own invention and playing, you will allow me to say, 'the sheriff'. The Minister faces the Greek society as an enemy and the diversions will be inevitable. Personally, Mr Minister, you, Mr Economou, who has been a senior operational officer, do not understand the weight and the criticalness of what I am referring to you, as far as the Minister is concerned. The ministers are coming and going. However, the results of Mr Chrysochoidis' policy create unattractive injuries in Greek society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u94	The reason for this is the State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Leuteris Economou, for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I had the expectation that under the present conditions in the country's land and sea borders...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u96	They have nothing to do with this, and please don't confuse it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u97	...with the Police, the Port and the Armed Forces attempting against Turkish-based gross invasions of irregular immigrants, faced with a form of hybrid war, you would choose to defer such a style and question content. It is also surprising that the question outside the section on the education and experience of police officers and special guards in its core. Because in this case we have a special guard. The rest of you mentioned I have been answering various topical questions from time to time and I think that the same issues do not need to be returned, when clear answers have been given and investigations are under way at pre-examination level. In this case, however, we have a special guard who has been brutally assaulted and mass violence, because he dared to approach the courtyard of a Greek university to meet and accompany a friendly person. He ended up in hospital two days seriously injured and in shock. However, since the question has been tabled and you have chosen to display it in this way, let us actually go. The Greek Police do not humiliate or violence against citizens and protesters, as is often projected on the basis of ideas, political groups, inside and outside Parliament. The Greek Police enforce the law on those who attack molotovs and stones in the hand. Such attacks, of course, do not constitute individual rights or express any, respecting law and democracy, a youth movement. The Greek Police also help to preserve the rights of all citizens and not a portion that refuses laws and rules. So what some claim to be the only goal of the government is to intimidate the Youth Movement that is struggling, resisting and claiming a better future, and much more that there is police training that is targeted incorrectly. On the other hand, when and if there are incidents of overrun by the police, you know that there are institutionalised procedures to control any excesses and are controlled. And where there is responsibility, the proposed administrative and criminal responsibilities are imposed. The democratic legitimacy of Greece is not disputed and the procedures that ensure it are also not called into question. The police and the government are constantly respecting and striving for legitimacy and ensuring it against those minorities of organised violence who want to enforce the law of the jungle and weapon in our favoured society. We are responding to the solidaritys of extremism of violence and molotovs. Society wants to end tolerance to violence and lawlessness, and the government, always in the framework of the law, firmly and methodically, as promised by its programme declarations, is doing this demand for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 14/20-2-2020 will be debated on the current question by members of the SYRIZA and others. Socrates Famelou, Nikolaos Papa, Ioannis Drasaki, Kalliopis Vetta, Georgios Papaliou, Theophistis (Petis) Perka, Harulas (Haras) Kaphantari, Eleftherios Avrasakis, Athanasios (Nashus) Athanasios, Ioannis Amanatidis, Evangelos Apostolos, Theodoras (Doras) Augeris, Stavros Arahoviitis, Socrates Vardakis, Georgiou Vardenou (Vasilis) Vasilios, Dimitrios Vitsa, Ollas Gerovasiliou, Christos Gianoulou Yannou (Natssia) Garnoumoulooulou (Valonisssiasiasias), Ekradis, Ioannislouaridis, Ioannis Koridis, Ioannisanisilisilisilisiadis, Iovanos, Iovanoulistaniadis, Ioannis, Ioannis Kolououlisilioulissidis, Ioannis Kolououlissidis, Ioannis Kolououlisilissi, Elououlisilisilisilisilisilis (Vanadis), Ek, Ioannislouou, Ioannis Kolouou, Ioannis Kossaniou, Eloou, Ioannis, Iovannis, Ioannisilisilisilisilisilisilisilisilissssos, Elooulissilisaniou, Ioannisanthisilisilisilisilisannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisilisilisilisilisilisilisilis, Eloou – Kos, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis Mr Hatzidakis will respond to the topical question, which is currently being answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, because of a traffic burden. Until we say the procedural procedures, for there to be better information, I imagine the Minister will come in. In addition, the State Secretary for the Environment and Energy, Mr Thomas, is present here. Let me tell you about the times. Mr. Famelos, who is the first question, has ten minutes of speaking in his prototype and five in his denology. Mr. Papas, Mr. Drasakis, Mrs. Perkas and Mrs. Vettas have five minutes in protology and three in denology. Mr. Papaliou and Mrs. Kafantaris have three minutes prototype and two seconds. Of course, if one needs to use one of the things I mentioned, it can in the process, obviously, when one is overcoming the fixed time by something - that is what we will determine - say that it will also take the seconds. Most of all, it is the experience of those who have little time. Now the three and two minutes are better to get confused in five minutes than to stay. With regard to parliamentary representatives, Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, on the side of SYRIZA, has 12 minutes of protagonists, six minutes of dentology and, if necessary, three minutes of tritology. Mrs Zoe Raptis, as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, has a speaking time for six minutes. Mr Arvanitis, as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, like Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the same thing as Mr Karathanasopoulos, as a parliamentary representative of the JRC. From the Greek Solution, the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, will speak as a parliamentary representative for eight minutes and from Mera25, Mr. Kriton Arsenis has the right to speak for six minutes. I think we can start the process until the Minister comes, because it would not be appropriate to have an interruption. That's why I'm calling in the Step of the First Deputy MEP of SYRIZA, Mr. Socrates Famelos. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, the tabling of a timely question by a sixty-member of the Officerial Representation, I think, requires that all of us be here and obviously, the Minister. We are, however, typical of the parliamentary rule, respecting the procedures and starting without the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the climate crisis poses the question of survival to the world community next day, the question of the climate crisis. SYRIZA, although prioritised in 2015-2019 the country's salvation, exit from the memoranda and bankruptcy, did not underestimate environmental obligations, as previous governments did. On the other hand, it supported the Paris Agreement in 2015. It was within the first ten countries, which voted here in the Greek Parliament on this agreement. It made the law of adaptation for resistance to climate change, the first energy and climate plan. He pledged the country with the placement of Alexis Tsipras at the summit in June 2019 in the aim of climate neutrality. It is our planning option for this reform. It is an element of the country's development strategy. It is an element of the strategy that we have also presented here to the Greek Parliament, but which we tabled at the UN Summit on a voluntary basis in July 2018. Because we know that the transition is a matter of life, but it is also a revolution, a substantial structurally progressive reform. Unfortunately, during the governance of the New Democracy, the Government chose this important reform to take place without a plan, to be a micro-party communication tool, unfortunately, and to be - if you like - the staff that gives rise to sins in the project, which the Ministry of the Environment and Energy actually has, namely, the sale of public property in the field of energy, but also the promotion of a few business interests. This option creates serious problems in the country as well as disastrous consequences for the lignite regions. That is why our timely question particularly highlights the serious problems in these areas, how destructive Mr Mitsotakis is for lignite areas, because there is no development plan. There is no way out of survival for these areas. The draft of the Ministry of the Environment and Mr Mitsotakis himself is summarised in three axes. Firstly, one of the measures announced by the government, the Minister for the Environment himself, in western Macedonia, was tax reliefs and tax exemptions for those who lose their jobs. This is the New Democracy. It has no plan for the new economy, the new productive model, sustainable development, but it chooses to create armies of unemployed and gives them tax exemption, as if that were the problem! Secondly, the question of electricity production. The government chooses gas to remain in the country's electricity mix until at least 2050 on the basis of the long-term strategy it has submitted to the European Commission, but it has not brought it to the Greek Parliament - and we are tabling it - and it describes that although the European Investment Bank stops financing natural gas projects and even though the share of electricity production and gas has to be reduced, we will have 2050 natural gas for electricity production in Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The third axis is the one that Mr. Hadjidakis himself boasted in his recent visit to the Ministry of the Environment, that it is the Ministry with the most privatizations in Greece. This is the role that Mr Hatzidakis holds for the Ministry of the Environment, to sell public property to the networks, not to have any energy planning tool. Apart from DEPA, which is already sold to an owner, please, the whole gas network - beyond IPTO, DADIE, what is it doing? It replaces lignite with private gas units, because this is the main project. Private gas units instead of renewable energy! Mr Hatzidakis' plan opposes the country's adaptation to renewable energy sources. How does that turn out? Numbers. There is the national energy and climate plan, a draft SYRIZA plan: Natural gas would have a 2030-18% rate of electricity production compared with 27% of 2016. What does Mr. Hatzidakis propose? He suggests 32%. I repeat: 18% would have gas in electricity generation in 2030, with Mr. Hatzidakis going to 32%. So he chooses to carbonize the country's electricity production, not carbonize it. This option, of course, will leave the country completely exposed and intact to an energy crisis, to modify the gas price, as happened in December 2016 until February 2017. Moreover, the need to depreciate private investment will create a clear cost to the producer, costs to the consumer, costs to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Our country's producers and households will be charged with increasing energy costs. Ladies and gentlemen, however, because it is a very serious issue, all the world's organisations consider that this transition requires a plan. It wants a project which should have national characteristics in mind and local characteristics. That's what the world community does. This week the European Commission discussed the proposal for a regulation and included climate neutrality in a project, which - if I am not mistaken - since November 2018, two years ago. So this was the paradox here. Mr Mitsotakis at the UN summit announces something Mr Thomas does not know about the Council of Ministers of the European Union the next day. Because it refers to a withdrawal of the majority of lignite plants by 2030 and not to the full by 2028. After an unprepared, sloppy and superficial, hollow announcement, a “licensing shirt”, he then comes to make national design for energy and climate, then make design of an adequacy of electrical load for the next decade and now go to consult in western Macedonia, without having to propose to western Macedonia a plan. This, without funding today, without productive planning today in areas that at least 40% to 45% depend on GDP generation. So imagine that it condemns 45% of the active potential, economic production, all social cohesion for an 'empty shirt'? No, of course not. But for private gas companies, because that's the plan. It does not have a clear defoliation plan, it does not have carbonisation because it increases natural gas. It has no benefit for the country, because it did not negotiate to win something Greece, which the Samara - Venizelos government has done again in 2013-2014, when it did not get free rights and mortgaged the lignite plants since then. There are many articles, Mr Hatzidakis, that you will have other problems with the institutions, because you probably have other aims to achieve with this premature defoliation. Institutions probably don't listen to you. However, we are asking for another topical question, for the lignite regions, for the areas that should be fair to the transition, which must therefore prove as a state that what SYRIZA started, which created the first pan-European Fair Transit Fund, will continue for these regions, to have a future, to have jobs tomorrow, to have social cohesion, to reduce the consequences of your own policy, Mr Hatzidakis, but also to create the programme of the next democratic, progressive governance. It's not just that they don't have a defoliation plan. It is not just that the ESRB and the study of IPTO took place after the announcement. It is not just that they did not negotiate with Europeans. But they don't even have the administrative and technical competence to tell us what is going to happen to Ptolemais V. What's going on in Ptolemais V? Today Greece invests 1.5 billion euros in the most modern and large lignite power plant and according to the communications by Mr Hatzidakis, this unit in 2028 will not use lignite. We ask: What fuel will it use after 2028? Please, if you have the basic technical, administrative competence to testify to us the technological and economic study of fuel after 2028, to know where it goes to 1.5 billion. Because this is being invested today in western Macedonia. I believe, however, that the increases you give to the Golden Boys of PPC, which you have appointed five times the remuneration of the CEO, are free. You have neither a European nor a technocratic profile, Mr. Hatzidakis. It's a fake thing you're pulling out. Because you don't have a plan for Ptolemais V. That you were driven into these options, you're now going to charge it to SYRIZA. You know, it's amazing. We have a government that opposes opposition to opposition, because it simply doesn't have politics. You cannot, in other words, do anything better and you want to charge our commitment to lignite. I suspect - and I say it publicly - that you do this to hide the agreement you have made with the individuals who will enter the gas. But I want to tell you something very simple. If we were to keep lignite or have a commitment to lignite, why was SYRIZA the first party, the first government to create a fair transition fund in western Macedonia and Megalopolis? Why did we, in public space and not in private space, secretly with limited invitations and with the MATs outside, announce liberation, carbonisation and a fair transition and give real resources to the area that we gave you to the fund and 'frozen' them? Because here, it seems who is against the region and in favour of the country's delay. We and demolition and carbonisation and climate neutrality started with resources in the fund and you 'frozen' them. So what's your plan? To freeze the people in western Macedonia and Megalopolis? We had a plan with energy security in the country, with independence without dependency, with low costs, to combat both energy poverty and production costs, with a fair transition, rehabilitation of areas, compliance with environmental conditions. That is why we made a roadmap, so we started our study with the World Bank, so we managed to achieve greenhouse gas rights revenue for the region with the first 31.5 million in the fund when you received it. We did a public consultation. We have made two legislative arrangements to establish the fund, a joint ministerial decision which includes the development of a master plan for Megalopolis, which has no plan even now. In two years all workers will be out of work and there is still no start of the plan for Megalopolis. We also launched the televi-heat works. Mr President, for a minute more than that, we then came with a question on 27 September to ask what is happening, because we were concerned and did not answer it in writing. We came with a topical question and your Deputy Minister told us, because you didn't come, that there is still no plan, that the World Bank will do it, while you changed the timelines and put the topical issue on which the whole world will be working in 2023. And we came and tabled an amendment to you in the development bill - the early development bill - so that there would be a special development status in the regions and you rejected it. Is that your concept of areas? Did you even reject joining a special development scheme and you came to announce an economic zone that has not been approved? Or to announce photovoltaics on non-existent soils? Or - we're wondering - what's your plan anyway? We remember: it is the tax exemptions for the unemployed, because you want and condemn all these people to be unemployed. But we even held a conference in the European Parliament together with the GUE, the United Left Parliamentary Group on 29 January 2020, where I note that Eric Von Bresca, the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Regional Development, said that a fair transition takes decades. You want to achieve it in three years, with no plan and no resources. So the questions are simple: What development studies did you rely on? What exchanges did you gain from negotiating to speed up defoliation? What are the consequences on PPC's business plan and when will we see it? When will you have a plan for these regions and on what lines? What will happen to Megalopolis Municipality? What is the production standard? We had already anticipated, because we had ready subsidies for business projects in the energy communities that you degrade, for energy savings in buildings that you did not publish, in the primary sector, in the greenhouse parks, in the cyclical economy, in the industrial heritage. Also, a big question is, Mr Hatzidakis, what are you going to do with Ptolemais V at last for a half and a half billion invested in the country? And what will be done with the land recovery plan for all these PVs you have announced, which we find you have not submitted the slightest plan for where they will be installed. In any case, SYRIZA is here because he started planning a fair transition. SYRIZA will complete it and defend the rights of both the country and the residents. Because that's what SYRIZA always does. He's with society and he's still going to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u101	MEP B3 of the South Athens Sector Mr. Nikos Pappas has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to focus on the financial implications of the New Democracy announcement and the consequences of its overall policy because it seems here that you systematically refuse to draw conclusions. How did you start? You started by canceling our own commitment to lower surpluses. You cut off the thirteenth pension, you didn't give a dividend to our three million fellow citizens, you froze the big projects, and BOAK, and E65, and the metro of Thessaloniki, and the line 4 of the metro of Athens, and for western Macedonia and Megalopolis you go to a plan, he says, defoliation until 2023. Given the speed you're returning to the investments by 2023, all you've achieved will be downloading the switch. Here I will disagree with Mr Socrates Famelos, who said about development law. There is no development law, Mr. Comrade. No development law, no project has been integrated. The only thing that development law has achieved is a violent change in working conditions at the expense of employees with Mr Brutsi's emblems. That's the reality. Do you have a plan? Oh, no. Do you have a study? Oh, no. Is it not justified, then, that the inhabitants of these regions are concerned that the only thing they will have left is the downhill switches and unestablished lignite fields? I think it is a rather sensible reaction from the people because you do not take into account the overall impact that your movement will have on the wider region. For each job in PPC and in the contractors, another three are supported. And for every euro paid, three more euros of income are created. If it is 400 million, then, pay, we are talking about 1.2 billion losses from violent degreasement, from the mere downturn of the switch, which you have chosen. We are talking about the loss of twenty-five to twenty-five thousand jobs. Be careful, continue along the same path as if you did not hear what is going on around and as if you do not understand what the consequences of your policy's incompetence and neoliberal obsession are already. Did you hear the news? In the fourth quarter of 2019, we have 0.7% recession. We're not surprised. When you freeze big works, and you have a huge zero in what you're supposed to be development law, and all you do is fight opposition to opposition, that's what you're coming to face. Your vision of the islands of the eastern Aegean is well understood. Today, we are even more aware of the prospects for western Macedonia and Megalopolis. We, on these issues already since November last year, have set the conditions under which a smooth transition should be made. The smooth transition should guarantee the country's energy security, and the low energy costs for its inhabitants, and a plan to implement a fair transition and to guarantee an important role for PPC for the next day, to ensure that the areas that we are talking about are districts, and, of course, to restore the lignite fields. I conclude with the following: you need to change your questions immediately. The results for the economy, which I have just mentioned, namely a recession of 0.7%, are your work. Do not try to drop them either in the krone or in the United States-China trade war or in Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. Change the door now. Activate the design we had for the large projects planned this year and the public spending time of 4 billion, which have a multiplier of 2. Secondly, make use of the reserve to create a financial area. Do not tell us, because we will bring you to the House to answer - you are not the one responsible - that the pillow cannot be used. Because when we discussed the HERAKLIS project, your arguments were that it would not go into the public koruna and that it would only be guarantees. We read yesterday on a website, and we would like the post to be disproved, that there is a Greek proposal to enter the cash collective for guarantees. Yes, sir! In other words, you are ready to provide cash as a guarantee on the guarantee to proceed with the project "HRAKLIS" and refuse to consider the implementation of our own coherent stock recovery plan in order to form a financial space and to build the necessary reservoirs against intrinsic reasons, but also external factors that will negatively affect the Greek economy. He needs bravery and a change of course, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u103	Thank you. The speech is given by MP B2 West Athens Mr. Yiannis Drasakis for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, with your permission I will also use dentistry. As Mr Pappas has rightly said before, the evidence that ELSTAT announced today must be considered. On this basis, 2019 closes to 1.9% of GDP. I would remind you that in the second quarter we delivered the economy with 2.8%. This development is before the effects of the coronary, which are still undetermined. Therefore, the need for a comprehensive policy redesign, as far as this government can do so, arises as an undeniable need. But I do not want to go on with this serious issue anymore, because the issue we are discussing today is a crucial one. And it is crucial because climate change, which is transformed into a climate crisis since we do not take measures, the fourth industrial revolution and the expanded social and regional disparities are, in our view, the three major challenges of our time and the new SYRIZA programme, precisely we expect it to give priority to these three challenges, together with other of course. The subject we are discussing is one aspect, I would say, of this more general issue, and that is why it is so important. I think there is a need to clarify exactly what the problem we are discussing in relation to the areas affected by liberation is. The problem is new, it is unusual, it is original for us and for all countries. It is not just about closing down some mines where you need to see employment issues for the workers and rehabilitating the area. It is not about managing a normal deindustrialisation case. Europe has a lot of experience in such cases and we have some experiences in the past, such as in Lavrio, Volos, etc. It is not just a question of defoliation. It is about the need to radically change the development model of the region, economic activities, living conditions in whole regions. We are talking here about western Macedonia and Megalopolis. In other words, complex changes and transformations must be made in order to create a new economy that is neutral, environmentally clean, sustainable and socially just. Part of this problem is defoliation. What are the conditions for dealing with this new original and complex problem? International organisations, but also high-profile scientists, warn that these problems cannot be dealt with in terms of purchases or in terms of interest. They have specific conditions. The first is the existence of a holistic transition strategy, to which I referred, which ensures guaranteed employment, income and prosperity prospects for these regions. The second condition is to ensure extended, substantial social participation and support. As the object of the transition is society, there cannot be a transition without society. Logic force that we read in right-wing newspapers, force practices that we see from the government will be disastrous if it attempts to approach the problem with such logic. The fairness of the transition and the social consensus are therefore a starting point and not a demand in the process. The third condition is the existence of appropriate regional and local development institutions and tools for policy planning, consultation, implementation and evaluation. The fourth condition is that guaranteed funding, as well as bodies suitable for the collection and uniform planning of allocation and finally the allocation of resources. The policy of the Government of New Democracy does not satisfy any of these conditions, as if it were intended not to comply with any of the things that, as I said, indicate, global experience, science and international organizations. It does not have a strategic plan. First, it announces when the units will close and then discuss - and it does not now discuss - the consequences and management of the units. It has succeeded - the worst it could happen - to create a generalised distrust and suspicion among local populations instead of consensus. It has not created the necessary institutions and discusses policy consultation and implementation planning. It contains a number of available resources from Europe without explaining that we will not get a single euro unless we have the appropriate plans in time and do not create the institutional conditions necessary for the proper management of these resources. In view of this data, it really is important to see what our government has done in the past, which the government has misled or 'frozen' them, but it also matters what we are doing today. The proposal was ours, and it is that in all regions, which are affected in one way or another, there must be programme agreements for a fair transition. These agreements must provide for all measures necessary to ensure employment, economic activity, income, etc. They have been mentioned and will be mentioned by speakers several such figures and examples. These agreements must also take the form of a project, which brings together and ensures the cooperation of all the actors involved. Self-government, workers, businesses, research institutions, educational institutions, cultural bodies, the whole society in the form of - we say, there may be many ideas here - a forum must be those forces that ensure the design, implementation, control, correction of policies depending on the results. As far as the overall plan is concerned, the initiative of the previous government, ours, was important. We've been waiting for a plan from the World Bank, the World Bank. That's something. But you must not wait, Minister, for this project to come in June, because we know that this project will not cover these specialties, which must have a final plan. So you must now tell us what process, with which bodies, with which institutions, will there be this project, which will guarantee employment, income, prospects. As far as resources are concerned, the Development Bank that we have created and which is positive that the present Government as Opposition then also passed the bill, with appropriate organisational, administrative and financial upgrades, could play the body that will gather, coordinate, lever and distribute resources transparently and effectively. So, now, you have two annexes - as we intended - one in Kozani, one in Tripoli, one in a city in the Peloponnese, to start the process that I described. Now you, in cooperation with the co-legislative ministers, have been mandated to design specific financial instruments for the region, as can be done and some of the Development Bank. By the way, ask the Minister of Finance what happened to the bill, which we had ready for the micro-credits. I was promised by the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance that he will be coming soon. It's March. The bill was ready. He's stalling. It would be that and it would be a tool, along with the others in this case that we describe. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, returning to the general. The issues we are discussing have a lot of technical aspects and they also require specific discussions. But the more politically-oriented issue is, I think, a simple one. The dilemma is not yes or no to ligniteation. We do not have the luxury of having a dilemma whether or not we have to face climate change when life is judged on the planet itself. The real dilemma is politics, in what way, in what policy. Right has an ID. Its policy is based on markets, it serves interests, it is indifferent to inequalities, and that is why it broadens disparities. Faced with this policy, the Left opposes a policy of participatoryness, a policy that wants to tackle the problem while reducing inequalities, because the roots of the problems are common. It is a policy that respects locality and that is why we want to have a policy planning at national and local level. That is why we call on the inhabitants of the region, the regions affected, the people, the workers, particularly the progressive forces to form a broad social front. This issue cannot be solved by decrees alone and by protest - I say so - wants active participation and collapsing around the idea of a project that must be produced, which will ensure the transition of these regions, as I said, to a sustainable, fair, climate neutral economy. We can transform the country's proper political governance - which will not be long, I believe - into this big problem in an opportunity for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u105	The reason for the speech is Mr. Theophiste Perka for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u106	Evening, too. As a Member of Parliament, I will begin with the great disaster that has occurred in my own country, but also in western Macedonia in general. Because it is coming here today as an environmentally prosperous party to tell us that because of climate change we are going through degreeisation and others, when it is the party that is largely responsible for monoculture in the region this year - because there was never another design - when PPC never entered the gas market in the 1990s and had a small share, when it was never a player in the RES, when PPC was under 2% in the RES when we received it. In 2018, for the first time, Greece caught the targets with us, we brought it up. Of course, I will mention a few figures: the unemployment of young people under the age of twenty-four in Florina is 75% and overall unemployment - on average - reaches 42%. Third of the end in European regions is the region of western Macedonia, with the highest unemployment in Greece and others. This shows that cohesion policies have not worked, that they have not worked. So we have a time-lag in this area. Obviously, we are in agreement with the objective of degreasement and, indeed, we call carbonisation. Obviously - Socrates Famelos said so as not to repeat them - our President signed the Paris Agreement. But listen: Even European texts speak of a fair transition, speak of a different starting point, depending on the involvement of activities in the lignite region. The scale is not the same for a very deep economic and social transformation in these regions. What does that mean? We may only have ambitious objectives if we have the appropriate plans and obviously the financial instruments that do not appear to exist. So our country is frontline, the pilot of the new agreement, but the funding criteria have not claimed them - it seems, as in other areas, that this government has not learned to claim - which do not take into account the degree of dependence of local economies on lignite activity or, of course, the speed of defoliation. That, Minister, is what you must claim. For example, the spring semester report predicts an estimated loss of jobs of twenty-five to twenty-seven thousand, a hundred thousand connections to the district heating networks, unemployment. Rehabilitation, as well as repurposing, rehabilitation depending on use, is a very important challenge. And, of course, job losses are not covered by any proposals of the 'large photovoltaic' type, which by the way we say that many acres are needed, many of which are already being used by young farmers or could be given to young farmers. The horizontal areas in relation to the emboss are specific. Some have been restored as a forest. And in any case, even restoration - because I have to speak a little as an engineer - takes at least five years to get the differentiated precipitations and wants, of course, after condensation and so on. None of this has happened. So we are concerned, and the people of the region are concerned, precisely about this, no work, no provision, no plan, no strategic alternative to these laws that show that they will be devastated. Because it may be a challenge with certain conditions, but the real danger of the region being devastated is visible. There is a risk that the inhabitants will stay in the bi-monthly hug with expropriated, polluted areas. Today there are villages - Achlada, Valtonera, Anargyroi - which from the descents fall. There is already the issue, apart from landslides, of illiteracy. In the courtyard of Melite, A.M.Melitis, we have the first self-leafings. But, in general terms, the restoration of the territory, but also the change, of a region's profile, will take decades. We have examples. We are monitoring international experience a little. It is the Ruhr of Germany, it is the ecological transition of the Emser region to Germany. Multiannual planning, mobilisation of multi-annual financial instruments and consultation not only at the level of bodies, but also with citizens themselves. And we come to the participatory process, he said it very nicely and Yiannis Drasakis. For us it matters whether the development of RES will be carried out exclusively by large private enterprises - business as appropriate - or participation by the citizens themselves, who will produce the energy they consume and local communities will participate and benefit from it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] SYRIZA introduced the institution of energy communities. We have many examples - I do not have the time - but we also had an intention, a percentage of RES, 30%, to go exclusively to energy communities. This is done in Germany at 25% already. In addition, private investment must necessarily give part of their shares in local institutions, municipalities and regions. In Germany this figure is 20%. We need to see a little and what's going on outside. With regard to district heating - and I'm ending - the town with the lowest temperatures, with the most heavy winters is Florida and I think you all know it. There's no district heating, there's never been any responsibilities for a mayor that you supported and others took him away from you. But that doesn't matter. It is important that now, today, the network has arrived out of the city, and suddenly we learn that this plan is going, we will put gas into Florina and western Macedonia, other networks. So listen to see international experience here: The district heating network must be completed, what heat load we will use to see the next day. We can't dismantle the district heating. Do you know that in Denmark 1/3 of investment involves district heating investments, that France is doing the same thing as geothermality, that in England the installation of gas in newly built homes has stopped and that it should be replaced? Where are we?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u107	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u108	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u109	But you're not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u110	Anyway, I'll say the rest in dentistry. I just want to say that the involvement and agreement of the local community is essential. A Bottom, one of the bottom-up, transparent process and all the stakeholders, the stackholders, need to agree on a transition plan at national and local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u111	I call to Stepma Congressman Kozanis Kallipe Vetta for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to the general concern a few issues and I would ask the Minister very much to respond to this concern of the people of my region, of Western Macedonia, of Kozani in particular. As soon as a text was published in the daily press, which describes the Commission's views on defoliation, was given. There it says that some twenty-seven thousand jobs are directly at risk from the government's plan to violently stop electricity production in western Macedonia, in an area with the highest unemployment rate at the moment. The Government shall be affected by the final state. Shouldn't such a technocratic government, as you want to present to us, present us with a feasibility study before the announcement, an impact study to document the need to implement in such a way degreasing in a region based on its GDP of 40% to 45% in this activity? The Technical Chamber of Greece in the Department of Western Macedonia, with its announcement, likewise supports the lack of a master plan for the way and the cost of liberation, even adopting the timetable and options of the government of SYRIZA. I insist on my question why you did not consider it appropriate to become a master plan and put it forward for the summer. Why did he not precede the Prime Minister's announcement? How were the time points set, in 2023 and 2028? What do you say to the Commissioner of DG REGIO Eliza Ferrara who, in its official position in the European Union, claimed that a fair transition can only take place after decades of preparation and measures, as was done in Rure and Emser, Germany? Mr Stathopoulos, President of the Green Fund, which you put before you yesterday in the Special Committee on Environmental Protection, answered, for a moment, a question I asked about the frustration: 'To be given...' - says - '... an opportunity to put a bet like a country with ourselves into something to be pioneers'. Gentlemen, are you treating defoliation as a bet? Your policy is gambling? And if he gets lost, who's the injured? You, residents, workers, gas companies, Greek businesses and households who will see the cost of electricity escalate? Which one? Also, at what point was the announcement of liberation in the New Democracy programme? Is this another case of applying the vote to the fact that there is no such thing at all? I keep asking questions. First of all, let me inform you that the whole local community is against all of this. In particular, chambers, municipal councils, educational bodies draw up convicted resolutions with unanimous decisions against this government's decision. The studies show an increase in unemployment, population ageing due to imminent migration. You tried to hold a conference in Kosani, which was amateurly structured, since one day before no one knew the exact programme or invited. On the day of the conference, you served in an authoritarian manner, with MATs and chemicals in exclusion, which led all the local players to leave the pretext event. So society's freedom, as you are accustomed to! I'll say specifically about the photovoltaics. They'll start, at best, in two or three years. However, they do not guarantee permanent jobs as a high number of staff are not required after construction. Do you maintain in the unfounded view that the PV projects will balance the tens of thousands of jobs lost? Do you stick to her? Has you been concerned about the fact that many thousands of acres are needed, from thirty thousand to forty-five thousand - so estimated - which should be flattened and safe? When will you be able to do it? Do you know that it takes a decade, at least, for the definitive condensation and consistency of the soils so that there are no precipitations? Have you secured the acres for 2 GW of photovoltaics? Also, where are the plans for voluntary withdrawal of workers, when in a few months' time they must be implemented? How will you deal with the reality that says that for each worker's job PPC is created or maintained throughout the region 2,6 to four jobs, Minister? What are you going to do with the over four thousand contract workers working? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] It is too little time to ask all these questions. I'll try to do it very soon. I would like to say to PPC that given the closure of lignite plants and the above increase in gas production, what will be the rate of PPC in the next decade? What does PPC's famous business plan provide for? Given PPC's lignite-fired areas of presence and operation - land ownership, organization, infrastructure, know-how, management capacity, etc. - it is obvious that its role in the post-lining period and in the development of the regions is irreplaceable. This is recognised by all local actors and bodies. What are PPC's plans for the issue? What production activities do the company plan for the area? With regard to land restoration, it is known that this is being done smoothly and with the least cost, as far as possible, by continuing mining activity and by reducing it as smoothly as possible until its planned termination. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The abrupt termination - I conclude, Mr President - of the operation of mines, without the repayment of lignite reserves entails major technical problems, such as self-determination mentioned earlier and, of course, significant economic costs. What does your plan for this? Are there possible problems in the aquifer? We have also heard no mention of what will be the final use of the land to be restored. Will local communities participate in the debate or will you bring them back to surprise? What about the abandoned buildings, the warehouses? Will they remain deaf, or will they be exploited and in what way? Finally, I should like to say something special, but something special, which needs an answer. PPC was in the discussions about the relocation of settlements, such as that of the Akrini. In fact, the SYRIZA government had created the institutional framework for the relocation that was not foreseen until then. What are you going to do in view of your plan to demilitarise the area? Please respect my country's agony and answer the questions. I have more to say, which I might say in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u113	We continue with MP Arcadias, George Papaliou, who has three minutes for his protology. I don't know, Mr. Colleague, if you want your dentistry. But you have to tell us now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u114	I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u115	Oh, good! So, here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of national energy policy must be security of energy supply, low prices for consumption, households and businesses and environmental protection. These combined cannot be achieved by the market laws that neoliberalism has produced to 'good news'. What's the government doing? It violently interrupts the operation of lignite plants and assigns electricity to private gas plants, which also has a negative environmental footprint. This design is framed by the parallel sale of the whole natural gas network of the country to private interests. In this regard, issues need to be answered, such as the time spent on lignite plants, energy equilibrium and logistical adequacy of the system with affordable prices for consumption, environmental protection and, above all, economic and social results. The areas with lignite reserves that host PPC's units must look for and design outlets for their survival and development during the post-aggregation period on the basis of their comparative advantages, with a sustainable plan in the long term rather than in the logic of short-term interventions. The Megalopolis and the wider region are one of these regions. As an economy and society PPC has been built around. On the government side of the NW, the violent death of the lignite units of PPC Megalopolis has been announced. For Unit 3, the Prime Minister himself had announced its closure in the first few months of 2020. Later this time was moved. The last version - which is why I say that there is no governmental planning - is that all lignite plants will be closed in 2023. This time is not enough to make substantial preparations for the post-living period. The violent death of lignite plants in Megalopolis is a overwhelming blow for Megalopolis, as well as for the entire Arcadia. Immediately and immediately a thousand five hundred jobs will be lost, eight hundred six permanent posts, one hundred forty-seven miners and four hundred contractors and many other indirects that will be the result of the region's marvelation. It will bring about the violent death of Megalopolis and the wider region. Let us not forget that much more if the operation of lignite plants is stopped, the area is very problematic. With constant changes, Minister, in times, planning, resources and general promises, you cannot convince anyone that you can cope with the complex work of the post-lining era, precisely because you have no plan. So humiliate the inhabitants too. Listen to the experts. Think productively and do responsiblely. For our part, we propose substantial and serious consultation with the local community for the preparation of the post-linguistic period, in order to determine the direction of productive reconstruction in the region and, above all, the creation of jobs, once it has ceased to depend on lignite and this on the basis of the comparative advantages that the region has. Indicatively, its geographical location, located in the centre of the Peloponnese, the mine and the AIS infrastructures, large areas which must, however, be restored, a highly qualified technical staff who will need retraining. If they don't do this, the Megalopolis will become a skull place. Ensuring the resources required is a crucial issue. The sources of funding are those that the government of SYRIZA had announced and on this basis had promoted an initial design in cooperation with the local society. The strategy for financing the smooth and fair transition with the establishment of the national fair transition fund was established and financial axes for the development of clean forms of energy, support for the primary sector, cyclical economy actions, support for labour, etc. were identified. Minister, these actions included the development plan for a fair transition to Megalopolis. You no longer finance this, you've frozen it. So what is now seen is confusion as to what is to come. The energy transition with the least possible economic costs and the productive redirection of the region must be both smooth and fair. Local society through local government and local bodies can play an important social and development role. Our concern, however, about the lack of a plan, about the consequences of the sloppy and uncoordinated planning of violent ligniteification is something that concerns Megalopolis and the wider region. Finally, I would like to ask five individual questions that matter to our region.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u117	Mr Colleague, five questions, while you have already exceeded time. Please hang up very concisely.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u118	I'll go. First, how will you ensure the complete operation of the Megalopolis district's district's district's district heating, which is connected to Lignite 3, which you have announced will be closed? Secondly, what are you planning on rehabilitating the territories that takes time? Thirdly, the allocation of real money to be provided at local level should be cleared up. Fourthly, given that lignite production is a very large part of the region's GDP, how will the disproportionate effect on another production model in the region be taken into account so that it can be properly financed? Fifth, is there any provision for a special development programme in the region? I would also say the entire Arcadia prefecture, since the effects of lipomatisation extend to the whole prefecture. Sixth, specify the phases of the overall plan you say you have - we say you do not have - and the individual projects? Will the design of the TENs for the expansion of the natural gas network to the cities of the Peloponnese, maintaining the funding and guarantees provided by the TENs, as a public body, proceed? In conclusion, we must move in this direction in order to prepare for the post-liner period. Cooperation is needed between the state, PPC, workers and local communities. As Mr Drasakis said earlier, we need a social movement, since the NGO Government refuses to collide in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u119	We are completing the list of questions with Congressman B2 of the Athens West, Mrs. Hara Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u120	I'll take my dentistry time as well. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, 'So without programme', for the oldest of us, the largest, we must remember a radio show in the 1990s. So, I'd say today without a program, it looks like your plan for so-called liberation. Your government has put deprivation as an ambitious target. Instead of the gradual date is set earlier than the European proposals. However, as a SYRIZA, as a historical ecological power, I would say, I would not disagree with that. The transition to climate neutrality and demolition of the economy as quickly as possible is a necessary and necessary objective, both on the basis of the Paris climate agreement, but of course with the recent green agreement of the European Union. But how's that gonna happen? Your proposal is seen as a waste, since in the EESC, you do not have a basic schedule for transition to the post-linguistic age or the programming that you have actually not been decarbonised, to say it simply. You have not secured any specific funding, resources and that funds are insufficient. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that there is certain evidence, for example in Germany, where German lignite-based degreasing on the basis of data from Germany's energy company will cost 1.2 billion for a thousand megawatt lignite which is being withdrawn. They're planning people. What do we have here? That's what we expect to hear from you. Here, in fact, you in the new energy mix proposed, are replaced by lignite generation from natural gas, of course, this is no accident if we remember the presence of the Prime Minister at the opening of a gas unit known as the company. I would also like to ask a question here, Minister. Does the natural gas that is proposed in your proposal also speak of introducing slate gas that recently implied your Minister to Evros, referring to the known fracking? One question is that. Excessive production of natural gas, therefore, continues our country's dependence on fossil fuels and even imported, subsidising countries and jobs abroad, while the security of our country's supply is not guaranteed. Thus, dependence on fossil fuels remains at a high level. International connections remain high, continuing and increasing dependence and, allow me, indirect subsidies for coalfired plants abroad. Nor is there a strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions anywhere. It had previously been proposed to replace steam power plants with coal or lignite, with a gas combustion plant. However, the European Commission and the European Investment Bank recently, in a report in September, reject such solutions and, as we know, the European Investment Bank since 2021 will not finance natural gas infrastructure projects, thereby jeopardising the financing of projects of common interest of the European Union. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] A friendly tactic of your government, Mr Ministers, and since the 1990s and the governments that have been ruling by 2015 was: When I want to sell something, I discredit it, I underestimate it, I degrade it. This tactic you remind us of what you did in relation to PPC. Of course, some also remember the tactics in the 'Olympian'. I would like to say here that PPC has a problem and no one has denied it. But the solution is not to divest, it is not the privatisation of the networks and the policy you are implementing. Here I would remind you that in the difficult years 2015 to 2019 the price of electricity against the SYRIZA government decreased 12%, in 2011 to 2015 it increased 60% and we had that terrible energy poverty. And I am sorry to say this from the Step of the House, but today there are also fellow citizens from whom the current is being cut and who are essentially vulnerable social groups. Now what are the solutions? Specific proposals, new technologies, other entirely logical, new technologies and innovation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please a little more, Mr President. That is the future, even technologies for storing discarded renewable energy, because we will also be dealing with that in the future. I will conclude with the following, Ministers, and this is the recent report to the European Commission, Greece 2020 report, in the European Semester 2020, the fifth recent report, which states, among other things, that 'The recent draft announced for the decommissioning of lignite power plants in Greece by 2028 will have a positive environmental impact, but will cause significant economic and social problems in both regions, Megalopolis and western Macedonia. A specific plan for social and regional development measures is needed for the benefit of affected areas. The transition to climate neutrality shall be fair, helping regions most affected to face social and economic consequences.’; The EU also says: Designing labour market policies, social inclusion, no one is left behind. The design of tailored support for local small enterprises directly and indirectly affected by the closure of the lignite industry is of vital importance. Impairment of negative social impacts. From the point of view of security of supply, the reduction in lignite production indicates the need to replace it with sufficient alternative capacity, such as RES. Social dialogue, which is very important, and of course also sets the gender dimension - and today we also had an event here in the House - to mitigate the existing inequalities between the sexes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, exactly what the European Commission's report says and what SYRIZA says. You as a government don't have a plan. We expect to hear it, a plan which will lead us to the carbonisation of the economy and, of course, will actually take the man as the dominant in this process, but not at the expense of him, of the workers and of all those who live in the two regions concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u121	The Minister has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Green Agenda is indeed interesting. SYRIZA, at least as far as I am concerned, amazed us, each in his own way, when at the end of September to early October, when we discussed the contracts on hydrocarbons, which Mr Tsipras himself signed on 27 June, ten days before the elections, SYRIZA came here in September, and we had not changed a single party, and said that these contracts were not voted on by SYRIZA. Why doesn't he vote for them? Because SYRIZA is sensitive to the environment and because ELPEs are going to be privatised has no confidence in the environment and therefore does not vote for their own contracts. He just forgot a little detail, that we in ELPE continue on the route that SYRIZA himself drew. In any case, SYRIZA was thus initiated by excessive environmental sensitivity. We then proceeded and arrived a month ago at LARCO. LARCO, among the other problems it has, is blatantly violating environmental legislation, has environmental fines, does not pay what it needs for carbon dioxide emissions, infects Evia. I have neither heard any voice nor heard from the green party, the sensitive, the green left - you will also change your name - on the subject of 'LARCO'. Because ‘LARCO’ is a public undertaking and in public enterprises environmental sensitivities do not exist. Sensors exist for some private businesses. Then the days passed, and recently you held a conference, and we woke up all the Athenians here and saw the de-escalation from SYRIZA, the green party of the environment. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're laughing. Sure. This is obviously not a matter for the environment, for sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u123	A little serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I hope that what you say will be recorded in the Minutes in order for our fellow citizens to draw conclusions, how you mean your sensitivity to the environment. You consider that our sensitivity to decompensation is not a sign of seriousness and your policy is serious and progressive. You should welcome this policy, progressive and pro-environmental policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u125	For the lignites to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u126	So that's what you've done with LARCO, that's what you green people, ecologists, sensitive people, and now we're getting to lignite. The lignite literally loses the ball. First question - and will you answer it to me in your words - are you in favour of or against liberation? Because trying to keep an eye on Mr. Famello, I realized you're probably in favour. Bearing in mind the position of others, for example Mrs Vetta, I understood that you were probably against frustration because I listened to lamentations and chickens, the same lamentations and chickens I heard in Kozani, when you thought that a conference was held in the presence of the Commission, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, etc. It was pretextual, and you just wanted to protest, report us, cry and leave. So answer me that question, just to know. You are entitled to be in favour and against, I just think that, along with me, the Greek people are also entitled to know that. Secondly, do you from the SYRIZA who are in favour, want to move quickly or slowly to liberation? Because again, Mr Femello, I understand that you want to delay this. You think the government goes too fast, you want it later. That's your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u127	The point is, you're not going to liberation either quickly or late.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u128	You will be given the opportunity, Mr. Famele, to tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u129	You know I'm talking to evidence. However, while Mr Famellos - and others - wants us to go slower, your MEP, Mr Kokalis, has tabled a question to the European Parliament, to the European Commission, on the subject of PPC and competition, an issue that has been dragged too many years, which I myself could have written in at least the beginning of our negotiations with the European Commission. It refers to the competition case and it is related to lignite, saying to the European Commission, in fact, that lignite plants must be closed as soon as possible, and it even adds numbers which I, at least, have never invoked. It says that in 2019, only in 2019, due to the operation of lignite plants, PPC entered 596 million euros. I know about 300. Mr. Kokalis, your Mr. Kokalis, says 596 and says to the European Commission "What? Will we have the lignite plants open?" I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, decide what you want and then come ask questions. Decide what you want first.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u130	Play theater!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u131	Third question: do you want us to present our plan first and then talk to society, as Mr Famelos said, or do you want to talk to society first and then end up with our project, as he said a moment ago - we were all here and we heard it - Mr Drasakis? First, speak with you, speak with your components, end up with your dialog the internal what you want, and then I'd be happy to answer one and two and ten questions. That's what we've explained from the beginning. I am going beyond all these contradictions, and I am replying to individual questions, which have been raised under the umbrella of these contradictions. First question: 'The government had no design'. Yes, sir. The Prime Minister of the United Nations himself spoke about defoliation and obviously spoke for environmental reasons, which you should understand as a green party, but the green one from the SYRIZA I think can only be invoked by the panathinaians, no one else. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But he also spoke for economic reasons. The economic reasons were mentioned by Mr. Kocket in his question. PPC enters too much because of the lignite and even more in the condition that you handed it over to the "most five" of the cliff. Obviously PPC is not RWE German to bear that burden for years. It's very simple. If we let this situation continue, we will take time, the long time and tell the Greek consumers "Come to pay more to PPC, because we leave the lignites all over Europe alone". As I said 'only throughout Europe', I will tell you what is happening in other European countries, so that you too know it, that the inhabitants of western Macedonia and Megalopolis will know. In Belgium, energy from lignite has been stopped since 2016. You remember the coal mines in Belgium that were going to the Greek immigrants. Austria shall complete the denaturation within 2020, France and Sweden shall schedule it by 2022, Ireland and Italy by 2025, Finland and the Netherlands by 2029, Portugal by 2030, while Spain shall discuss degreasing even until 2025. I remind you that we are in 2028, with a PPC that is in the situation that you brought it and which I described earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u132	Germany, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u133	Germany is currently in 2038, with a RWE which flies and does not have the burdens you left in PPC, gentlemen of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u134	So it's not green.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u135	Don't rub yourself in the slut. You know very well the anxiety we had all summer to keep PPC up. From there you also say: 'And how do you mean that?' But the project is registered both in the ESRB - to coordinate the development was Mr Thomas, the Deputy Minister - and in the business plan of PPC, which has been presented...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u136	Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u137	...which one and the other have been presented since December, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u138	You can testify to us then.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u139	I suppose you were in Greece. You heard that PPC's business plan was presented at a press conference and the ESRB has been discussed and formally presented to the European Commission. What does the ESRB say? The ESRB says we will have double the share of renewable energy in the country by 2030. Renewables will reach 35%. We'll get to electricity generation at 60 percent. It is an ambitious 'green' objective. You say: The natural gas. But all those in Europe who are involved in energy know that gas will be a transition fuel. Of course it's going to be a transition fuel, but what do you prefer? Do you prefer lignite? The questions I'm asking are not rhetoric, they are. When one does not see the government opening up to renewable energies, which you might also incriminate, why would you say that individuals are doing renewable energy, so in the fire abroad, when you do not see that gas throughout Europe is a transition fuel and you blame that, then what remains of it? Defend lignite. If you don't, go out and say it, so all the evil believers who slander you against and that you're in favour of liberation. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Say it and say: "We are in favour of liberation, but we want it to go two years later", say. It's a place. Let's talk about her. But you don't. You say many and contradictory positions, which simply undermine the seriousness and credibility of your party. If you don't understand it, don't understand it. You're good for us. Of course, all of this project, PPC's ESRB and business plan, is linked to the relevant IPTO studies and analyses on the stability of the system, which is also known. I'm not revealing to you any other secrets. It is also well known that we who have no plan have made a Special Coordinating Interministerial Committee dealing with this issue since last December. There are five different Ministers, other Ministers are called co-responsible when there is a matter and there is a second committee dealing with all technical issues. We have asked the European Commission to post Mr Mousouroulis, who is here today and who is taking over as coordinator. He is a man who knows both energy and EU and investment issues. From that point on, debilitation will proceed in a coordinate manner. This committee will come up with a draft for a fair development transition which will be put into public consultation in order to achieve the maximum possible integration of proposals and ideas. I sincerely call on you, not as you did in Kozani, to report and leave, nor as you are doing today with a vendal of interrogated ideas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u140	Please do not interrupt the Minister. Those of you who are questionable will be told in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u141	When you end up with each other, I will be glad to hear your suggestions. You will come and tell us your suggestions. We're not dogmatic. If you have a proposal that is structured - one, but not many conflicting - we should be happy to talk about it. In the meantime, before we came up with this plan, we presented to Kozani and started implementing 12 direct action measures to ensure that the weather is not lost. These measures are announced. You're pretending you didn't hear them. It suits you, but the figures are stubborn and, therefore, everyone knows, at least in their areas, that there is, first of all, a package that the Committee on Regional Policy spoke about when it came here at the meeting of the Interministerial Committee, a package of European and national resources, which it itself calculates for these regions from 3.7 to 4.4 billion euros. For there to be a size class, I tell you that today's Western Macedonia's programme is 500 million. Besides, we faced the issue of lignite resource. A decision was adopted to start the allocation of funds of EUR 136 million by PPC, which is a compensation for its presence there. Don't you remember that for four and a half years you've only given 22.5? Don't you remember? Do I have to remind the "prosecutors" of SYRIZA? You're coming here and you're swinging your fingers at fighting, you keep going to the government, and at the same time you forget that while we gave 136, you only gave 22. Further, we announced the construction of 2 GW photovoltaic power parks in PPC's lignite fields in western Macedonia and about 1 GW in Megalopolis. Even more there is PPC's commitment, which will be respected. Also, ELPE, a company in which the state participates, purchased a 204 MW photovoltaic park in Kozani, the largest of Europe, which will start construction now by the end of the first half of the year, and to which three hundred jobs will be created. We encouraged the TEN to adapt its programme for the development of natural gas networks to the new data created by ligniteification and to extend the network to the municipalities of Kozani, Jordan, Florina and Amyntai in order to meet the heating needs of these municipalities. PPC will, of course, proceed with the great environmental project, as well as a project that will create too many jobs in mine restoration. As I have said before, those who are currently digging in the mines will be covering tomorrow to create artificial lakes and to plant thousands of trees, a project that will have a short-term job-creating effect, which will both upgrade the environment. But obviously you don't care, so you laugh. Your right, but we are here to judge ourselves and you and see how we were judged in the elections. You see how we're judged in polling. As long as you continue to be politically out of place and time, these will be your performance. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are making further contributions, such as the request to the European Commission for a special tax regime for the lignite regions. It is extremely important because it will create strong incentives for investment in a number of sectors in these regions. You will see in a few months that there is a strong investment interest in these regions, whose future is not only energy, but alternative agriculture, industry and services. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on like this. We want to have a channel of communication open to all interested parties, with all the parties in the House, with the regions - and the two regional directors participate in the Coordinating Committee - with the municipalities. We are talking with them, it is our obligation and we will continue to speak with them. The Deputy Minister, Thomas, both in western Macedonia and in Megalopolis, went from the first moment. I've been there for the meeting that took place in Ptolemais. Mr. Musulis will be there all the time. The government is facing this issue with particular sensitivity and seriousness, claiming even more resources from the European Union. What needs to be made clear, however, is that while the government is making this effort, not underestimating the difficulties and not overlooking all the possible obstacles that may exist, SYRIZA is coming here today and asking for this question. When? First, when the party says "where is Western Macedonia, where is Megalopolis going with ligniteification", it began to have 24 GWh of lignite production and gave 10 GWh in 2019. Where were you then? Why weren't you worried then? When you're reducing lignite electricity, is it good, but when we plan to do it, is it bad? Secondly, it is the party that, precisely because it wanted to deal with - it is assumed - the issue that was open to the European Commission with lignite, established the NOME auctions, of which PPC lost EUR 600 million. That is why you introduced them, because the European Commission said that PPC was then privileged for lignite. You did the NOME auctions, on the basis of which PPC eventually sold below its cost to its competitors, to the great interests. Thirdly, you are the party you do not want today to hear the word privatization at all, but you have tried twice - the lignite we are talking about - to privatise two lignite units of PPC. The second time - or am I not telling the truth - was a doorstepless competition. I mean, you could even take it with one euro. Of course no one has been found, because exactly Mr Kokalis, the MEP, is right that lignites put PPC in a thick place. Fourthly, you are telling us about the National Fair Transfer Fund, which you - allegedly - supported and proceed, etc. Apparently it's a shirt empty. You announced it, you took it out in consultation, but it never happened to be set up, and there is no, you never handed over such a body. He's an actor of your imagination. Fifth, PPC's lignite ending. I want you to answer that. You're criticizing the government. Where have you been for five years? While PPC owed more than EUR 100 million for lignite resource in these areas, it only gave 22. Sixthly, for the EUR 31.4 million of the Green Fund, which we all hear has become absolutely nothing to do since 2018 to implement the actions described in the relevant CSR or has it been done? In 2018, the CIA came out. Until summer 2019, you were government. No initiative to proceed with the masterplan of the Municipality of Megalopolis, as well as any general monitoring of the implementation of your announcements. Only project predictions, words and studies of empty content. They kept the money ponding in an account. We incorporate them into our overall planning together with so many others that we have now added from the Green Fund. Seventhly, for the study carried out by the World Bank for Western Macedonia, the SYRIZA government had called for a general text which did not set targets, which forced us to talk to the World Bank and to tell her to make her study faster and to be much clearer to what she would deliver. Eighth, let's go to the local level, especially for western Macedonia, because I remember Mr. Karapidis being among the protesters, your former district minister, who lost the election. He came too and protested. 'Let's go destroy Western Macedonia.' In fact, Mr. Karyapidis, who was one of the last in absorptions as long as he was a district ruler! Look at the NRW for the absorbances. You have Mr. Karapidis 500 million euros. Absorb them and then do the honor. Mr. Karapidis of SYRIZA, from elsewhere he started, to you he ended up, you hugged him, but with you, Mr. Karapidis is the one with you. When, ladies and gentlemen, your district manager does not absorb anything, you leave no plan, you do not give the money of PPC's lignite resource, your declarations of a "green" fair transition are an empty shirt, you cannot consult each other, but one says the other, you will then come and ask. It's your parliamentary right, I respect it. I am here, I answer, and then I answer, but the Greek citizens see us. I'm sorry to say you didn't choose the right field to ask. It was just an opportunity for the government to show that it has a clear green agenda, that it has a clear economic policy in relation to this issue and an opportunity to show that SYRIZA is naked. It is a party that has even now the post-traumatic shock of the elections, which suffers from untreated arrogance, which does not allow him to make the elementary self-criticism and make a measured criticism of the government, which is all that criticism - obviously - is useful. However, what you are doing today for the citizens is completely useless and exposes you to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u142	The President of the Greek Solution Mr Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully to you. I don't understand what you said. I have to tell you that none of us at least understood exactly what you want to do. And if I deal with the facts of your past, with the "Olympian" for example, I am very afraid that we will have a repetition of the same work. You're asking. Can I tell you why? It came the state that had a company, the “Olympic”, which could gain from the mismanagement of your own and PASOK, and the private investor, who is your friend from what I learn, the New Democracy, today has millions of profits and makes a huge investment of billions of euros. Instead of apologizing, because you were unable to correct the situation and someone made a monopoly - AEGEAN, for example, making millions of euros and becoming an investor of billions of euros - you are coming today because you are incapable - because that is what you say, 'we are incapable of dealing with the problem' - and you are panacea of privatization, as you say. Because for us that's not called privatisation. It's really not called privatization. It's called carbonation. You burn it all down. Wherever you pass, burn it all, you personally, say and you're the executioner of certain centres, I don't understand it, executor of orders. Bring us a plan of how we can make PPC better, have revenues, cut off - I told you next time - from the tax collectors, collecting it on every invoice, to see how it will normally get receipts from consumers and no deficits. But you don't do that, because you want her to be a collector, so you can shut her up. And after you shut it up, you'll sell it too low a price for your friends, the Germans, the company you said to be colossus, because she likes PPC, because I know it well. It gives me a special impression that on such a serious subject that SYRIZA raised it, and well put it, he's not his leader here. We are talking about energy, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about the country's energy. All parties leaders here, regardless of whether they come once a month or once in fifteen, twenty days. They should all be here. It's energy. Without energy there is no industry, development, production. There's nothing. And yet they're not. So it shows the lightness with which we are dealing with a lot of issues in here and which I really have to submit. I'm reading something that I'm sure will be a week-of-week thing from SYRIZA. Article 44 of the Law for consultation, which amends d.d. 59/2008. It's for the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u144	They took it back, I guess. But say it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u145	We'll see. I've got it in there, Mr. Felmelle. He's at "DENMARK", Minister. Photography of "ELDORANTO" for "GREEK CHRYS". They can make mining in forests, houses, where they like. No, don't gag me, Minister. If this is not a picture of the land skull left by ELDORADO from the back that have desolated the place, what is it? I've been there five times. You're far away, you don't go there, your wife is from Thessaloniki if I'm not mistaken. Go to Halkidiki, Lagada, after Asprovalta right and go to "ELDORADO" to see what she does. He's made it a cranial place! It doesn't seem anything. We are talking about people having the highest percentage in Greece in kidney disease than in water and we are sitting here and we are, frankly, enacting this - not in favour of citizens, but in favour of any best friend or friend or interest. This is not called a legacy, it's called a fast track service of capital. End of story, nothing else. Of course, I would remind the Minister that there is no evidence of stubbornness. There are people stubborn and, unfortunately, in the New Democracy you are very stubborn. You don't hear either of us or the world. Listen to your logic. You've been inviting the polls today. But you have to think about why SKAI, let's say - very good channel, like you - which makes every end of the month a poll did not make it at the end of February, but waited for the measures to be taken and made it early in March. These beans of political survival and party, if you want, tube must stop in here. We know the communication games. He's expecting a poll, 40%. Now, are we kidding? Can you believe that, too? Do you still believe in polling? Can I get you a new poll to tear all of them down? And only the question "is the Prime Minister's measures right", what can the other one tell you? Aren't the measures right? That's right. What does the citizen have to say, that measures are not right? That's right. It did not, however, ask the question 'who said the measures first'. Because we first told you the measures since July, but you did not apply them. You're stubborn! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's why you're stubborn, because since July we've been telling you, you've been doing these things again. But it's okay. So listen. You have provided data on the deprivation of many European countries, Minister. But I have not seen you say that most of these countries have nuclear energy. France has nuclear power. So what do you compare me to? We're going crazy in here! He comes and tells us about France, when France has nuclear power! Are we going to take nuclear, too, Minister? You're gonna make a nuclear plant like Turkey? I can't see it. I can see a little pale. Don't come here and use evidence. That's why you're saying the evidence is stubborn. Yeah, they're stubborn. When you say France and France have nuclear weapons or when you say about Belgium. Listen, Minister, because in Belgium my father happened to work miner, many of the lignite reserves in Belgium are over. Don't come and say things that don't apply. Greece's lignite reserves are not over. There are hundreds of billions of euros worth of it. You compare something that doesn't exist with something that exists. It is unacceptable and unacceptable that the Minister should come here and say half the truth. Not to mention Germany and RWE, the company you invoke. Find out how many scandals this company has. Why don't you look for the German company that wants to take PPC over how many scandals it has, Minister? Nor can you look where you are selling or - where you want to sell - who want to buy! Here I remember that as New Democracy and PASOK you were pleased that the Catarians made investments in Greece. And I was telling you: don't take Catalan funds, because these guys are dangerous to national security. And it turned out after years that I was right. You were glad that Qatar invested, along with Dogus, and it was Adonis my friend and he was glad to sell ports to Faliro, Lesvos. He was happy! It's not about selling and making 5 euros. The point is to know where you're giving them. Or the biggest issue is creating conditions for you to make more money as Minister. If you can't, my Minister, get up and go because a PPC can make a lot of money, and I say it as a businessman if you want. It's a monopoly, guys. When a monopoly company can't make a profit, you have a problem, not the company. But you have another habit. Because you're incapable, you want to cut your head off first, and then all of you take it off. That doesn't make sense, let me. Now, as far as the environment and energy are concerned, we're all ecologists in here. We've all become economists. First of all, I remember ten years ago about the ozone hole. The hole's gone, Minister. Where is he? Everyone was talking about the hole in the ozone. The ozone hole, the ozone hole. Listen, these fairy tales to make business some people, because it's a good business or green development, they have to stop. It's a huge business. And should I tell you something, Minister, that ends the story? Search where this story starts, the greenhouse effect. According to the UN, it begins, first, from water, second, from methane, oil, natural gas. Would you cut those too? Not to say from the contribution, as a great Nobel Prize, of cows on the planet, that cows create methane and a whole lot of things. Kill the cows too! People are smiling, but look at what the UN says, they're talking about carbon dioxide. This is the greenhouse effect. And here comes the small Greece, the small but honest Greece, to say the following unimportant. I was the first to say since 2007 that we have had gas mines, oil, Mr. Hatzidakis. You in 2012 replied to me that there were no oil, indirectly or directly, you were Minister. I was telling New Democracy - later it was PASOK - since 2009, 2010 at last do philatetization, plotting and you told me there are no oil, there is nothing we can do. So if you were to tell us that they are not there, and now they are there, you must apologise as a New Democracy. So is the PASOK, which is missing as usual. So something you didn't do well. Do not come today as guardians of morality, as guardians of politics you in the face of SYRIZA, who, of course, committed a crime with the NOMEs. They did not pay them, of course, but the Greek people. I mean, they're a little weird, too. Others say and do as government and others as opposition. It makes sense. This is how the political scene of Greece, unfortunately, is about the absurd logic of yours. Well, listen, so we can close and stay away from you. Here's a big deal. Essentially, SYRIZA's mistakes with NOME led to EUR 600 million in garbage. You made the mistake. You have not claimed, nor have you, Minister, for Dieselgate. Why don't you talk, Minister? Why is your government the only government that does not claim compensation of billions of euros for monkey cars sold to Greek drivers by Germany? Why don't you ever talk about Germany, my Minister, none of you? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Why did the other countries receive compensation? Aren't you economists here? Why? But when you're going to sell, you're galantus, you give them. When you are getting from Germany, however, you have made the "Chinese" most. The USA has claimed a $25 billion compensation from VolkSWAGEN, one company. Have you said the name ‘VOLKSWAGEN’, Minister, when do you or any Minister of the New Democracy? You dare? Oh, no. This dependence and the transporting vessels of the New Republic with Germany must therefore be eliminated. They are billions of euros that you can get, we can get for the Greek funds. We can get them. Also, you all left PPC out to produce natural gas electricity. It's just luck, too. Neither PASOK nor SYRIZA nor New Democracy did anything to get PPC into another range of gas operations. Lucky, guys. If you want to bankrupt a company, you do accidentally what you have to go bankrupt. I'm not saying it's out of the question, because if it's debatable, you have to go to jail. I'm saying it's random, it's incompetent. If they are of incapacity, you are truly dangerous to Greece though. Decide what you are. I'm telling you all this for just one reason. If you really want to go forward, you must change yourself, not your own Members, because it is not your fault, they simply vote, it is the mechanism, your ministers, the same ministers twenty-five years are the same and the same. Have you, Mr. Minister, also done a judicial investigation into the NOMEs, to blame the SYRIZA gentlemen? You said it here. A few months ago I heard you tell me that you're going to plead for court, you're going to go to court to look for what happened with NOME. You didn't do it, Minister. Why? Appointment of sins to the good children of SYRIZA or is it a gentlemen's agreement to challenge the individual, but seriously agreeing under the table? Because I see you seriously co-decide and do exactly the same. As the Prime Minister today was saying about Macedonia, which would change history, as he said in the first half of the year about the 100 billion that SYRIZA is responsible for, as you said about the 100 billion that you did nothing about.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u146	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u147	No, they said so, Mr. Poppa, you weren't the ones who said 100 billion. They said they'd take you to court. That's what they said. But either they were lying about 100 billion or they're covering you now. There's nothing else. Either they were liars or they cover up the crime that happened, one of them. I would also like to close here, in Mrs Spyraki's minutes, an announcement from the New Democracy about the NOMEs that the New Democracy will go to the courts. She was your representative, then spokesman for the New Democracy. That's who you are! [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So if you really want to talk seriously, I'll tell you something very simple and I'm closing down here after all. I won't talk about illegal immigrants...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u148	Complete, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u149	Yes, Mr. President. I'm sorry. So the Germans will burn lignite by 2038. We're in a hurry to get rid of it. Good. Greece, Germany, Poland, 1/3 of world production together with Poland, Germany therefore built seven lignite plants by 2012, Poland by 2010 had nine lignite plants, in the western Balkans, the Chinese made business in Serbia, Minister, and they get lignites. Look at that. The compensation to be paid by the Germans and the Poles is tens of billion euros and Greece is three billion euros. That's who we are. The Germans and the Polish, the rich, will get billions of euros compensation and Greece will get three, four billion dollars. And I don't know if he's gonna get it in kind, because in some sort of way they're paying us, we're native, they're giving us some biscuits and they're fooling us. Listen, Minister - and I close - I have a saying that I worship and believe it: "Firstly they ignore you, then they make fun of you, then they fight you and then the victors," Gandhi said. And I'm saying that why? Fortunately on the issue of illegal immigrants after eight months you have opened your ears a little. You'll also make a fence - of course a fence, I say a wall, it doesn't matter - and you'll do it self-evidently, you'll shield the country. Finally, Minister, on the issue of illegal immigrants you are listening. Finally, you hear the voice of reason. Finally, you listen to us, because if we listened to you, Greece would have been filled with illegal immigrants. Fortunately you hear the voice of reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u151	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u152	I will not answer Mr Velopoulos for at least the moment for his political position. I want to note one thing just for the Minutes. A few days ago on TV Mr. Velopoulos came out...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u153	I apologized! I said it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u154	...and he said that I was supposed to be part of a non-governmental organization, which is related to immigrants, of course lying, which he recognized and withdrew, but still lying. It does not lie about the so-called NGO of so-called migrants, etc., for which it is still turning into a dash on the Internet by some who are not obliged to follow my own reactions or the statements made by the New Democracy. Mr. Velopoulos goes back out today and says that I, as Minister in 2012, replied that there are no oil in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u155	I didn't say in 2012!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u156	I was not a minister in 2012. In 2012, I was Minister of Development. In May 2009 - and I call on Mr Musuroulis, because he was Secretary-General at the time - we went out and gave a press conference and we relaunched the effort that had been abandoned for a number of years to find hydrocarbons. There is the press conference, there is the evidence, there is the first draft law that we had worked out and the attempt continued and naturally intensified it. I do not understand what is pushing you, Mr. Velopoule, to return to this matter. I'm listening to you on television. I do not claim to be sinful, I do not claim that I have done everything right in my political path, other things that are clear and for which there are so clear elements I do not understand why you are questioning them. In any case, the Greek people know us all and draw their conclusions. I'm just recording them for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Velopoulou, now there's no question of dentology here, it's not a personal matter, it's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u159	It's personal! He said my name!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u160	...but in any case you have the floor for a clarification for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, you are succumbing to the Greek Solution many times and this is a little strange, but it doesn't matter whether we go to the point. Minister, have you learned what courage means? I went up there and said sorry, because the information was wrong and I am referring to the NGO. Okay? I, in my life, recognize my mistakes when I say them: 'I have made a mistake.' If this does not honor the political person, it seems because in your life you did not learn to say 'I was wrong'. You were wrong again. I told you in general about New Democracy, I did not tell you personally about 2012. I said from 2007 to 2010. And I'm not writing it, Minister, I speak from breasts and from heart and from heart. And if I was wrong on the date 2007 to 2010, and you were Minister at the time and said there were no oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u162	Where did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u163	Who are you telling? You were Minister of Government, sir! You've been a Minister since I met you. You've been a Minister. In 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, wouldn't you be Minister? I'm not talking about development or technology. You were inside the government. You were part of the government. It's not me, Minister. And I close by saying this. Indeed, the evidence is stubborn, I say it directly, because what you said has nothing to do with what I said. Honestly, I'm saying that, and I'm sorry because I have a serious man for you. You also didn't answer anything I've told you. Not in the details or in the grim details if you want me to say and apologise, I said I was wrong. I never heard you say you were wrong. ‘AEGEAN’ stands for millions of euros and closed the ‘Olympic’. I did not hear you say: 'I made a mistake.' Did you ever make a mistake? Say I made a mistake in life. You did everything right. Replies to PPC and lignites, however, you did not give me any answers. That's what I want you to tell me, the rest is personal if you want and I don't want to talk any bigger. I'm stopping here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u165	Here you go, Minister, for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, one final position. It became clear, Mr President, that I was right about what I said. Mr Velopoulos said in his position: 'Mr Hatzidakis, you refused that there is oil'. I call for my own press conference and for an initiative I have taken to launch a draft law on this subject. And for air transport you are making a huge mistake again, because while the "Olympic" was going through over 300 million, 350 million, today the state from air transport, Mr. Velopole, is gaining because of our initiative of 250 million in taxes and insurance. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u167	Who says that? Who's it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u168	I would ask the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Maria Maria - Eliza Xinoyannakopoulou, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled this topical question, precisely because we wanted to convey the great concern of the workers, the residents, the whole region of Western Macedonia, Arcadia and Megalopolis. This is an anguish and a reflection which is not limited only there. Because when we talk about our country's energy and development policy, it is also a total concern about the country's progress and its prospects, now that, after the sacrifices of the Greek people and the successful negotiation and policy of the SYRIZA government, we have come out of the memoranda and we are drawing up a new course. One would expect, Minister, today when you have come to answer this topical question, to see it as an opportunity, after you have so much confidence in your policy, to come and tell us the big plans you have. On the contrary, what did we see? We saw a minister pissed off. While we waited for it to be an opportunity for you, for you to come with confidence, tell us your plans, your schedule, instead of seeing something that is out of your character - because I've known you for many years as a very modest politician and human - talk to us with irritation. You almost fought us for exercising our rights and our obligation, which the Greek people called us as Civic Anti-Civilization. At the same time, you gave half your speech to opposition to SYRIZA, opposition to opposition. How can we take that? At least one interpretation, apparently, is that there is a embarrassment about these issues. There is one embarrassment, because you have been forced, as it turns out, to cover a communication policy and a firework by Prime Minister Mitsotakis on 23 September at the UN General Climate Session. The very day after that announcement, we happened to be with Nikos Papapas here, as rapporteur, I as Parliamentary spokesman, for the ELPE contracts, where we had set out our position to you, and for the privatisation of the ELPEs, the fear, the concern you had not committed - and yet you are not committed - to what will be the future of the ELPEs. However, we think - and here too is the beneficial function of Anti-Population - that some plans have been frozen because of that debate. I would remind you, Minister, that when we asked you the question then, they were amazed by this communication announcement from the Prime Minister in New York last day, we asked you to tell us what study has been based on. In the programming statements we had not heard anything, which was too recent, as you know, a month had elapsed. And we told you: “What is your plan? Where do you rely as a competent minister? When will you present them to the House?" In fact, you have replied and sincerely said that "we have not yet worked out the plan, we have received from SYRIZA a draft, as has been submitted, of the national energy and climate plan". You also told us, Minister, from this Step, because we were here, that we will be presenting it by December. Indeed, you were consistent. Until December you presented it. However, the day after that the Prime Minister in New York did not have anything to say, because no study, no strategic forecast and no plan had taken place. So you asked us specific questions and we will of course answer everything. You say to us: ‘Is SYRIZA in favour of liberation? But it's clear. All the Members who have spoken, but, above all, it was the clear statement of the then Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, at the European Council, where he was glad to say that Greece is choosing climate neutrality by 2050. After all, that was all our logic. As Mr Famellos said, this is why we were from the first ten countries of the European Union that brought the ratification of the Paris Agreement. Your second question was: 'Did you finally come here with the grief and cut off' - does it, as you said - 'expressed in Kosani?' Minister, is this what you call the grief and cutting of the agony of workers and people? Is that your idea?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u170	I said it to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u171	You may think they're wrong. You may have to come as a government responsible for explaining them, reassuring them. You cannot speak of 'driving and chopping'. The third question you asked us in a very pressing and intense way: 'What do you want from SYRIZA? Slower? Faster?’ But it's clear. When we say that we are in favour of deprivation, it is clear that we want the fastest possible, but on the basis of a certain prospect of sustainability. We are convinced of the frustration. We want it. It's part of our physiognomy. I, together with other colleagues, with Mr Pappas, with Mrs Vetta and Mrs Perka, who are the local MPs, have visited. The workers themselves know that there is a prospect of liberation. No one refuses that. That is what they want and their anxiety are on the basis of what plan. What will give perspective and sustainability? So it's a timely question. You also come and make one last criticism - and that was the fourth point - trying to find out now whether we have an internal topic between our positions. You said to us: ‘I mean, what do you want? There is a plan first, as Mr Famelos said, or the social front and the dialogue with society, which Mr Drasakis said?' But both. Is that possible? That's how we work. This is how the concept of a progressive left space works when it wants to bring major proposals for transformation. Of course, we do not function the way you operate: surprise, without plan, authoritarianism and no consultation and dialogue. That's what we're all about, anyway. Because we see the same things we see in western Macedonia, in proportion, we see in our islands. What do we see? It is precisely the cynicism of the local communities about their future and we see that there is no attempt to consult and dialogue. I am not saying that you are obliged to take every given dialogue and adopt it. But what a democratic liberal party, such as yours, must do, is put forward a plan and, in fact, when you say that you are a government of a state with a strong technocratic colour. Of course, you should also make the necessary social dialogue. So these are the questions you asked us. I come out in an outline, so that I do not misuse time, in the remarks you made to us. As far as the question of whether the government has a plan, on the basis of what we have heard from Mr Mitsotakis, but at least so far, you have not convinced us that there is a coordinate integrated plan, particularly for the transitional phase, this fair transition, but also the overall social prospects of these regions and, overall, I would say - for the consequences it will have on the Greek economy and on the energy balance and on the development prospects. But in what certainly, Mr Minister, it has appeared that the New Democracy has always been the prospect of privatization and specific interests that come to take advantage of your logic, which is consistent with you. That's where I can't blame you. Neo-liberal government you are, neo-liberals are the consequences you serve and exist in society. Under the type of observation you told us what PPC received because of the cost of lignite because there was no lignite deprivation. But, Minister, we need to talk about everything here, because we need to speak frankly. The Samara Government, in which you participated, doesn't it have a responsibility? Does it not have a responsibility, when so many other countries with low GDP in the European Union went and negotiated, to be able to have specific care in this regard and not to be charged to a public electricity company? You chose not to, because that was your logic towards a memorial policy as a whole: not negotiation! And you are now doing the same through this "freightwork". Your logic is: Go ahead, set a goal, without a plan, let the market and private interests go ahead. On the other hand, you come and criticized PPC when you know very well that the government of SYRIZA held it up, kept the public character, was able to reduce tariffs, finally reduced it and handed you a PPC with a reduction in its borrowing by 1.25 billion, if I remember well. And with regard to the NOMEs you said, there are, of course, the aspects that were difficult, we were in a memorial period. But don't forget - to tell the whole truth and the reality - that this was an obligation in the second memorandum. From that point on, you had not made the necessary steps and through this difficult process of negotiating 2015 and the compromise reached, which eventually got us out of the memoranda, there were, unfortunately, the tails you had left and you left. You mentioned the rest of Europe, Mr Minister, and you mentioned examples of countries. That's the evidence, as you say. No one's questioning them. But you know very well, when you talk about Belgium and other countries, that they have nuclear energy. As you also know, the other countries have not gone through the crisis and the difficulty of standing, such as our country which is now moving on. You spoke about the study of IPTO, trying to say that here there is a plan and a forecast. You know, however, very well that this study is a study that comes to put odds and assessments on the economy. And because you have made many assessments here, and you in the programme statements and Mr Stakoras when he presented the budget to us, the results of ELSTAT came out today. This proves, Minister, and I do not want to make micro-policy - that we cannot rely on such strategic plans simply to appreciate and wishful thinking. Because the results of ELSTAT - I think there has already been a comment from Mr Tsakalotos - indicate that it is currently 1% of growth in the fourth quarter, when you received 2.8% and then Mr Stagioras considered it anemic. And we have no reason to be happy. We want growth and progress in our country. What we're telling you is that the tools you've chosen are not those that will lead there. And I'll close with a phrase. We believe that there must be a plan for a fair social, economic and energy transition. And here is our deep philosophical and ideological difference. We believe that through democratic programming, with dialogue, with a project, together with society, we can move on to such a transition plan. Because, for us, productive transformation goes along with tackling the social crisis, along with the social state. It is a common battle for the social and climate crisis. You, unfortunately, go with the neoliberal concept of which you are sincere, which says the market will solve everything, and if half of society is left behind, what to do, it is a side-effect. Minister, we disagree with that. We are here to express the anguish of this world and we believe that this anxiety is the one that will give and our positive proposal in the future for a new progressive proposal for governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u172	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Arvanitides Georgios, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I must admit that you are being honest with your findings about PPC's viability. Of course, I understand your anxiety, but the question is: Or PPC saves or serves tomorrow, the green economy. Both of you can't serve them. And you were very honest in your position. Of course, PPC’s viability cannot be paid by the local residents themselves who have paid for years the need for energy in the country. I am one of them, I come from northern Greece, where these wigs who were in that region have defined the lives of thousands of people. That's the reality. It is not only these residents who can pay for the transition to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to remind all three of the elements which I represent, the progressive part I represent, spoke first with boldness and courage about the issue that we are discussing today, deprivation. Many people then smuggled us, but then they copied us and now they are forged as green pioneers, both from the left and from the right. So we welcome everyone and invite you today to listen to our proposals. Most importantly, however, I would like to hear from the inhabitants of western Macedonia, Kozani, Ptolemais, Florina and Megalopolis, the regions that, as I said, have for decades supported the need for energy in our country. They must listen carefully to us and understand that they are not all white - black, as New Democracy and SYRIZA want them to be presented and that there are alternative scenarios and proposals. Element one. I would remind you that PASOK, ten years ago, was the first party to speak boldly and courageously for green growth and wanted to link this perspective to the country's energy transition to cleaner energy sources with the HELIOS programme at that time. We were saying that we should change the energy model in our country, become the exporting country of electricity from RES. Element two. Twice, Minister, in the last six months we have tabled an amendment to strengthen the lignite regions, with 3.5% of the revenue of hydrocarbons mining, as well as the financing of environmental masters and research programmes in the new energy economy. Twice you rejected it, on the grounds that you will bring something else more complete, which we are of course still waiting for. Point 3. At the Change Movement we were the first to identify the transition in a more mild and gradual manner a year and a half ago. What we were saying at the time also applies today. We do not see why all stations should be closed by 2023. We were the first to be the only ones who since 2018 "in the Energy Passport for the Future", as we had named our plan, we spoke with numbers, considering that it would take around 200 to 300m euros annually for the next fifteen years, with emphasis on Ptolemais, Kosani and Megalopolis. This money needs to be able to change the economic activity with the preservation of the energy character of these regions, of course the safeguarding of social cohesion and the environmental restoration of the landscapes and mines. Here, ladies and gentlemen, in these three pillars, the economy, society and the environment, on which sustainable development is balanced, lies the basis of today's proposal. Faithful as part of our movement's pioneering, we are putting forward the idea of a sustainable transition clause for the regions of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. What does a sustainable transition clause mean? It means, ladies and gentlemen, that for every lignite plant and station withdrawn, the economic, social and environmental impact of this movement in the region must first be calculated and compensated. We are proposing that each withdrawal should be assessed on the basis of the overall benefit and cost for the economy, the local economy and the environment, because that is the only way we can talk about sustainable development. On the basis of this clause, therefore, and by ensuring the necessary resources for rapid development and, above all, the RES, a realistic timetable for the gradual withdrawal of lignite plants, without vibrations, without sloppiness, without haste and with a substantial environmental upgrading of these areas, can be planned, with society and local bodies confronting this timetable to the smooth transition and not with solutions coming from either outside or above. Allow me, too, to refer to five more points. First, maintaining the energy brand name of the lignite regions. These areas should remain in the energy map of the country with a different object, as an energy hub with photovoltaic installations and production units for relevant materials, with green hydrogen produced by RES and energy storage projects. Point 2, ensure that towns are equipped with district heating. What is the design that will meet the needs of all areas in remote heating? What's the price? These issues must be answered. The third concerns the renewal of land and the restoration of landscapes. There is one issue with the ownership of these areas and it needs to be clarified, Minister, so that there are no involvements tomorrow. Rehabilitation is not a grace, but an environmental obligation that must be carried out in accordance with specific environmental conditions. The fourth point is about human resources. What will people who will be out of economic activity do? Human capital has acquired skills and must be exploited. It needs to be retrained and adapted. We say yes to the gradual withdrawal of lignite units and not to the violent withdrawal of people to the margin of unemployment. Workers could be organized with appropriate incentives even in energy communities, taking advantage of their knowledge and experience, thus acting as a move to energy democracy. In Germany, for example, 42% of the installed power RES belongs to households and farmers. Fifth point is Ptolemais V, the biggest wound in history, and I know you care about it. A lot has been said about feasibility, cost, what can happen after 2028. What matters is that all the scenarios should be publicly studied and presented on the basis of cost-benefit basis for each option. That's why I'm asking, Minister, are you ready to present it? Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA plan with the sale of PPC's lignite subsidiaries to Meliti and Megalopolis failed. Unfortunately, the New Democracy is facing the lignite areas about as a side-effect. Someone wonders where the resources will be found for rehabilitation? Just yesterday in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the President said that the Green Fund, with its 2.5% cut, can allocate between 50 and 60 million. Of course, he said that it was impossible for these costs to be borne by the Green Fund. How will this frustration be done, in which all colleagues have referred to it? In Germany, costs are estimated at 1.2 per 1000MW. It's a big question, and it's a crucial one. Because you know that credibility in politics is the most important one. Because a crisis of people's confidence in what we are proposing is why we never kept them. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that the energy transition and decommissioning needs a clause for a sustainable transition to a smooth and gradual withdrawal of lignite plants in relation to the development that we achieve in the regions each time, maintenance of the energy brand name of areas with new content, safeguarding districts' district heating, full land renewal and environmental restoration of landscapes, post-training and human resources, integrated development plan and climate change specialist. Recently, in the study of the Bank of Greece on climate change, it was reported that Kozani and the region of Western Macedonia are one of the most critical areas. Only then will these regions be able to remain socially dynamic, economically active, population-sustainable blooms in a better and sustainable environment. We therefore call on you, Minister, once again without dogmatism, to adopt our proposals in favour of western Macedonia, Megalopolis and the inhabitants of these regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u174	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Zoe Raptis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the UN Summit on Climate Change in September 2019, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis spoke about the plan that the government is preparing for liberation, which will have been completed gradually by 2023, a project that is part of our environmental protection and climate change policy, a project which - let me say - you should have prepared on your own government, colleagues of SYRIZA, but you have never done so. We all know - and most of all you who have ruled - that the reasons for this transition are primarily environmental. After all, Mr Famelos, your rapporteur, has said so. However, they are also economical, as the continued increase in greenhouse gas emission rights prices made the lignite of PPC’s diamond in barley, which only cost 0.5 billion in 2018-2019. And 2020 is estimated that PPC can pay more than EUR 300 million. Further, the dramatic economic situation you have brought to PPC itself, but also the ongoing attempt to reorganise and modernise it - you know that - this promotion of liberation. The political leadership of the RIS has been in close and continuous contact with local communities since September, as it is understandable that the concerns expressed by the residents, the employees and the actors in the region are understood. And it works unnecessarily so that it can draw up a draft for a fair development transition to the post-liberal era, which I shall refer to below. Both the Minister and the Undersecretary, Mr Gerasimis Thomas, travelled to the mining areas, Amytene, Kozani, Ptolemaida. They met service actors. They met managers. They discussed with all the trade unions, workers and discussed the prospects of their work in the next period and within the new landscape. The government initially announced the national energy and climate plan, which provides for the withdrawal of all installed lignite plants, except for, until 2023, the implementation of 'green' investments of EUR 4.4 billion over a decade and the increase in the proportion of renewable energy sources in the final energy consumption to 35% by just 18% that is now. In these investments, lignite regions will play a leading role. Ptolemais V will operate with lignite by 2028 at the latest, so that the withdrawal of the units - as planned and planned - is in such a way as to ensure the stability of the electricity system and the security of the country's energy supply. In order to coordinate this transition to the post-German era, the Government - as the Minister has said in detail - has proceeded and directly to the establishment of the Interministerial Committee, led by Mr Mousouroulis, a senior European Commission official, as coordinator of this project. The committee was precisely responsible for drawing up the new framework for sustainable development in the region, which you - and I say again - did not see to it that you are working on. This plan will make use of resources - as the Minister said - 3.7 to 4.4 billion euros from the ESRB, from the Fair Transfer Fund, from the European Investment Bank and tools such as InvestEU, but also from national and private resources to finance development operations in the lignite regions of the country. Today, money from the ESDP - as has been said - for Western Macedonia does not exceed EUR 500 million. It is precisely because we want the areas where lignite plants operate today to be the models of another development. The project, drawn up, will cover eligible costs to support small and medium-sized enterprises in all sectors, rural, manufacturing and services, support research and technology actions and retraining of workers and support an energy upgrading and renewable energy programme. This plan also includes, inter alia, the construction of photovoltaic parks in western Macedonia and Megalopolis, the creation of a waste-fired power plant, the implementation of an exit voluntary programme for workers and many others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. However, it is worth wondering that SYRIZA's contradictory and hypocritical and foreign policy here in this Chamber, which is allegedly interested in the environment, is also breaking out its clothes for an environmentally harmful and expensive fuel such as lignite. Last September, SYRIZA forgets that he voted against his own contracts for hydrocarbons, arguing that mining could be harmful to the environment. He forgets that in the last decade energy generation from lignite plants has fallen from 30,000 GW to 10,000 GW and this half has been reduced over its own days. He claims that we are raped in relation to other countries. It forgets, however, that fourteen European countries have already completely stopped such functions. It also shows that PPC, as it became, cannot withstand EUR 200 to EUR 300 million a year due to the pollution caused by lignite. Finally, he asks that lignite plants remain in PPC, while he forgot that he tried twice to sell them and did not find a buyer with a single euro. But make a decision, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are with lignite or renewable energy sources. Decide whether you will be with what destroys the planet or with what ensures its viability. It is never too late to choose and make creative proposals except for brutal and premature criticism of what you have not done in the last four and a half years, that you have been in the government. Because even at the last moment you could propose all the things that will be done hereafter, instead of going ahead and blaming even the Samara government, a government which was five years before your own governance. Ladies and gentlemen, as the Prime Minister said at the 74th United Nations General Assembly, Greece must remain committed to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and in the long-term vision for a European Union that is neutral to the climate by 2050 in accordance with the European Green Agreement. To achieve these goals, the Greek government has set climate change as a key element of its agenda. To this end, we are adopting an ambitious national strategy on energy, the environment and the climate. Within the framework of this strategy we will gradually and after consulting, as I said, these lignite power plants, incorporate the European directive on the withdrawal of disposable plastics throughout the country by the end of 2021 and promote initiatives to protect our cultural heritage from the effects of adverse climatic conditions, an environmental degradation that has so far been underestimated in our country. We therefore have not only political but also moral obligation to implement substantial environmentally friendly policies, policies that will have a direct effect on the sustainable development of our country and our children. As the Prime Minister has said many times, growth will either be sustainable or there will be no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u176	Now I will give the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikos Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. And the government, as well as the Civic Antipolitics, is stepping on the thousands of playful fairy tale of the burnt earth. SYRIZA's government said it received certain commitments from the Samara government, and today the Minister said that it was the situation and the anticipation of PPC that was the government of SYRIZA. But both of you, taking the baton of governance together, take advantage of the conditions you have found to go a step further and implement anti-popular policy. From this point of view, you are accomplices to New Democracy, Change Movement, SYRIZA to anti-grass policy in the field of energy. And it is one of the most revealing areas of this cohesion. Why is the main responsibility for energy issues? The main responsibility, we say clearly, is the European Union's policy to liberalise the energy market, which all three jointly defend and implement in every way. So the consequences of liberation are given. We have a dramatic burden on people's consumption and a very large proportion of energy poverty in our country. In fact, let us take this and relate it to the fact that makes the effects of energy poverty much more dramatic, with the function that we can see in relation to the richness of the energy sources in our country and the potential of technology to meet modern folk needs. And yet, one third of the people's households live in conditions of energy poverty. Secondly, the dramatic deterioration in the position of workers. Here, too, there is the intensification, the loss of thousands of fixed jobs, but also of contract workers who were statused under the public control of both PPC and ELPE, as well as of a number of other companies in the field of networks. The third element of civil liberation is energy dependence, with an increasingly important role for imported fuel, gas. However, these are not only negative effects. There are also benefiting from this policy that has been loyally followed by all governments so far. And, of course, are the private groups that are active in the energy production or marketing sector and which, with the policies you have followed, have guaranteed the thematic profitability they present. From this point of view, we, as a JRC, regard as hypocritical the invoicing of environmental protection especially by the political representatives of the capitalist system, which first destroys the environment and then trades its protection. The pain in the environment has caught it while it's in war. However, the European Union's green agenda has multiple targets. Firstly, there must be a way out of overcompensated funds. Secondly, to speed up the liberalisation policy for the benefit of private business groups. Thirdly, to limit the European Union's degree of dependence on imported fuels and fourthly, to promote the relevant Euro-Union technology. From this point of view the choice of defoliation is your choice of all. We also stress that it will have dramatic repercussions. In other words, we are opposed to the government's plan to defoliate all aspects. Why, beware, now you say that lignite energy production is very expensive. Really, is it too expensive to produce lignite energy? However, the various taxes and the 'trade' of pollutants make this very precise. That's why KWh's price from lignite has been very accurate. It's not related to the cost of production, it's another thing. So artificially, KWh's price was more accurate. Secondly, since you are with the environment and if you want to be cheap, why don't you put in your design large hydroelectric projects? Here studies by the National Technical University say 80% of water resources are lost, which is a renewable source, and helps enrich the water supply horizon and can also be used for water and irrigation and not just for electricity production. It has multiple uses. Thirdly, since you say all this, we challenged you to bring us accountability, how much billions have been allocated in various ways to the predators of green energy for all the investment projects that have existed. How much are these billions? To see, could these have been exploited in plants that will use lignite, but with modern standards, with modern technology more environmentally friendly? Of course we could do that. But that's not your choice because you want to make it easier for business groups. The same plan is for SYRIZA, and I'm surprised. What was SYRIZA's programme in January 2019 of the Ministry of Energy and Environment? On page 14, I read: ‘Key planning priorities. Promotion of natural gas," the SYRIZA Government said, "as an intermediate fuel for the carbonisation of the energy system". That is what the New Democracy Government says. The fuel contingent and you had as a transitional stage. The New Democracy does the same. And you're taking it a step further. On page 17 of SYRIZA's plan, what does it say? It says that ‘the promotion of natural gas is carried out by means of political measures, such as, for example, liberalisation of the energy market, the introduction of tax incentives, the reduction of interconnection fees and the competitive price in relation to other fuels’. Who are you working for? For importers of natural gas and you? For the big business groups? Of course, you work for them. So we will have a problem with energy security from increasing energy dependence. Secondly, much more expensive power for the people. Thirdly, the deterioration of working conditions and the loss of thousands of jobs. But be careful. You have a joint plan. You commissioned it to the World Bank, and both of them, on how the post-ligninary period is going to be. Why are you fighting? You should rather, Minister, accept SYRIZA's proposal to create special economic zones in deprived areas, to give huge and scandalous incentives to business groups. Because that's what SYRIZA suggests, because that's why he's interested. Here too, Mr President, I am going to need another minute, and I will finish. The enormous supremacy of socialism. I read very recently about the real epic - the result of the central planning - of mass transport and the transformation of the peaceful industry into a war industry in the Soviet Union before and during World War II. That capitalism can never do, because we're talking about such a great size of change. So from this point of view, we say it clearly. The way out is not on any social front, proposed by Mr Drasakis, under a foreign flag. The foreign flag is the European Union's energy liberation policy and the interests of business groups that are jointly implemented by the New Democracy and SYRIZA. The way out is really at the struggle of the people to open up the path of real overthrow. We are fighting against government policy and energy, with the flag of tomorrow, namely socialism, and not with its flag yesterday, the return to the old state monopoly. We are fighting against the government plan to defoliate and we say that there is really hopeful and realistic way out, that both the energy needs of our family and country can be met simultaneously, as well as the protection of the environment and the health of the inhabitants, as well as the reduction of energy dependence on the country, with stable working relationships for workers in the sector and with a balanced development of all regions and sectors. But this needs a change of power. The working class needs to take the power to build socialism, so that there can really be growth for the benefit of the people and not for the benefit of the interests of business groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u178	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the heart of the matter that we are discussing here is a fair transition. A fair transition does not mean tax exemptions and tax reliefs for the unemployed, but a new development example. We agree with the restoration of the mines. We agree with the RES projects with some positions I will analyse later. But for us the heart must be to replace energy production with lignite, with other productive activities in the same region. Our proposal is for these two regions, Ptolemais and Megalopolis, to host two HUBs, two research, technology and production nodes for the transition to 100% green energy. We are pleased that the government is announcing that there is a commitment to a budget of about 4 billion for the green transition. I'm sure it's better than the 15 million previously existing. But, first of all, we wonder how they will be used, whether they will go to productive activities or simply close down the sources of the past, such as restoration, and whether they will actually come and be enough. Why are we worried, Minister? Because we've seen that your government has allergies in negotiation. It has allergies in the negotiations, whether this is about refugee, which should do right now, is go and veto every European decision until fair sharing takes place. Instead of that we hear funny things, Luxembourg will propose ten unaccompanied refugees, Innsbrook two hundred who Chancellor Kurts reject and Germany will not even pass by Parliament. We do not see the negotiation in what you announced as your main objective, the reduction of primary surpluses. Yesterday, the Minister of Development said in charge of the compensation requested by the Greek Government by the Greek Government for the fault of the Greek State for the delay in mining in Skouria, but unjustified for the compensation that the Greek Government has to claim from the Greek Government, because it is its fault that the flash-smelting method is impossible and has referred us to you for the negotiations on compensation. But in order to give compensation to "GREEK FRAMEWORK S.A." he was responsible himself. We didn't have to go to you. Also, for the Diesel scandal, if it were us to compensate the car industry in Germany, we would have done it. When we need to ask for compensation, we don't do it. Our second concern is that we do not see that you believe in productive investment. We see that you are serving great business and economic interests through the sale of ready businesses and public land. We do not see that productive investment is for you. SYRIZA is right that you're moving on to 100% private production of electricity through natural gas. Of course, his comment is inappropriate, because even if you stay in lignite, again in 100% private production you would do, since you would privatize PPC. The lack of a plan is abundant. Obviously, we must go to liberation, and we will be with you in this struggle, but without throwing down the workers in Caesarea, not with short-lived jobs. You're talking about the RES. We obviously agree to develop RES, since the agricultural land is no longer productive, cannot be restored environmentally. Our question, however, is also what will remain in local society. Will the cooperatives participate? Will the municipalities be strengthened beyond 3%, which is obviously "fly"? If these conditions do not apply, it is clear that the proposal on RES is not relevant to a fair transition. As far as gas is concerned, the use of natural gas for heating is pan-Europeanly withdrawn as a result of climate change. The ban on buildings in England has begun, there are many cities in the United States, and this is expanding. You guys look back at the past. Minings made the others in '50s, mining will also be done in '50s. Only the others did it in 1950 and we will do it in 2050 when it's over! Natural gas in Europe in 1970, gas in Greece in '30, except it was in 1970 and for us it will be in 2030, when climate change puts us on another page. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, however, we are pleased to see that it defines itself as a 'green party'. It is a statement, however, of a SYRIZA that still supports the mining of hydrocarbons, a SYRIZA that still competes with the New Democracy for who promotes and promotes the investment in the Greek, a SYRIZA that signed as a government the extension of waste incineration to Volos, a SYRIZA that promotes the illegal expansion of the HYTHA Gender at the height and extensive level and supports it on the regional council, a SYRIZA that, when it was government, did not support the demands of local environmental movements that brought him to power and disappointed and dispersed with his attitude. SYRIZA would really be welcome to join the environmental struggle and radical change of course with practical apologies to the movements. But this change is not yet apparent in the horizon. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are in favour of defoliation by a fair transition. This cannot mean unemployment and immigration. We want to replace the burning of lignite for energy production with productive activities, economic activities, which will create real jobs and real production, a real product in the region. Unfortunately, we do not see anything like this in your design. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u180	We're now entering the second grades. We will start with the honourable Members who have not exhausted their time. Please be in time and start with Mr. Famello. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have asked the government today to answer us about its plan for the lignite regions of Greece. Mr. Hatzidakis, you didn't answer us for your plan. You have spoken to us, at least in the first ten minutes, about SYRIZA, with a lot of nerves, probably because you do not come to answer the questions we are asking you - you have at least fifteen unanswered, all of which are made timely - and it seems that, firstly, Mr Mitsotakis' announcement on liberation is false - they have no plan - and, secondly, because they have made a concrete agreement with private companies to make private gas projects for electricity production. That makes you sad. But the numbers are specific. I'm saying that for Mr. Karathanasopoulos. In SYRIZA's "Energy and Climate" project SYRIZA's natural gas had only 18% participation in electricity generation and with Mr. Hatzidakis has 32%. Rejoice, but that's what you're pursuing. You tried to shadow us for our vote on hydrocarbons, which stopped your plan for the ELPEs to give down the premium on the stock exchange. You told us about LARCO. We told you that we are waiting for you, because you have made a one-year plan that will not come out of you and you want to go into bankruptcy, and we said that we wanted sustainable, long-term investment and environmental investment. If you want, let's go and bet. Then you told us about excretion. You asked us a question. We are committed, Mr Hatzidakis, to the major, which is climate neutrality. We did the first pan-European Fair Transfer Fund, which had money since 2018 and you did not use them. We have also talked about neutrality and carbonisation with a reduction in natural gas. The problem is with you, that you are not going to slow or fast defoliation. Go to the rocks. You go without a plan, so Greece doesn't have any liberation. And you have no plan for either the country or the lignite regions. We want rapid coalification and we do not want you to commit the country to private gas plants. Of course, you also questioned the ecological nature of our policy, because every day, you are stripped of your environmental profile by the diversion of Acheloos, by the fact that, apart from a press office of "ELLENIKIKI FRYS S.A.", you have now become a legal counsel and technical advice company, because it only took one day to evaluate the business plan of "ELLINIKIKI CORYS S.A.", which you did not testify to us, but it has been 12 months and you have no plan for the lignite areas. One day for the "GREEK FRYS S.A.", 12 months for the people of the lignite regions! Repeal the NATURA 2000 entities. You are almost abolishing environmental licensing. You abolished the environmental inspection. Finally, you did, for one day, suspension of a bill, which said that hydrocarbon, quarries and mines are permitted in decontamination areas. For all this, you must be ashamed, Mr. Hatzidakis, because all you have to do is close the door of the Ministry of the Environment. But I expect to see who is going to take the political responsibility for what you have posted, that the disinfection zone is allowed to allow hydrocarbons and mines and quarrying. And you took it night and that's your political defeat, Mr. Hatzidakis. I'm waiting to see who's gonna apologize. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But let's go a little bit to PPC's issues. First of all, you and Mr Kokalis, who was asking the Commission why it is asking for a report, which burdens you, to continue to divest its lignite plants, since it seems to be a burden on the coal tax. And the Commission answers that it is still waiting for the government's proposal on how to restore the disinvestment plan, the elephant in the undisclosed room. You told us that PPC is going in. We won't say too much about PPC. Our parliamentary representative said so. I mean, either you tell the truth or the CEO of PPC. I am therefore presenting in the Minutes Mr Stassis' statement that in 2020 the business plan provides for sales of 4.6 billion euros and profitability before taxes, interest, depreciation - the EBITDA, namely - 700 million euros. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is PPC finally "in" 300 million or is PPC gaining 700 million euros? One of them is a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u182	It's you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u183	Pick, Mr. Hatzidakis, if you are a liar, or if Mr. Stassis is a liar, because you cannot risk closing the units because PPC is "into" and here Mr. Stassis tells us that he has 700 million profits. If you really have business plan, Mr President, I would like to inform you that the SYRIZA MPs we are present here are submitting a request for documents to bring us the business plan of PPC, which has in place and photovoltaics, restorations, "Ptolemais V", which you have no plan. [[At this point, Member, Mr Socrates Famelos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Please tell us - I challenge you personally - if you have the necessary enthusiasm as Minister, with what fuel, at what cost, 'Ptolemais V' will operate, a project of 1.5 billion in 2028. Otherwise, you and Mr. Stassis cannot say that you are doing your job properly towards the Greek society, which expects 1.5 billion investment. Of course, Mr. Hatzidakis is trying to lie too much about PPC. We revealed that with their own governments it was charged while with our own governments and reduced the debt and reduced the cost of energy and there were special tools for social groups. Mr. Hatzidakis, what did he do? First, he told us he didn't want to panic the world, but to get ready for power breaks. Then he told us he's scared of blackouts. Then he told us that if PPC collapses, the country will collapse. What's the result? The result is 500 million on the back of Greek citizens and producers, for all professionals, for all citizens, because - notice - the programme for the liquidation of final debtors does not go ahead, the programme for the securitisation of debts does not go ahead, the natural gas programme for PPC does not go ahead and, otherwise, they go out and say that they will have 700 million profits to convince us that it has 300 million losses. Finally, are they apprentice magicians or are they just trying not to have PPC in the country to only have private natural gases, whose obviously apart from the "GREENIK FRYS S.A." are dealers and their own interests the Ministry of the Environment? Because all this has happened in our country and the institutions are aware of it and write it down, as are the unemployed in Western Macedonia and Megalopolis, because that is why we are fighting. We expect you to give us a proposal, which will not be like what you did to PPC, to abolish the PPC, to sack almost all the managers, to get the Golden Boys limos, to make Mr. Stassis' wage five times higher, to have your own people from the market, but children do not have a collective contract or the young scientists who enter. Is this your modernisation plan or is there a owner of all natural gas in the country so that network prices are also set, but also the electricity prices with the new plan that you are currently implementing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u184	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've spoken a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u185	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Hatzidakis, by closing down we will tell you that we need a plan with mobilisation of the social partners, as we have proposed and we have done. We went there in June 2018 with a suggestion, which you have no resources, that you have frozen, and the social partners there. You're the one who booked a hotel a few, but the government left. Why did self-government leave? The workers are gone. Not all of them were SYRIZA. You were left to discuss with Mr. Georgiadis on your own behalf to announce the bulldozers of the Greek, who you did not manage to put Mr. Georgiadis into them either. That's why you're judging. Investments fall, growth falls and what do you want to do? Private gas. But in your old shoes, people, Greece, the environment. The criterion we have - and we are saying it clearly - whether we are doing defence against your country or our own progressive policy is as follows: no one is left behind. Because in your own policy, the country and the lignite regions are left behind. We want a fair transition to Greece as well, a fair transition to PPC, a fair transition to lignite areas as well. That is why we must point out that you have underestimated the negotiation in Europe, because you do not guarantee with the new Fair Transfer Fund the interests of the country, because we are getting much less money than our region needs, because you also have no plan to propose this. It is a pity, Mr Hatzidakis, too bad for the Greek Ministry of the Environment and Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economics, Development and Investment and Justice have today tabled a draft law on "Integration into the Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of the Institutions of Professional Pensions (I.E.S.)". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mrs. Theophiste Perka has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u187	Minister, today you answered us in the nice way someone pretending to have failed to understand what asked him and what the matter was. I wish we could fight about who's greener. That's not what we're fighting about. Is there no dilemma 'for or are you against?'. We have said so clearly. And when? Slower, faster? There are no such questions. Yesterday. Could it have happened yesterday? But it's the problem. We cannot let any areas devastate, because the policy you are doing in general, what has been done on the islands, I can see it tomorrow in my area, that one prefecture is, let it go. There are some reports that the German company ‘RWE’ will take over the defoliation. I'd like you to deny them. Now, listen, because you told us that we were against privatization. Let's say it again. Of course, and we want private investments within a framework that respects either the environment or the public interest. However, if we end up with everything that we cannot manage - and it is clear that you cannot manage this issue either - to do so to us by an anonymous company, I fear you will give the country's governance to any anonymous company at the end. No, we don't prefer lignite. I answer you honestly. And also, we hear something grand, it's what you announced in Kosani, where, by the way, the mayors who are from your own political space had left. Photovoltaics: I said it in my prototype, but you probably didn't hear me. These want very serious studies, they want gradual implementation. There is the industrial port in Rhineland that became an innovation zone. With what material will the photovoltaics be filled with to stand? Which soils horizontally? What relief? What kind of spatial planning? And I'm reiterating the subject of differentiated precipitations, condensation. These take time, but mostly they want serious studies that are currently only announcements. That is the problem, however, which is too big. Everything's on the news level. We haven't seen anything, there's no way we can see anything. Waste burning: We heard a very nice announcement. Do you know why you're talking? Do you know that the European Commission does not select mixed waste incineration plans? But you don't know about mixed waste. And where are you going to find the secondarys that will allow them? And what does the region's EDNA say? Listen, the politics has a technical piece, it has science and it also has international experience. We cannot throw words and announcements and applaud the natives. And yet, the world of Western Macedonia has seen this, there will also be commentary. What exactly are you talking about? What's that? So how have you imagined? And instead of going to action and supporting the region, to satisfy, today is Mr Karaoglou - I have been informed - in my area, he has gone to A.Melitis, who is already closed two months - we had the self-deceptions - and he has made promises that he will force the government to see the problems of the world. I wish, welcome, if Mr Karaoglu would come and press you. You close the schools, including, in particular, the Second School of Agriculture, which, according to the study of GEOTEE, could contribute greatly to the development model strategically for certified products, for standardisation, processing. You consider that nothing. These are growth for a place. It's not a big photovoltaic, I think it's gonna be the biggest on the planet, which I don't know yet on what ground...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u188	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u189	Yeah, I'm done. And I'm reintroducing the subject of television. If it does not convince you that all of Europe bets and invests money on television, and if you in Florina - so many years you have had a great responsibility, we have said it before - now that the network is ready, you suddenly say we go back, they will get the gas homes to heat, you are making a huge mistake. In this you will find the whole society, because there are ways with different thermal loads. But district heating will work. I mean, out there things become incredible, heat from the metro turns into energy, large lakes are used, but with studies, seriously, not with announcements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u190	I would now ask Mrs Kallipe Vetta to take the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Hatzidakis, I must say that you have lost your temper today, we have not received any - but we have not received any - answers to the specific issues that we have raised either for 'Ptolemais V' or for the rehabilitations. We did not get any answers to the non-project - which you do not have a plan - we did not get any answers to the extreme, about the jobs lost and so many questions. On the contrary - and especially on my face - I can say that you have reached the point - let me say - plunder. I had another view of you, I'm a new congressman, I thought you were a moderate man. You've reached the point of plundering my face. I shall therefore reply to you, since you are very interested in my view whether I am in favour or against frustration. In fact, we have reached the popular dilemma I have heard, whether we are with the lignites or with the RES. So you are against the RES, and I can tell you in particular that Western Macedonia, Megalopoli, workers and SYRIZA are not generally reacting to defoliation. Furthermore, SYRIZA designed it to the ESRB that was submitted to the European Union in January 2019 and even paid tribute to this ESRB, the National Energy and Climate Plan. We are, however, reacting to the unprotected, violent, unfair, stiff defoliation that is being done to satisfy the private gas units and to divest the networks and energy companies in the country, which does not guarantee jobs, which does not guarantee that the current is not increased, which consumers already see the last increase that you have made up to 20% in their pockets with the last accounts that have come and also does not ensure the country's energy adequacy. SYRIZA for the ESRB of 2030, and for the fair transition and disinvestment he consulted with public post, remind you, suggestions and many public fora, while the New Democracy held this conference you said before. Indeed, it came to the point of saying - if I understood correctly, with one reservation - that it was dogmatic those who left. We inform you, Mr Hatzidakis, that the mayors and the local society who left this conference in the way they took place are not members of the SYRIZA nor the chambers that left. You did a day alone. And because you want to build an ecological profile, this collapses very quickly, because natural gas is a fossil fuel, it is a transition fuel and it is not a clearly environmentally friendly option, while it is not a country's energy adequacy in geopolitical disruptions, how much more so when it comes to increasing its price, how much more so when you change the mixture that we have chosen, that is, to go from lignite to RES, while you put private gas companies for many years. Your profile also collapses, because the World Bank, as you admit, does not incorporate in its eligible actions the lending of natural gas-related investments precisely because of the imminent withdrawal of this fuel in the years ahead. It breaks down why I would remind you that the New Democracy Members themselves recently refused to support a resolution on the Amazon forests, costing behind the Bolsonar's micropolitical and pursuits. Finally, it breaks down because, on every occasion and on every bill, the New Democracy's faith is perpetuated that the State must sweep any obstacle to attracting investment, obstacles which, for itself, are environmental, labour and archaeological legislation. And last occasion you gave us with the presentation of basic principles of the upcoming RIS bill. You said you won the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u192	Finish it, my colleague. You've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u193	Clearly it is respected - I conclude with this - that the Greek people's decision, but I would remind you again that you in your election speech have not mentioned at all the closure of lignite plants. And I hope that the regions, as they now turn your back on you, will also turn your back on you in the next election, precisely why you fooled them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u194	The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank SYRIZA for the initiative he has taken to present this question. I would like to thank him entirely - I would like to say - a party view of the New Democracy. Firstly, I would like to thank him for the style, for the lies he has made and which are so clear that everyone knows, at least the inhabitants of the lignite regions and the intensity that some of his members have adopted on the question, presenting the government about as a criminal organisation that wants to let people freeze, which does not want to leave a stone on these areas around. Secondly, I would like to thank SYRIZA for the confusion that has emerged in discussing the question both in the prototypes and in the seconds of colleagues from SYRIZA who have supported different and conflicting positions between them. I would also like to thank them for the poverty of their arguments that were such that at the end the debate was raised on other issues, as they obviously did not have anything to add to the subject of today's debate that is frustration. I'm starting from the last one to make two very brief reports. Reported by Mr Famello on environmental permits. Yeah, we want to simplify them. We do want to simplify them. We are proud that we want to simplify them. Environmental permits - the adoption of environmental conditions - last in some cases and six and eight years. Therefore, this cannot serve the country's goal of attracting new investments to lignite areas as well, for people to find jobs. Of course, it is obvious that this simplification will be made taking into account all the strict conditions of Union law, because we are a Member State of the European Union and will apply European standards. There was also criticism of the protected areas, because there was a mistake in the draft law, which was corrected within two hours because it was predicted - obviously by a mistake that also understood by a small child - that mining could take place in NATURA areas of absolute protection. In other words, one should think that we in the government are insane to believe that at the top of Olympus or Samaria Gorge we are going to mining. If you want to oppose this, thank you. The difference of the fourteen units in yesterday's poll will grow even further. Now I shall refer to PPC, which is also the subject of discussion. I shall refer to three points. It has been said - I think Mrs Xinoyanakopoulou - that we have been delivered by PPC in good condition! It was so good that the sworn assessor - I have repeatedly submitted a note in the Minutes - said last spring that there is a problem of sustainability in PPC. What else can one say and what other certificate to produce to show the tragic mess of the operation! It was also said that the NOMEs were supposedly agreed. It has been said too many times. I've brought the laws. I've brought SYRIZA's decisions. I've shown that NOMEs started to apply in 2016. Who was government in 2016? Was it us and we'd forgotten about it? In addition, Mr Famelos - and indeed in a political theatrical performance - has asked for information to be submitted, referring to two figures which have nothing to do with each other. He said: “Who is telling the truth? Hatzidakis, who says that PPC entered through the lignites 300m euros in 2019, or Stassis, the CEO of PPC, who says that PPC will have pre-taxes and depreciations in 2020 700m euros.” But it's obvious to a kid who goes to high school that it's one thing and the other. I'm talking about the damage he has only from the lignite plants in one part of his action, and Mr. Stassis talks about the whole operation. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] It puts the whole operation of PPC in, and even speaks of a different year. So we will provide them to you with the documents to keep them in your file, to make your self-criticism perhaps sometime, about what you're sitting down and say from here the Stepma and even bragging. I shall refer to defoliation, because here you have overcome yourself. I will only stand by two examples. It says, therefore, that Mr Famelos - and I will refer to Mr Famelos and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou - is 'We want climate neutrality in 2050...' - all right, we want climate neutrality in 2050 - '... and we want rapid carbonisation'. Congratulations! What does the term 'carbonisation' mean in Greece? What does it mean? It means defoliation, because the only fuel that exists in this category is lignite.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u196	And natural gas. Don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u197	Don't interrupt, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u198	So you too want to go to liberation and we have some differences in the years. But here I am going to the second point made by Mrs Xeno-Giannakopoulos, which says: 'What are you asking us? What do we believe in SYRIZA? We want a reasonable timetable of defoliation. Yes, sir. In fact, I did not expect Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou to come and say 'We believe in an unreasonable timetable for privatization'. We all want a reasonable schedule. But what is that reasonable? And why are you keeping this from us? And we, well, say we're amateurs, analgesics, and we want the world to freeze and everything else. You who are reasonable and progressive and do not want the world to freeze, but you want to warm it up, because you keep it secretly this timeline and you don't tell us "Find little children, you say about 2023, except "Ptolemais 5V" that we want to take in 2028." That's what we say. Good. You who believe in the logical timetable, tell us and we are not excluded, you know, to listen to this seven-sealed secret that you have kept well guarded so far. Say, please... [[Noise - Protests from the Wing of SYRIZA]] I think you've got one more round of placements. Here we are listening to you, the progressive party of the country, which brings one progressive position after the other. Tell us what your position is. I would like to go on and say that obviously, on the side of SYRIZA, there was a past - and there is still a lack of plan for liberation. There are only blurred discussions and screams with no meaning and no resonance, of course in the local society. From there on, apart from all the things I told you at first, because in your seconds you have especially stood in your environmental sensitivity, I want to dedicate you with love two more achievements, which really show how green you are. The first green achievement, in addition to the previous ones, is known and, please question it. With your own governance, you had lignite power plants in operation by environmental approval decisions - for these conditions that you previously accused us of wanting to abolish them and so on - which have expired! You're gonna say, "Good, good, good," aren't you? I'm on it. The environmental conditions of Megalopolis 3 and 4 should have been issued by 2016. Finally issued in 2017, they came to the Council of State because they were late and in 2019 on our own government, the problem was solved by the extradition of new GDP. A second achievement of 'green' governance and the 'green' left is the following: you had lignite units operating over the operating hours provided for in the European Emissions Regulations, that is, from what the European Union is supposed to say, to which we are supposed to be exposed, and you have not been exposed all of this. You remember, I imagine, the Commission's warning letter to refer to the Court of Justice following Mr Stathakis' decision to extend the operation of Amyntai and Heart, i.e. the oldest and most polluting units. These are very specific and I challenge you to deny them. I challenge you to deny them to the Green Left! Because you say and say again that you have not tabled any proposals throughout the entire debate we have had here - and it is a unique achievement to speak so long and not to bring about a single proposal, the Change Movement at least tabled some things, you from the SYRIZA at all - I read you in titles what we want to implement - and we have started some of them - until the master plan is drawn up, the whole plan that we will present in the summer of June. I am telling them about the Minutes, to be clear to the last citizen who has not heard them: First, the return of PPC's lignite resource of EUR 136 million for the period 2015-2018, what you did not give. Second, construction of 2GW photovoltaic parks in the lignite fields PPC in western Macedonia and 1GW in Megalopolis. Third, the ELPE agreement with the German UV to build the largest photovoltaic power station in Greece of 205 MW in the Kosani region. Fourth, voluntary exit program for PPC employees, self-financed voluntary exit, fully scheduled and present on PPC's business plan. Fifthly, a rapid start to work on the restoration of lignite works in view of activity - bridge, especially for contractors. Sixth, development of natural gas-heating networks. Seventh, adaptation of spatial planning to planned land use. Eighth, PPC's discount tariff for lignite areas is maintained because you said that we would abolish it. Ninth, a grant of EUR 60 million from the 'green' fund. Tenthly, the creation of a power plant for waste in cooperation with the local PHASE. Eleventh, upgrade the role of the University of Western Macedonia. Twelfth, special tax incentives and tax exemptions in consultation with the European Commission. Third, a programme of national and European resources of between EUR 3.7 and 4.4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA in particular, please either today - I think you still have some positions - either whenever you think or find time, tell us what you disagree with all that we have said...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u199	Everything, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u200	... with what you may agree - you may even agree to something - and even if you disagree with everything, you have an obligation on your voters primarily, so that you do not mock them with such great political hypocrisy, go out and say "we as SYRIZA, the "green Left" of Panathinaikos" - because I see no place else - "We propose one, two, four, five, to compare our own proposals with yours, because at the moment we are 12-0, twelve proposals, none of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u201	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have listened with great interest to you and you must be aware that, just as all SYRIZA colleagues have told you, this question was a product of the particular concern that comes from the region of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis, you must know that our debate has been followed with great interest by the people and workers in PPC and I am sure the self-government factors and in general the world in these areas, because that is precisely the role of the House and the Civilian Opposition. Because I think you a little confused the roles, you know, we're the Opposition and we're controlling you. We have this mandate from the Greek people. We had tabled our plan when we were government and our commitments, and then former Prime Minister Tsipras told you what he had said about climate neutrality and our draft for the national energy and climate plan. You have not taken this into account in the programming statements that we have heard here. Prime Minister Mitsotakis came on 23 September and made a firework without prior preparation, without dialogue, without study, without a given plan. You have an obligation, you rule, you control, you invite us to convince us that there is a plan. So what did we understand, Minister, today and I imagine that this is what the world is fighting and following our debate? That you then rushed to work to find and cover this communication "freight" which was possibly based on some impressions that you wanted to cultivate, possibly in the logic that we said before privatisations and enter individuals in natural gas and all that you said before, and in fact you came here and repeated some of these measures in fragmentation, but a comprehensive economic and social impact assessment plan, we at least did not hear today and have not seen. You brought us some suggestions. You told us about a master plan coming in June and you actually told us titles on it. Of course, June is almost one year after Mr Mitsotakis' "freightmaker". From there on, it is clear that we have different approaches. That's fair. We understand your understanding, because when you talk about PPC, you left behind the logic of "little" PPC, privatization. I referred to Mr Samaras, not because we want to make a paradoxical, because when you come here and talk about the costs PPC has from lignite, you know very well - because that is the reality in Europe - that if the Samaras government had shoved away, as many Eastern countries with low GDP, much more that we were, and under crisis, getting discharges, would have been very different. Nevertheless, we kept PPC up. As for the sworn accountant you said, there was a corresponding estimate in spring - as you know very well why you are following the issues - that if measures were not taken there would be a matter, and then PPC's administration took these measures, and that is why you found a PPC, as I am referring to - and that is what I am saying - and that is something that you are not questioning - with a loan reduced by 1.25 billion and with a perspective that at least a sworn accountant to whom you are referring in the summer made a typical accounting assessment in accordance with the Accounting Code. Of course, the evidence Mr Famelos has told you is evidence provided by PPC's administration, which shows that there is no damage, but the year is closed with profits and of course it has costs. What's the difference? That we in the European context, when the energy markets opened up, as you know, had guaranteed the possibility of public service interests and the possibility of public undertakings operating, provided that they operate with some basic principles such as competition, as was the social map, there were collective negotiations, there were a number of such issues. Unfortunately, Europe itself has frozen it to some extent, but it is clear that your own government does not even want to make use of it. However, we are making use of all this because we have believed since we came out of the memoranda that the collective negotiations and the sectoral convention and the employment rights of PPC, which you have at the moment, have been neglecting, because we really believe - and that is what all SYRIZA colleagues have said - had to come back to a fair transition at the moment. I didn't just say a reasonable schedule. I said reasonable, sustainable programme, a sustainable, fair transition strategy that should have for us and a strong public policy. He wants democratic planning, he wants social dialogue. Mrs Vette said quite rightly before, who is a Member of our Parliament in Kosani, that of all those accused of leaving, few are members of the SYRIZA. Most of them are your executives. This shows that we are not doing any populism here. We transfer a genuine agony after all - if you have not succeeded in persuading your own members with this "firework" by Mr. Mitsotakis, I think you have a problem both with the Greek people and with the internal problems within your party. In any case, we consider this question to be useful for democracy and that is our role. But don't talk to us in response to the polls. Even with the pure commandment of self - power, the grace period is over. You've been closing down eight months in government. You are judged on the basis of your work, your results and from there on, I wish this democratic process would prompt you to have a real dialogue with local bodies, workers and see a little different things in the prospect of actually presenting a comprehensive plan, and here we are to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for his tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u204	We're closing in under the Rules of Procedure. Everything has been said. I shall make two very brief comments, commenting on what Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said. Firstly, in relation to PPC, the auditor was himself in March - April last year and he was himself in September. The same methodology was followed in one case and in the other case, i.e. it took into account the company's data, the administration's data. In the first case, PPC said that PPC has a question of sustainability and - I am passing away - the previous administration has not taken any measures since the elections. You may have hampered her as a government. It did not, however, receive the dramatic problem in the summer. In the other case, in September the sworn accountant said that PPC had exceeded the viability problem. He didn't say he was in rose gardens, but he said he was overcoming the problem of sustainability. That's undeniable. Aren't you going to say it a thousand times? The more you say it, the more you are exposed. Secondly, I also think from the final position of your parliamentary representative, you have no proposal. No suggestions! I'm really impressed. I'm really impressed! You came here to blame the government. Very well. You are opposition, you must control us, we are not infallible, your institutional role is. But we're here, three and a half hours. Three and a half hours! We said what we'd do. You don't like it very well. We have said that we will also come to broaden it with the master plan, which we will present by the summer. I have presented to you the twelve measures that we meanwhile have begun to implement. You have not presented a proposal, half! Half! You're a party of Officer Opposition, you're a party progressive - you say you're progressive - and you ruled until a few months ago. And for the price of guns, get in touch with each other, you had to bring three suggestions. We don't know everything. Three sentences! We have lived through this reaction, obviously, because you have had a lot of arguments in Kozani, you have come, you have denounced us and you have gone and you have come here today to report us again. Since, however, the debate is organised here, the impoverishment of your arguments and the differences of opinion between you have appeared. People now compare: The green left which is a bit black in lignite and we have a plan, which follows good European practices. We didn't find the wheel. We see what is happening in other European countries, we work with European institutions, we are talking specifically about the European Commission and we will also be supporting funding from Community and national resources. We will do all we have said so that western Macedonia and Megalopolis have a fair transition, have a future, have a European future after lignite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on item number 14/8/20-2-2020 of a topical question to the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we should resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-06-S1-commons.u206	With the consent of this House at 16.40 p.m. the sitting on Monday, 9 March, 2020, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
