ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to make two announcements to this House. The Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Tourism, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport submitted on 18 July 2020 draft laws: ‘Forum interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporate into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2018/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475 a public contribution to repay loans for stricken borrowers due to the adverse effects of the CIVID disease law -19 and other provisions’. The Members of Parliament, and so on. Maximos Charakopoulos, Dora Bakoyannis, George Katrugalos, George Papandreou, Fotinis Bakakimas, Athanasios Zebilis, Dimitrios Kiridis, Panagis Kapatos, Eftathios Konstantinidis, Fotinis Pipilos, Theodoros Rousopoulos, Euripides Stylianidis, Angelos Tsigris, Anastasios Hatzidis, Nina Kasimatis, George Papaliou, Alexandros Triantafylidis, Socrates Femelos and George Psychoygios tabled a proposal today: ‘The harmonisation of national provisions with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights (E.D.D.)’ the adoption of a special legal instrument on detention conditions in the penitentiary’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House in writing that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: The numbers. Questions Nos 909/10-7-2020 and 93/13-7-2020 6537/15/2020 question in the circle of petitions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The numbers. 919/13-7-2020, 920/13-7-2020, 921/13-7-2020 and 923/13-7-2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. The numbers. Questions Nos 908/10-7-20, 910/10-7-2020 and 926/13-7-2020 Question No 6743-22-5-2020 (Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. We begin with the first with number 909/10-7-2020 and the second question from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Heavy the footprint of the coronary crisis in the world of work in Magnesia". The question will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutz. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, about four months ago, if I'm not cheating, we had a debate in this House together on this matter. I had retained at that time that you urged us to be patient because the conditions were exceptional - and they remain exceptional - and you had completed your speech that you would or would have developed policies which would be relevant in terms of the wave of unemployment that is plagued by Magnesia. But, Minister, today we are actually talking about the footprint of the coronary crisis is too heavy, not only of the pandemic, but also of the policies that you have so far developed. On 25 June the OAED Regional Directorate in Thessaly published the analytical data per municipality in the regional units. On the basis of official evidence, Mr Minister, Magnesia records a record of twenty-five thousand three hundred unemployed. Compared to August 2019 where it was nineteen thousand five hundred eighty-seven, today it has been launched to twenty thousand sixty-one. And that's all on Volos' urban web. In the other areas, the Municipality of Almyros counts one hundred and fifty two, the market of three hundred and twenty-six, the south of Pelion, six hundred fourteen, the municipality of Riga Ferraios eight hundred forty-nine, the Alonissos two hundred nine, the Skiathos one thousand two hundred twenty and the Skopelos three hundred sixty-nine. And as if that were not enough, Minister, private wages have now been formed at extremely low levels. I can only say to you that, again on the same footing, one in two workers in Magnesia, that is about 50%, receive a salary of less than EUR 800, while the rise in flexible forms of employment is almost 50% squeeze on the income of workers. We have proposed you from the start of this health crisis to work both preventive and forward-looking, to subsidise both wage costs and insurance costs. At the same time, we have proposed that you establish the extraordinary solidarity income for all the vulnerable groups, but also for all the citizens who have suffered huge losses in their income. Finally, for businesses, Mr Brutsi, we have again proposed the introduction of non-refundable aid, provided that all workers are maintained, as well as the permanent reduction of tax advances to 50%. So on the basis of what I have just said, and I believe that you do not question them, two very simple questions are, in my opinion, formed, Mr Brutsi. Is there a design on the part of the Ministry of Labour in order to intervene at the level of Magnesia, as well as at the level of Hellenistics, in order to bring about a real halt to this unemployment wave that exists? And secondly, Mr Brutsi, do you intend, not just to adopt some of the proposals, but to understand the seriousness and depth of the proposals made to you by Civicism, so that even now, even slowly, you can act aheadly in terms of the resurgence of the pandemic's consequences?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Meikopoulou, I understand your question as well, and as a local MP who is elected in Magnesia, you are fighting for your prefecture, for the people of Magnesia, like every Member in this Chamber. However, I must tell you that, as regards what we described today as a situation in your prefecture, I cannot deny the generality that exists, the general picture which is not the best, nor the one that we wanted, nor the one that the economy and the labour market had started before the crisis. Only someone behind his finger can say that things could have been shaped on the basis of specific policies, as if they hadn't touched the economy or the labour market something. Unfortunately, Mr Meikopoulou, the reality is that the crisis leaves a deeply negative footprint on both the economy and the labour market. This is not defeated, but it is dealt with. And the government is well aware that it has exhausted all its potential to cover these areas of people, in your territory and in your prefecture, in various ways, either by strengthening insurance contributions and covering them fully, either by suspending contracts of employment and covering wage costs, or by political programmes - which I will mention shortly - which are already in progress and others are running to cover those areas of the world which are facing problems. Unfortunately, Mr Meikopoulou, it is a situation that is not dealt with either with wishing or with good ideas or with good words, but is a battle in practice. The resources are also specific to those that we have, Madam President, we are trying to make them the best possible. I have here in my written answer to your timely question a number of initiatives that we have taken, whether they relate to the 'CONTRODUCTION' programme, which we finance and give 84% to 100% of the workers in order to avoid losing jobs. We have the policies, which concern the world of tourism, the world of seasonal work, which we cover almost all of us here. But now I do not want to repeat this because it is already known, people are experiencing it, they know that the government is fighting and we have so far fought against the entire Greek community of workers and the unemployed in a way that can be described as doing our best. In other words, we have also covered unemployment benefits and unemployed and long-term unemployed, workers with wage costs and insurance contributions. It is a policy that we will continue in the next period, so that no worker is left unprotected. As far as your region is concerned, I for Magnesia have, through the innovative tool called 'ERGAN', seen as having three thousand nine hundred ninety-two hirings in June, and over two thousand four hundred sixty-sixty-one departures have had a positive balance surplus of nine hundred thirty-one, namely more jobs for the month of June. And for the whole six months we had 12 thousand nine hundred seventy-seven two recruitment announcements and finally after the description and voluntary departures and redundancies, we had seventy-seven thousand eighty-seven thousand positive positions. Of course we are not satisfied with that. If the economy were to flow normally, if tourism were to flow - and I am personally from an area that I am elected as a Member of Parliament, the Cyclades Prefecture that lives from tourism - it would be quite different. We must, however, all united together, deal with this crisis. Thank you very much, and I will come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I have listened very carefully and I will try to answer you with a few comments. Let's at least start where we agree. I think that with the pandemic we've experienced, it's collapsed too many stereotypes of the past. The first stereotype was that the labour market can be self-regulation, but, Mr Brutsi, it does not regulate itself. The second is the demonisation of state intervention, because you yourself see that state intervention, public intervention on the labour market, is more necessary than ever in order to bring about a halt to this wave. On the second point, I imagine you will agree, because you very much love polling. You saw that in the latest MRB survey 49.3% of the citizens consider that this state of unemployment is the first problem. So you understand the issue of unemployment and the search for work, if you like, is first in the discussions between the citizens. The third point I would like to make is that you know very well, Mr Brutsi, from EUROSTAT that there is a virtual picture because of the unprecedented measures that this government has been called upon to take. Because you know very well that all people and all the workers who are currently in employment are counted as employees. The suspension of work, Mr Brutsi, I do not think it is compared to a decent and well-paid job. The second - and you know that very well - is that there is too much unemployed a world that has now been transferred to the non-active population, because it could not find work during the pandemic and afterward. I give you the example of Magnesia, Mr Brutsi, because it is representative. On the one hand, it is an economy that is mainly based on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. There's an island complex. There is tourism. Let me tell you that for this summer, for this tourist season about three thousand people in Magnesia have not found a job. I don't know where you found these facts and how you're reading them. However, I must inform you that in the discussions I have been having with all the new world, this climate has come back again that "either I will look for work in Athens or I will leave abroad" from people who have been working until beforehand. So, Mr. Brutsi, I'm not talking about wishing. I do not doubt that the recession has to do much with objective factors such as pandemic. But how it faces its size, how overwhelming it will be, depends on what the state does or what it does not. So far, Mr Brutsi, don't tell me that with the single sum of EUR 400 that you gave to the long-term unemployed, and they got sixty-eight thousand, while their total is five hundred and twenty-thousand, you have dealt positively with what these people are going to experience and then what they will experience. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, in what I'm trying to stir up the risk bell, I'm not talking about wishing or doing a sterile opposition. I would point out, however, that the image of Magnesia, which, in my opinion, is representative, as well as for all of Greece, because it combines various sectors of the labour market, is very disappointing. I want you to tell us here: First, what programmes are you planning for the level of Magnesia for the next period? How is it possible for all these people, especially in the autumn that they will come, which is not a tourist season for the city, to be able to work. For, Mr Brutsi, in fact, next time, we will not talk about stirring things up, but about how we will be able to deal with a situation that refers to an image of 2012 and 2013. I hope that you do not have your logic of returning to those images at those times, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Micopulus, you refer to a 'MRB' survey. Not only 'MRB', but all the polls - I will agree with you - show that the world's anguish is primarily in the area of unemployment. And that is absolutely justified, because people are seeing around it an economy that is facing serious problems, not because of wrong economic policy or decisions, but because of pandemic. As regards what you said - and I will not agree with you here - that many people are thinking of leaving abroad, I have another picture. No one thinks about it anymore. A lot of people are thinking of coming back. Because you do not have a global economy that goes well, it is strong and a Greece that is not going well. At the moment the whole world economy has been shattered. So no young or any human age in our country can see as a positive prospect to go abroad. I guess the opposite. Because our country is a safe country, at least as compared to the other countries, as it faced the coronary and pandemic, and it is a country that gives prospects, gives hope that it is Greece, with its characteristics, with its positive effects and its weaknesses. So there's no torque, as you said, for abroad. On the contrary. Mr Meikopoulou, I consider you to be one of the serious Members, and I would like to say that because always the enemy of good is the best, you could say that we could make more money, make more money available, that the EUR 534 we gave in the second package is not enough, or that the first wages we gave as a whole and the Greek state covered them with all the insurance contributions. Everyone can always tell in the mill most of them what they want. However, those who govern and have the floor for responsibility, whether in the Ministry of Finance, in the budget policy, either the General Accounting Office of the State, or the Ministry of Labour, as I am the Minister of Labour who handles the social budget, let me tell you - and believe in that - that we are doing everything possible where we can. For let us not forget that there are also limits of tolerance in the economy, fiscally they are issues which we cannot overcome, and we have in front of us a autumn which - I will agree with you - raise a great many questions in relation to the pandemic and its evolution. Here, indeed, we must all unite to deal with this big problem, because it is not a matter of parties. It is a national issue that is currently threatening our country, as is the case with the whole world. Now, we - I told you in my protology - are doing too much. Several times timely questions have been recorded. I would like to take this opportunity to say to you a few programmes which we are currently planning and asked about and which concern Magnesia. Because policies can not only be targeted for Magnesia, they are for the whole territory, but also for the unemployed and the workers of Magnesia. For example, a business grant programme for the employment of six thousand unemployed aged thirty-nine graduates of higher education in smart specialisation sectors. Business grants and general employers' grants programme for employment and training ten thousand beneficiaries of reintegration into the labour market. Enterprise grant programme for employment totalling fifteen thousand unemployed over forty-five years. Business grants for the employment of tens of thousands of unemployed young people aged eighteen to twenty-nine years, focusing on graduates in university and technology establishments. A grant programme for enterprises and public sector bodies as defined in Article 51 of Law 1892/90 of local authorities I and II, regions and municipalities, under Law 3852/10, which regularly engage in economic activity for the long-term unemployed of fifty-five to sixty-seven years. In addition, there are many more projects being planned and implemented by the final structure of the ESRB and we have much more. I just want to tell you that there are too many programmes which give too many young people the chance. The latter is public service work, which is already at a mobilisation stage for thirty-six thousand five hundred workers in municipalities and regions. There are many programs, Mr. Meikopoulou. They're enough? Answer, no. But we are making every effort, because as you know from the SYRIZA mandate to the government, despite the fact that you are making programmes, not everything is absorbed as attractive as it is to the extent of subsidies and non-wage and non-wage costs, if there is no demand underneath. In any case, I would like to say to you that we will do our utmost, as far as possible, where the financial capacity of the country with programmes, with interventions, with wage and non-wage costs, as we have so far done for all of Greece, for all the workers, for all the unemployed and for Magnesia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u9	Me too, Minister. We move on to the debate on the second, with number 930/13-7-2020, a topical question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To subject the tourist bus drivers of Crete to the labour regime arising from the local sector TSE". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. My fellow Member, Mr Synthetakis, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, for an additional twenty years, workers drivers of the tourist buses of Crete enter into with employers' organizations in the tourist industry, local collective labour contracts of annual validity, which defines the conditions for the remuneration of drivers. On 31 March 2020, the applicable local collective agreement, which is considered compulsory, was concluded and the regulatory conditions of this contract continue to apply for a further three months after the expiry of the contract, so that no gap arises after its expiry and until the new local collective agreement is concluded. What does that mean? As of 1 April, the collective agreement expired, for a further three-month period, necessary for the negotiations for the conclusion of the new contract. However, given the restrictive measures due to a pandemic, it was impossible to start negotiations with the employer, precisely because the companies had been suspended. Today and in spite of the opening up of tourism, as the government advertises, employers refuse to sign a local sectoral collective agreement the same as the one which expired on 30 June, referring them to the national collective labour agreement, so that workers lose a number of rights and conquests. You will tell me, slowly, that the employers do not comply with the agreements, their interest is above all. The result, however, is the approximately five hundred guides of the tourist buses of Crete to be in a real stalemate, facing the risk of dramatic worsening their working relations, condemning living with the 534 euros for the next period. Their rage is so great that they are in a steady mood that on the 20th day of their strikes, despite the strike mechanism set up by the employer, and even with hours exceeding eight hours, they reach up to twelve hours at the wheel, putting the safety of both the workers and the tourists at risk. The Government therefore has serious responsibilities for this attitude, it is its responsibility and does nothing but legislate by legislative acts on behalf of the employer as a whole and to distribute to workers and the consequences for the transport of tourists. So we ask you, Minister: why have you ignored this fair and self-evident request from the workers, even though the Association of Mercury Drivers, which I shall present to you in the Minutes, has, of course, sent you a letter from the Association of Mercury Drivers? If you wish, you could, with your own intervention, ministerial decision or legislative act, which you have 'caramella', of course, obliges employers to apply even when it is compulsory for the industry, the last local collective labour contract, in order to avoid the complete dismantling of industrial relations in the industry. That's the question I'm asking you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u11	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Synthyriakis, I would like you not to go quickly and say why I did not answer you because you raise a broader issue, which I shall answer specifically, with particulars, which I cannot cover from my prototype. I have to describe a account of what happens with collective agreements, with trade union law, what limitations are there for the Minister of Labour and what free collective negotiations are. I would therefore like you to listen carefully to me, Mr Synthraki, because I recognise your interest in this local trade union organisation in Heraklion, Crete, which is the area where you are elected. I would therefore like to begin by saying: Trade union freedom is a fundamental right of workers, which is explicitly protected by our Constitution, but also by international conventions and conditions which bind our country. Trade union freedom is a dynamic composition of the right to free establishment and participation in trade unions, the right to free collective bargaining, working conditions and collective bargaining - the TSE, as we say for a short time - and the right to collective action and mobilisation to protect labour interests and to promote labour claims in terms of collectiveness and solidarity. The collective agreements define the terms of employment and the terms of employment of the parties to each other. The terms and procedures of the TSE are governed by Law No 1876/1990. The TSEs shall complement the general terms of work, which are regulated by the relevant laws and are guaranteed by the Constitution. They shall lay down the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties, define matters relating to the procedures and conditions of collective bargaining, mediation and arbitration. The TSEs normally adopt more favourable working conditions than those laid down in the existing legislation. The TSE's validity is extended by law for a period of three months after the termination or termination, in order to facilitate collective bargaining, to protect workers until a new collective labour contract is concluded. In other words, what is provided for in a collective labour agreement is still under the law for a period of three months after its expiry. In any event, where a new TSE cannot be achieved, after the quarter, workers are covered in the context of rehearsal, as the conditions relating, firstly, to basic wages or basic wages, secondly, to four maturities, children, studies and dangerous work remain applicable under the rules provided for in the collective labour agreement concluded or terminated. At this point I would remind you that in the context of emergency measures to deal with the health crisis, the Ministry of Labour specifically referred to collective labour agreements, so that no worker would remain outside the protective framework. The health crisis with multiple consequences on the country's national economy and labour market left no room for collective bargaining in order to conclude new collective agreements in the event of their termination. That is why, by legislative provision, in the legislative act of 1 May 2020, we extended until 30 June the duration of all those collective agreements whose quarterly extension expired within the period from 29 February 2020 to 30 April 2020. I'm coming back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, the Minister, all right, said he would not be able to make any progress on the prototype and read us what is provided for in the collective agreements. The question, however, is not raised by the Communist Party of Greece. The Communist Party of Greece adopts it, brings it to a debate here in plenary, and workers are asking for a very concrete and clear answer. There is a local sectoral collective labour agreement. It took the extension of three months until 30 June 2020. Employers refuse to renew the collective agreement on the basis of employees' acquired assets. So here we say that employers are either seeking the national general collective labour agreement or working as a transfer, that is, depending on how many customers there is within the coach, how many tourists. Is it ten? They'll be paid on the basis of the ten tourists. Will it be fifteen? Will it be 20? It's not gonna be anyone? They're sending them home? This is what employers demand, which means a vertical fall in guaranteed wages on the basis of the local sectoral labour contract. What are you disgusting about? And the question is: is the government prepared to support workers and wages, employment, pension rights? The employer obviously found the opportunity to unravel out in the workplace, not only the agents in the tourist buses, but also in the tourism sector as a whole. Employers - be careful - in the coach field, tourist buses hamper drivers by throwing the ball of responsibilities to each other. They say, 'If one agrees, I will agree.' Obviously, none of them are going to agree. They are throwing time and everyone together has the same uncompromising attitude, assuming that in this way they will eliminate workers psychologically and economically to subdue to their anti-government requirements, which, of course, turns them back to the Middle Ages to get rid of the workers - that is what they want - with built-in rights, trying to circumvent existing collective labour agreements. It is therefore a plan for the complete bridging of sectoral collective agreements and the further hit of the trade union organisation which you are referring to. Because in words you can build up high and low, but the employers have built their property from the workers' sweat, and today they want to protect their property by pressing on the employment rights of those people who worked and fought to make their property. So I come back to the question and you must be very clear in your answer. That's what the workers expect. And from there, of course, we're all judged. Are you willing to press? You have the knife and the melon. Find the way in which the same local general collective agreement of employment was in force and ensure that all the wage and pension rights resulting therefrom are not changed in their employment relationships. Any change that helps employers and their profits and loses workers by immersing their working future and turning them back to the Middle Ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u15	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u16	Mr Colleagues, Mr Colleague, I will answer you in concrete terms. But allow me, because you have made an ideological reference, representing both the Communist Party and your views, to tell you that you have a class conception. You are only constantly talking about workers and nothing else. In other words, you are describing a country, an economy in which there is no business, all being state-owned, and no private initiative. I shall simply say to you, there is nowhere in the world, Madam President, such a model as is said by my colleague. This leads to fate in a pile, to poverty, to hungry workers, to poor workers, to impoverished workers. So this cannot agree to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u17	What are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u18	Look, the people have been entitled to us all these years. All these years the people have chosen a liberal, pro-working concept in the economy, because our party is primarily a people's party, it's a pro-working party. But in order to defend the rights of the worker, wealth must be created and wealth created, entrepreneurship must be created. I don't understand how you mean the wealth and who will create it. Poorization and equal division in a loaf of bread?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u19	Workers are losing. The others are paralyzing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u21	Okay. You see the workers are with us. It's no coincidence that the workers are with us. They choose to support our prolongation because they choose responsibility, honesty, honesty and see that what we advocate ideologically is what exists in the modern world and that is where the workers and the unemployed still expect to find a job. I'm coming quickly to answer that question. According to the data kept at the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Labour, which no one can dispute at the moment, nineteen sectoral collective agreements are in force, nine homogeneous, one arbitral decision, a total of twenty-nine. None of the existing twenty-nine collective labour agreements are in the quarter of its prolongation. In particular, from the twenty-nine entry into force of sectoral and homogeneous collective labour agreements, the sixteen ends on 31-12-2020, ten ends in 2021 and 2022 and five ends in the eighth and ninth months of 2020. Consequently, the sixteen collective labour agreements, whose contractual effect expires at the end of the year, have the three-month extension until March 2021 and the five SAAs ending in August and September 2020 will have a three-month extension by November and December, respectively, 2020. Therefore, there is sufficient time until the end of the year to start the process of collective bargaining. The social partners, after completing the collective bargaining, have the possibility and the possibility of safe conditions now, as the risk of spreading pandemic has been considerably reduced, to conclude new collective labour agreements to cover workers whose collective agreements expire at the end of the year. In your timely question, you ask the Ministry of Labour to intervene - take note of what you are asking - individually in order to reinstate the local branch contract of tourist bus drivers of Crete, which expired on 30 June and, indeed, to be compulsory. However, our basic principle and position is that we respect the collective autonomy of the social partners in the conduct of collective bargaining and the conclusion of collective agreements, as provided for in Law 1876/1990. Initiation of collective agreements is the responsibility of trade unions, workers and employers and is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. We specifically took care, when it became necessary because of the unprecedented situation faced by the country over the period in question in March - May, granting - in addition to the pre-specified three-month extension - a new three-month extension until 30 June in collective labour agreements, the three-month extension of the validity of the regulations expired on 29 February 2020 until 30 April 2020. In addition, we have taken additional measures for seasonal workers in the tourist sector and especially for tourist bus drivers, such as the right to re-entry to businesses that will re-entry, re-entry and suspension of a contract of employment, compensation of EUR 534 per month, cover for insurance contributions of EUR 534 per month, workers with the right to re-entry in businesses that will not reopen. Moreover, unqualified workers receiving the seasonal unemployment allowance from September 2019 to February 2020 will receive an exceptional allowance equal to the last monthly unemployment allowance for the months June, July and August. There will be cover for employers and insurance contributions for the months June, July, August and September for all employees recruited or recruited up to 30-9-2020 with part-time employment in these seasonal enterprises. Therefore, on the basis of the current data, there is no major question of re-intervention, as the social partners have sufficient time to negotiate and sign new collective agreements. However, in any case we assess all the data relating to the health crisis and, if necessary, any new interventions may be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the second with number 6537/15-2020 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Unfavourable developments for the sustainability of e - EFKA. Government policies cause large losses of revenue in the insurance funds.' The question will be answered again by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Brutsi. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, unfortunately the situation at work, in the market, in the economy and in the revenues of the ECA is bleak. You had made specific political choices before the pandemic even inclined. The functioning of collective bargaining and collective agreements has deteriorated, and the existence of a good reason for dismissal has been canceled, which means easier redundancies, the Labour Inspectorate has been degraded, which means less and less quality controls at workplaces. Inside the pandemic, too, you made specific choices. You have strengthened unemployment - and not labour - rotating employment, job suspensions, but also at the level of employers - the businesses you say - the results have unfortunately not been positive, because at the moment most of the free professions are out of any liquidity, so that they can meet the needs. This whole mixture leads to a huge loss of revenue for EVA, and the question is what this amount is. We are listening to EUR 400 million a month and EUR 3 billion by the end of the year to a loss of revenue for EKKA. Please tell us what exactly the reduction is and what you intend to do, what initiatives you intend to take to deal with this situation first and to strengthen the revenue and resources of the European Union. Another issue is that, while you promised that by June you would have implemented the October 2019 decisions on the payment of increases in main pensions, you transferred it to November, to see. Tell us when these will be paid. The crucial issue of the days is, of course, the retrospectives for pensioners for the cuts which have been judged to be unconstitutional with the Nos 4051 and 4093. Tell us whether you will extend these decisions to those who have not taken any legal action. The last question concerns outstanding pensions. Unfortunately, reports say they have almost doubled, of a hundred thousand last year, in June 2019, to nearly two thousand outstanding pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u25	Madam President, I would like to reply to my fellow Member in the order of questions he raised. Firstly, just a few days ago we had an extensive debate in the Committee on the Monitoring of the Insurance System of our country, where we were given the opportunity in five hours to say almost everything, to place MPs, personally, the commander of the e-ECA. We made a complete record and analysis of the image of the insurance institution, the national insurance body e-ECA. So I do not understand your question today, because at least you repeat the same questions that have been answered recently and cannot answer all that you are currently describing to me in six minutes, because you are opening up an insurance policy to answer with the questions that you put as headlines in six minutes of prototype and secondary. It can't be done. So I answer you, too, with codes, as you raised the questions, and they are specifically: First, it is false that the APR has been lowered. The RCF has been upgraded. There are fifty new employees, more than we have received, who are currently being activated in controls. Second, in the second half of 2019, most of the audits have ever been recorded in the Board of Auditors of the Ministry of Labour. Thirdly, undeclared work is at 5.11% of the 42.3% which was in February 2012. So it was, and now it's at 5.11%, which wasn't random, but with choices of ours. We are talking about the "ARTEMIS" programme, which contained the very high fines which have now made undeclared work undeclared. And then when I brought the fine of 10,500, which turned out to be a very wise choice, SYRIZA shouted. And not only did SYRIZA, but in general there was a reaction. But he caught a place. As far as the unemployment you are about to say is concerned, I am telling you - not with my own information - that in May 2020 it fell to 14.4% of the 18.2% that was in May 2019. Unfortunately, the de-escalation of unemployment cannot continue. Last month we had an increase of one unit. And this development was fatal because of the coronary. But you know that we are doing our utmost to tackle this problem, which is no longer Greek but globally. As far as the issue of outstanding pensions is concerned, I would like to tell you that you have to be a little careful. I, too, asked dozens of questions to Mrs Ahtsoglou, as well as Members from the other parties, to tell us what the ongoing pensions were. He never answered nor came here where I am to answer. On the contrary, you see me fighting here in the context of the information process, which I honor. He's never been here and nobody knew anything. When I became Minister, I asked SYRIZA to ask me a question and he never answered. New Democracy and KINAL have asked questions and they have answered them. There were a million fifty - eight thousand loose ends. I'm not talking about pensions, I'm talking about loose ends. It was the sixty-six thousand widow's pensions we paid for, and they were the recalculations, and they were the main, subsidiary and one-off issues. So listen, now, some things about outstanding pensions, because it is good to remember them, since, in the week that comes, we will have developments. The outstanding pensions, the so-called ‘short-term’, were indeed increased in the last quarter. Have they increased because we wanted it or why did the staff change? We've improved human resources. By 38.4% the performance from September 1st, the new administration of e-ECA increased until February 2020. Pension payments increased by 38.4%! But what happened? Because something must have happened. It happened, Mr. Comrade! I found twenty thousand pensions in bags, unregistered. SYRIZA hid them so they wouldn't increase their dues. The second element is that three months we didn't have a staff to pull out the pensions. Is that what you're looking at? So when you're asking why they've grown up, what do you say? Are you suggesting that I forbid the employees from leaving the e-ECA, as they left all the public sector and did not work? Is that what you're telling me? But do we stay with your hands crossed? I'm telling you, no. The next week he enters, that is, this week, we are pleased to present the great intersection, the jump in the future, the new era in insurance, the digital pension "ATLAS". Will he respond immediately to the problem of outstanding pensions? Oh, no. The digital pension “ATLAS” comes to solve and deal with a pathogen of decades of our country, the passion of outstanding pensions, a shameful process. And what's he doing? 40% of new pensions, the cause of death and the primary sector of the OGA, will automatically come out with a simple request of the one who completes his working life. So he'll get his pension in a few seconds. That's an achievement! And in the timetable that we will present by the end of 2021, Greece will now have made a huge leap in the future, as 80% -85% of new pensions will come digitalally. You are now aware that the human resources that will not be needed for the award of new pensions will be dealt with in the ongoing pensions and we will now be responding very soon and we will also resolve this issue forever. Our government has had it ready since 2014. Unfortunately, the change of government has stopped it. The digital pension “ATLAS” was ready as of 1 January 2017 and you could implement it. But you ideologically and politically humiliated her. Today, then, we are doing it. You'll see the Ministry of Labour present this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you should explain to the citizens who are listening to us how the Labour Inspectorate was upgraded, when by a General Secretariat that was before, it is now an address of the Ministry of Labour. We also need to see the quality of the checks, to judge what is really happening in the EIA. However, outside the workplace, the situation is specific and the workers know what is going on. From there on, for the work you have said, thousands of workers are currently on job suspension and thousands are also in rotating employment, part-time work and many are not active. It would be a good thing if you did not celebrate the issue of unemployment, because, unfortunately, things both in the economy and in work and in society are not going well with your own responsibility, and we should be more careful and more humble in this matter. For outstanding pensions, you mentioned that the previous Minister had not mentioned the data. However, there are elements in the funds where you can really look at and find that last year's outstanding pensions were at a hundred thousand and today are almost two hundred thousand, according to data leaked into the press. You can tell whether or not they apply. You say the quality of the award has improved. We're waiting to see it. Why are so many unfinished pensions? For example, in the OGA of Patras it takes three to four years to get farmers a pension. It's for granted. Look at it, Minister. The same applies to the EIF with supplementary pensions. There's a huge problem. The issue is that you are announcing digital awards, awards to one day and stuff like that. You know very well - and I know that - that the main issue is the digitisation of the insurance history. Only when we have it, then we can say that pensions can come out quickly and we can achieve it. So when that happens, we'll have it. At the moment, we cannot say that there is a speed in awarding, when thousands of our fellow citizens, farmers and other poor people have not been retired for three and four years. But you did not say anything, Minister, on the matter of retrospective decisions. You were the Minister at the time, in 2012, who with Law 4093 made horizontal pension cuts. This has been considered unconstitutional for the second time by the Council of State and the Council of State has decided that 11 months should be given to pensioners retrospectively. You have the historic opportunity to ask yourself again for a 'excuse' act by the citizens and to restore this injustice, this unconstitutionality that took place in 2012 and to restore it today, extending the validity of decisions to all pensioners without exceptions. You also have to extend it to civil servants who are still pending and are not included in these decisions, as are the beneficiaries of supplementary pensions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u28	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u29	Mr Kalamatiano, you have again raised a number of issues, dozens, which cannot be answered in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u30	But you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u31	But you do well, because you also give me the opportunity to make use of time, to clarify and restore the truth. So I am coming back to unfinished pensions. Whatever you say exists in the press and leaks right and left is unfounded. Substantial is only what comes to the House from the services that SYRIZA consciously concealed. And the criticism of Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr SYRIZA - as a member of the opposition officer, there is nowhere a statement from me - has never been because you have pending pensions. It was because he lied to the world consciously, which constantly went out on the channels at regular intervals and said "we beat them", "we solved them", "there are no more outstanding pensions". And here, we inherited a million fifty-eight thousand loose ends! These are one-off, gentlemen, ancillary, sixty-six thousand widow's pensions, recalculations. We solved most of them. You'll see them in detail when we're running out of time. Wait. You will see them at the end of September 2020, when we will close the time to administer the e-ECA. Indeed, you did not answer us. I don't ask, but let someone come out of SYRIZA to say why they hid in a bag of twenty thousand pensions. Madam President, they hid the pensions and did not register them! And we inherited them now! I commanded Christos Hallaris, the commander of e-ECA, to put them all together. So it is courageous to come here, hide pensions, and we talk in terms of transparency. Twenty thousand pensions were hidden. I'm on my way. Don't underestimate the digital pension. Don't underestimate her, Mr. Kalematian. You're serious, I know, I appreciate you personally. It is the future and will be answered this week. We have chosen two categories consciously: firstly, farmers, the primary sector, and, secondly, those cause of death. How many of those in the new pensions? It's 40%. In the first phase, then, this 40% will come out and from the presentation made at the Ministry of Labour it will never stop, it will run like the river and it will be constantly strengthened. The end of 2020 will also bring the disability pensions in. Then, in the middle of 2021, various categories of employees will enter and at the end of 2021 the other categories will reach about 80% to 85%. This is the answer to the future that we had to do for years as a political system, in society, in society, in the workers, in the insured and did not do so. Just what did we do? We had a vision: the system with man-hours and workers never came out. I have been saying it since then, since 2012-2014, and I have been critical. I have the same idea now that it cannot be dealt with by the workers, but only by electronic means. And we do it, Mr. Kalamatiane, you will see it within the week and you will see what revolution brings to the insurance system of our country. Secondly, look, you're giving me up now and you're saying that the retrospectives that the Council of State has made are due to old years and things. I will ask - rhetoric the question - this: when the Council of State made the first decision in May 2015, who was government? It was you, SYRIZA. And what did you do about the decisions of the Council of State? You hid them under the carpet. And the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, we, have to deal with all the unconstitutionalities. And we went to a pilot trial now to deal with the past, so that pensioners don't run to the various legal offices and solve the unconstitutionalities and free professionals and subsidiary pensions and main pensions of the Katrugalo - SYRIZA. And you saw that, when the decision came out on 1 October 2019, we were so ready that in February 2020 our own insurance reform that locks all this up and restores with respect to the decisions of the Council of State and gives a solution to the retrospectives. And take note: In June a new supplementary pension was granted, on 5 July we gave two hundred and fifty-three thousand pensioners the new subsidiary. Also, on 5 July, in two hundred and fifty - three thousand pensioners, we gave the eight-month retrospectives. I've told this Chamber that it can't be done with magic wand. It takes time, because the systems are running, in July we have many loose ends. In October we intend to pay the new main pension, as we converted the system into a reward with thirty years or more, and in November we will pay the twelve months retrospectively to pensioners from 1 October 2019. That's our programming. Take note in July of what major structural changes we have: First, next week we will pay LEPETE to the pensioners of the National Bank. Secondly, at the end of July for the first time in the history of insurance, basic and supplementary pensions will be paid together. We'll have a 1.250,000 less transactions every year. These are structural changes. We now give it to the same account together, distinctly. Since the end of the month, major and subsidiary payments will be made. And now something important: from 1 July, Madam President, we have made another big break as the Ministry of Labour in e-ECA. The big problem was the funeral expenses, which, unfortunately, SYRIZA has been deposing them in bags since 2015, so as to accumulate 45,000 farmers' cases excellence and for which the whole province is yelling and tells me "it brought the money". This can't be magically treated. We are dealing with this - and I am closing down, because it is also of interest to Parliament - as follows: firstly, a provision of a law which will now be introduced by amendment to the Treasury bill, the provision according to which all the past, these forty-five thousand cases, will be repaid. EUR 800 will be granted, which is the allowance, assistance for the funeral, to all farmers. So for the past, there is this process. For the future, however, it is already with my ministerial decision that began on 1 July and a week ago, no one who is in the unpleasant position of losing a relative and who is a relative who must pay the ceremonial office will not resort to the offices of EFKA. It's a hundred and ten thousand less transactions a year. All this world now enters the new electronic platform built for this purpose at the Ministry of Labour, in e-ECA. And with an agreement I made with the ceremonies' offices, a new procedure has been locked on which to present the invoice, the relative on the other hand, the deceased AMKA, the AMKA of the person concerned, the AMM of the ceremonial office. Now all this will be done electronically and the money will go on the same day - to be precise, every 15 days the payment will be made - to his relative and the ceremonial office. There will no longer be black tax evasion holes. Everything will be done with absolute transparency. So, Mr. Kalamatiano, we have a lot of work to do in front of us, important work. I close because I do not want to leave anything unanswered, saying that, yes, the revenues of the EFCA in the first five months were not the expected ones, what we had put into the budget. That's a reality. Why did this happen? Why didn't the economy go well? Because of the failure of economic policy? Oh, no. You know it's not like that. It was the pandemic, Mr. Kalamaiane, who kneeled the labour market. Of course, when so many thousands of tourist workers have not taken up jobs at the moment, they have not taken up jobs, fate, we would have lost public revenue, which they are hitting on insurance revenues. There are no magical ways, Mr. Kalamatiane. I wish they had been discovered, the money would come from space and fill in gaps and deficits. It's not like that. We're doing everything we can. However, any deficits created will be covered by the state budget. And we have already paid, the first money came, EUR 241,000,000, to cover a deficit that was created during the first time of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. You're killing me with time each time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u33	I'm sorry, but it's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u34	We will continue with the first with number 908/10-7-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Marios Katsis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The recruitment of doctors and equipment in public health structures in Thesprotia". This timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Papoutsis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we are calling on you today with this timely question to give answers, because a year as a government in the field of health care for the Thesprotia Prefecture you have done absolutely nothing. Why have you received a proclaimed post of permanent medical staff, you have received in progress a declared supply of new medical equipment and not only have you completed what was under way, which the SYRIZA government did, but you have done nothing of your own. You have done nothing new, neither permanent staff nor medical equipment, you as a government. That is why you were unable to answer me as a Ministry of Health and the question I had tabled to the Ministry last November, and that is why I am coming today with a timely question. And how can you answer me when - I'm specifically getting into details - for the last eight months, the Friends Hospital hasn't had a commander? Why, really, doesn't he have a commander? Can't you find out which "blue" child is going to be the one to administer the hospital? Do you know what this means functionally, not to exist, with an outdated board of directors and without any service in the Philadelphia Hospital? We are going to the permanent recruitments: Twelve permanent recruitments to the health structures of Thesprotia. He has not come to take over the service of doctors nor one on your day, while the crises were advanced. But what did you do? You were only reopening the last notice we had in May 2019, which had three doctors permanently, eight months later, just last February, eight months later. And why? In fact, you have changed the criteria. In other words, you changed the degree to one of the three physicians of recruitment. Did you hire a permanent doctor to hire COVID? Neither. You've only hired administrative and auxiliary staff. Let's go to the equipment, too. We brought a new CT scanner of sixteen sections to the Philiattes Hospital, aiming for the old CT scanner to be transferred from the Philiattes Hospital to Igoumenitsa TG Igoumenitsa, in order to reduce the service lines from two points to the prefecture capital. At the same time, we had also announced the procurement for the first time in the county, in order to avoid delays, crowding, civil suffering, and a new magnetic tomograph and a year now you have not been able to complete the competition. So neither does the magnetic field come, nor the old CT scan has been placed in the CTB. And, really, why isn't he placed in the TLP? I close with one last one: The innovative program of the 6th Health Area over our days for four hospitals, one of them is the Philiattes Hospital, to place a unit of autonomous oxygen production. When you know it's too critical around the planet to look for respirators and oxygen, we predicted a coronary being autonomous in providing and producing oxygen for the Philatians Hospital and his luck is missing. So give answers, Mr. Undersecretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Katsi, I was really surprised to read your question, and I have to give you answers that you won't like. You dare say that the upgrading of public health in Thesprotia, launched by the previous SYRIZA government, has been stopped by the New Democracy. Policies that, of course, did not lead to the upgrading of the National Health System, were voted against by the Greek people a year ago. But you didn't stop there. You continued by saying that we did nothing to strengthen the public health system in the fight against coronary. Let me remind you that the supplementary health staff hired to meet the needs today exceeds six thousand, despite the initial planning of the two thousand people. Isn't that a reinforcement of the National Health System? Has the health system not been shielded against pandemic adequacy? Was the design and plan to carry out a virus detection and antibody control check on its own? I really do wonder why, while in your public speech you are taking a total stand against the coronary, in fact, saying that you supported every positive effort by the government, you are actually standing against the positive results of this effort. With regard to permanent recruitment in the health structures of Thesprotia, the situation is as follows: On 26 March 2018, sixteen posts of doctors of various specialties were announced for the Philiattes Hospital, which you left us as a loose end until July 2019. About fifteen months you've had them and seen them. Then there were no needs and there are now, where are we government? These sixteen, then, have been completed. Ten posts of doctors of various specialties completed are to be appointed to the relevant department of the Ministry of Health. Five places in Surgery, Cardiology, Anesthesiology, Pathologists and Radiological Diagnostics went out wild and a place in the specialty of Orthopaedics awaits its mission to the Ministry from the 6th Health Region, so that we can proceed with the adoption of a appointment decision. On the 27th of March 2019, two medical posts were held in Paediatric and Psychiatry specialisations for the Philiatrist Hospital, the first being to be in a process of appointment to the relevant department of the Ministry and the second, that of Psychiatry, to have been fertile. Finally, three positions in the specificities of Radiology, Ophthalmology and Internal Pathology are on the respective crisis councils in the process of checking supporting documents. As far as the CT scanner is concerned, I should like to tell you that it has been installed since last November and is operating properly, serving the citizens of Thesprotia. As far as the magnetic tomographer is concerned, the tender for supply is at the final stage and, as far as we know, the one tender submitted and the procedure for the technical evaluation of the dossier has been blocked. Finally, with regard to the tendering procedure for the supply of oxygen generators, a request has been sent to the competent managing authority to extend the validity of the programme in order to proceed with the competitive process of that supply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Undersecretary, really instead of you being surprised, I was amazed, because so far what you have read from notices is SYRIZA's notices. I fully confirm what I asked you in my first place. So, have you completed those in progress, the SYRIZA's announcements? So you read about March 2018 and you say about the eleven posts that were for the hospital that were relevant to the law of the border, which had been completed for our days, not for your own day, the five positions for the TLP, for which the crisis process was at an advanced stage and you have done nothing a year now: in December 2018 Radiological Diagnostic and Biopathology for the TLP Igoumenitsa, in March 2019 Paediatric and Psychiatric and and in May 2019, which you announced eight months later, February, 2020. You fully confirm me, Mr. Undersecretary. You're the new one, haven't you? Well, you didn't bring our people, well, so long you haven't done anything to take over any permanent doctor service, you're coming now and you're poaching on top? And after all - if you want to manage the pandemic, as you said, hiring medical and nursing staff, permanently came? Or did you reopen the second part of the 2019 SYRIZA notice, with eight months of delay, of which all three of Thesprotia are? Because that's the reality. And don't tell me about the management of the pandemic when you know that you have two meters and two stations at the entrance gates of the country. Because at the customs office in Mavromatia, Mr. Undersecretary, at the border with Albania, the pandemic is going through a thousand people a day. At the moment that we have been talking since 1 July over twenty thousand people and not even a single test has been carried out, there is no EGE step on the gates of the country. Why don't you do the same thing with the Propahon? Thesprotia is second-class citizens? Why do you treat them with two standards? You have also changed the way of crisis. For example - and you know that I have put it personally, I will submit it for the Minutes - there is a candidate for recruitment to the ESS by means of your notice, February 2020, where the answer to his application says: "Your electronic application will be checked and will soon be updated by e-mail for the successful final registration, which will indicate the number of the application, or for possible deficiencies to be corrected." Really? First, does the candidate apply for a protocol number? Where are we? Is that Banana? Is this a model of dignity and transparency in recruitment? Did you go and change the way of crisis and have you frozen all SYRIZA's permanent notices? Well, we want you, Mr. Undersecretary, to proceed. I'm telling you, eight months you've been delayed with the MRI, he hasn't come, he should have been here already. The CT scan's been here for today. As far as the oxygen production system is concerned, only because of the question you realise that there was this programme and you have not done anything to get the competition out and settle it. So we're waiting for answers. Stop destroying the health field with the logic and policy you have followed and your previous period of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u40	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Katsi, let me fix you. First of all, you refer to notices in 2019, while only the distribution of posts has been done and you are generally referring, suffice to notices, while we are talking about specific recruitments, for integrated notices. You had a lot of things and you looked at them, and we're on schedule. The situation that we received in July 2019 was not the best possible. I say this very clearly and it is a reality. We received hospitals and health centers with shortcomings and gaps in medical, nursing and other staff, and in dealing with pandemic it was reasonable to turn our attention and all our powers to address this crisis, so that we can have the results that we all know. Our aim is to strengthen the entire National Health System, both in staff and in infrastructure and medical equipment. We will achieve this with targeted recruitment of permanent, medical and nursing staff, where there are shortcomings and gaps, by reorganising and upgrading primary health care. For all that we will do, but also for what we will not do, we will be judged at the end of the four-year period by the citizens. After all, everyone from the result is judged. Of course, as far as CT, magnetic and oxygen production systems are concerned, I think I was clear. The CT scan you can go see him's been working since November.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u42	The old man?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u43	We continue with more recruitment, not only in hospitals, but also in health centres. There are appropriations from previous calls for posts that have been brought out uncivilised, and we are in the process of completing these posts, so that we can call them directly. Of course, we are in a state of support, first with subsidiary staff, of the health structures of Thesprotia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u44	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. The second, with number 926/13-7-2020, is the first question of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on "Direct measures for the staffing and equipment of the General Hospital of Xanthi" will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Kontozamanis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u45	Let's see a little, Mr. Undersecretary, what happens in Xanthi, in an area where, since the beginning of the pandemic, the coronary cases have been repeated, continuously and several times. One would expect that in such an area, with so many persistent cases, the public health system, the hospital in the city, would now have been equipped after about four months of the start of this pandemic. Yet nothing has been done, neither in terms of hospital equipment nor in terms of staffing. I will stay on the equipment of the hospital because, in our question, we bring a request from the Xanthi Doctors' Association to discuss the need for the immediate equipment of the hospital with a molecular analysis machine for the coronary, the so-called PCR. This request has been submitted by hospital doctors since mid-April. We are in the middle of July, it has been three months and nothing has happened at all. How are all these constant cases handled? By sending the samples either to Alexandroupolis or to Thessaloniki and of course their results come either the other day or after two - three days. At the same time, within Xanthi a private laboratory has such a machine, whose results, of course, are published on the same day. Is it random not to have the Public Hospital of Xanthi and have a private lab, which, of course, make enough money, profits, on this case? I don't think so. In any case, what we want to say to you, what the doctors are calling for, what the people of Xanthi are calling for, what the occasion is calling for, Mr Secretary, is that we should immediately - yesterday - supply the Xanthi Hospital with this machine at last, of course, together with all the other demands that we constantly put on us to staff the hospitals, to increase public funding and that coordination, Minister - through the mandate we have been talking about and we are still talking about - all health facilities and public and private facilities so that they can get into the game of dealing with this pandemic, which seems to be not over yet. We are anxiously awaiting your answer, as people in Xanthi expect, to announce the date this machine will be sent to the Hospital of Xanthi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Mr. Delis, the Xanthi Hospital sent samples for consideration to Thessaloniki, AHEPA and Alexandroupolis University Hospital, and the results were exported within the same day. However, we have arranged, in order to facilitate the hospital's operation in the examination of samples, to be able in the next few days to operate a molecular analyst with the possibility of examining eighty samples every four and a half hours, which is transferred and available by the General Hospital of Thessaloniki "IPPORATEI". Therefore, Xanthi and production capacity will have this machine in order to ensure adequate output of results daily in order to meet the needs of the region. Among other things, in your question you refer to staffing at the General Hospital of Xanthi. Let me remind you that the relevant crisis and doctors' selection boards are in the process of integration: eight permanent doctors' posts of various specialties, one urology post, one internal post of Pathology, one cardiology, two anesthesiology positions, one Ophthalmology site, one Mavable - Gynecology and one orthopaedic and traumatic position. These permanent recruitments will be held at the Hospital of Xanthi in early September. Additionally, from the beginning of March, he has been hired and served, for thirty - six months, subsidiary staff, both medical and other staff, covering a total of forty - three places in the hospital. Where there are still needs which cannot be met by ancillary staff, we are moving staff from the nearest health structures. You refer to the private health sector. Let me remind you - because your party has asked similar questions in the context of parliamentary control and in the past - that it is currently not our plan, while planned, for the management of the pandemic and for strengthening the public health system with services from the private sector. Firstly, there is at the moment no need and the situation is under control and there is no need for extreme solutions, such as those of the order, which - let me remind you - is provided for in the legislative acts that we have brought to Parliament. Secondly, there are other ways of working together, which prove to be more efficient. You are also referring to your question about the full financing of the public health system. I would like to comment on the fact that there is sufficient funding for all the bodies and health structures of the National Health System from the state budget. However, there are other sources that we must use to further financial support the system, such as European funds, which is an important source of funding, from which at this stage various needs of the National Health System are being met. To conclude, once again, Mr Delis, that in a few days' time it will work on the Xanthi molecular control machine for the coronary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u48	Me too, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u49	Let me start with what you said at the end, because you said it at first, about the molecular control machine. First, the results that have been sent so far, either in Thessaloniki or in Alexandroupolis, that is, the samples from Xanthi, never come at daylight, Minister. That's what the doctors say, we don't. They come after a day or two, while from her private Xanthi come out on the same day. Now for this machine. If I understood well from what you said, you say you will take the molecular control machine from the "IPPORATEI" General Hospital of Thessaloniki to transfer it to Xanthi. Right? This is what you call "responding to the shortages of the Xanthi Hospital"? So, we're going to meet the needs of Xanthi and leave the "IPPORATEI" Hospital in Thessaloniki without a molecular control machine? So, what do you do with the staff you get doctors and nursing staff from health centers and regional medical services to serve the hospitals, will you do it with the machinery now? And you call this a serious and timely response to the pandemic? In our question, we told you today to announce a date. You said about the next few days. I do not know what these next days will be and of course the gap that will be created, as we said a moment ago, for the 'IPPROVEY'. You also answered that part of the question about staff shortages. First of all, we have visited Xanthi, the hospital - at the beginning of the pandemic - and the shortages in medical staff were too great. It was about 40 percent. There has been no single recruitment of permanent staff. Now that eight positions are being taken by doctors, this route lasts for years. Years are on the way. I do not know where all these people have started, but they have not, of course, reached their own responsibility under the responsibility of the governments. In any case, you cannot support, of course, that you have to deal with the issues arising from the coronary pandemic in time. On the one hand, because at the end of the day, the public health system has turned it into a public health system of one disease, withholding the rest of the health needs of our people, and when we talk about the ordering of private health structures, we say it again, we mean subjecting them to public control, under public coordination and planning, so that they can meet all the needs that exist and not decommission, as has been done, until some time ago, when needed. And what has been won so far by the very great effort of the people - because this was essentially the only time to deal with the pandemic, early incarceration, namely, of the people in the homes - I fear that your government is now playing it in the roulette of the profits of tourism and transport. And you know, this can be too dangerous. In any case, there are very great needs and very great health shortages, Minister. Four months your Government has done absolutely nothing to cover these shortcomings. It is characteristic that intensive care units, which are so much needed for this pandemic, have only risen. While our country should, according to the World Health Organisation, have three and a half thousand, do you know how many it has? Six hundred eighty-five. In 1/6, are you talking about early and effective treatment and a possible wave of pandemic from autumn? How's that gonna happen? Again with incarceration in the houses? Because, apparently, your government does not take a word here in the House, the reason now is in the people, in their movement to claim all this. The people of Xanthi, the people of Thessaloniki. There's no way the Thessaloniki machine can't go to Xanthi. He can't miss it in one area to get another. We're not gonna get the hospitals to fight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delis, the fact that a machine leaves one area and goes to another does not mean that the area from which it leaves will be in trouble. There's a design and a programming. Thessaloniki is adequately covered and there is also additional equipment. We send it to Xanthi - and because you're talking about dates, on Wednesday the machine will be installed - in order to facilitate a situation there. And as long as there was no machine in Xanthi, I don't think anyone was denied a coronary diagnostic check and on time. Because 24 hours - even in the evening, if you like - it is time for us to get the result. See what happens in other countries. It takes at least seventy-two hours in the United Kingdom to get a result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u52	Do not take the UK as an example, especially on the issue of coronary. Leave it better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u53	No, we don't have it as an example. Example is the whole planet of Greece, Mr. Deli. We are, thank God, for the first time in the world. In no case, then, do we take the machine from Thessaloniki to transfer it to Xanthi, creating a problem in Thessaloniki. You also referred to the order again. I told you that in legislative acts we have predicted that, if necessary, the private sector will also be required. Let me make a clarification here. Even in the order - because it's not confiscation, it's a requisition - it's still paying the state. I say this because you have an ideological issue in relation to the operation of the private sector in a public health system. There was our planning, there is, we did not have to use the private sector structures to a large extent, and fortunately we did not need to and hope that we won't have to. Also, as far as the positions of doctors are concerned, I would like to say that in March the notice was issued and I told you that at the end of August or early September these doctors will be in their seats, the procedures will have been completed in very short time. Finally, because you referred to intensive care units, I would ask you to look at the literature and what the World Health Organisation says. It is not three and a half thousand intensive treatment units needed by the country, the average is about a thousand intensive care units.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u54	The average of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u55	The average according to the World Health Organisation and we have been able to increase the beds we received in very short time. Amid a coronary we have exceeded a thousand beds along with private-sector beds, military hospitals and opening new beds in the public health system, which will remain. We have at least seventy new intensive treatment units plus fifty-five and fourteen increased care units that come to be added soon by the grand donation of the Niarch Foundation, plus the programme that we are implementing to increase these units and within a very short time we will have reached this average of a thousand two hundred beds in intensive care units that our country needs according to international literature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. The fourth question by number 910/10-7-2020 will now be discussed in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Ioannina, the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Security of the jobs of the auxiliary staff in the ESS". The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, thank you. Minister, there is no doubt at all that the horn pandemic has shown in the most clearest way the need for the existence and substantial support of the public health system and the excavation that we have passed, but in our view and over time, since it is the only health services that are provided in an unprecedented and equal manner to everyone regardless of their economic, social and professional situation. The main issue that has emerged from previous questions by other colleagues is whether there is sufficient staffing. You mentioned that you received a difficult situation. You will allow me here to tell you that, given the moratoriums, we have made a very serious attempt at basic staffing public health structures. Some ten thousand recruitments were carried out, which also gave a chance to have an infrastructure, which managed to deal with the difficult part of the management of the serious health crisis in our country and I think that has been recognised by everyone. Of course, the applause is not enough, we must all recognise that staffing is inconsistent with the needs that exist. I would say that the protests and demands of the medical and nursing staff would be a good thing not to find the MATs against them, since a few months ago you were talking about the untiring heroes. Therefore, there are requirements, there are rights, claims and, above all, there are very serious needs. I come to the same part of my question. In recent years we have about 16 thousand contractors who have been engaged in the ERC with various employment relationships. In the hospitals of Ioannina, the area I come from, they are currently serving at the university hospital of five hundred seven employees, at the "Hatzikosta" hospital of twenty-three, or six hundred thirty. They are people who work uninterruptedly for seven and continuous years, covering standing and constant needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the last few years - one minute, Madam President - you have sent on the occasion of the COVID pandemic -19, another hundred and ten more workers and fifteen auxiliary doctors. The problem, however, remains because they have already left the hospitals about two hundred nurses and other specialties. The questions I would like to ask you are as follows: Do you intend to secure the jobs of the ancillary staff who either end their contracts or are not recruited by notice 2K/2019 of the ADP, at least as long as the coronary pandemic lasts? Are you planning to proclaim permanent staff posts with special mobilisation for already serving contractors, to whom I referred, as a whole - and the older and young -, as the SYRIZA government had done in the past? Will you proceed to a immediate reopening of all the positions taken - I referred to the specific figures from the ESS - on the basis of the rule of 1: 1 and, of course, on the basis of the fact that there is a temporary cessation of the budgetary stability pact, which we had in the past because of the krone pandemic? Finally, when will you unleash the thousands of five hundred permanent posts that had already been approved since 2019 for a notice? I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Jufi, we've said this many times. The main reason why the National Health System stood up and adequately dealt with the coronary pandemic was the human potential, from doctor and nurse to cleaner and worker, which should not be divided into permanent and contractive. You, of course, know that well, because you were the champions during the SYRIZA ruling period with regard to contracts. You guys started the subsidiary doctors' institution. It is a useful tool, but there certainly have to be permanent solutions to the health system. We have repeatedly stressed both in the context of parliamentary control and every day in our statements that we are seeking, we are seeking permanent solutions to the national health system. Let me correct you. We have a year in the country's governance. Ten thousand recruits did not receive from your own administration. So these workers and, above all, the subsidiary staff you mentioned in your question, which was already in service, but also the one that was hired for the needs of dealing with the coronary, who are not permanent staff but which meet fixed and permanent needs, must be honest. After all, we have said so many times: we have the clear political will to cover empty organic health structures. The Prime Minister himself has repeatedly stressed that ancillary nursing staff will be permanently embedded in the National Health System. We have referred extensively to the procedures that we are going to follow, in order that the positions of the auxiliary medical staff can be converted to positions of curator II, so that we have permanent positions in the National Health System. And of course, in any other case where there is some kind of contractual employment relationship with the National Health System, we are trying to find a way to resolve the whole issue, as are the four thousand OAS workers. It is a fact that this is a large number and it should be prioritised. The solution to this whole question is that it is not easy and simple at all. A proper planning and time range of implementation is needed. What we do not need are micropolitical purposes, and I am sure I am completely understood and understood in this regard. I would be very pleased if you supported the initiatives that we will take in order to resolve these chronic issues of the National Health System. The majority of these issues you inherited us. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The 2K/2019 notice will be appointed to hospitals and health centers for a thousand and two hundred people of different branches and specialties, the majority of which are currently contracted. When the final results are announced, we will be able to speak accurately about the number of contractors that have been permanentd, because in fact in the interim results it appears that some contractors who participated and on 2K/2019 with the extra moleculosis remain outside the contract notice. We are concerned about the fact that some - we do not know exactly the final figure - will stay out. I'm not in a position right now to tell you anything specific. We're looking at this. We are concerned and I believe that we will find the best possible solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u61	I will finish, when my second speech is completed, saying to you and giving the evidence, because you have questioned the number of ten thousand. There is and has been repeated the number of recruitments, as I said before, in difficult memorial times since the governance of SYRIZA. Of course, we have taken people, with all the work relationships, with all the opportunities available and with the prioritisation of the very high needs, and this across the whole range of public health structures. Nevertheless, we have left you and permanent notices. You have already referred to the notice 2K/2019. I asked this question and I urge you to find the people who have not been included in the results of this notice as eligible, because they are people who, as I said before, have been serving the system and in difficult circumstances, to find that way because the needs of the system are there, they are there and you know it. Of course, such a staff involved and under SAEP procedures will be valuable for the National Health System. What I want to say to you is that the issue of permanent appointments in these circumstances and the increase in the remuneration of staff is something that other countries have done. There are examples here of Italy and France. I would say that in that direction you should be moving too. On the other hand, I have a number of questions, because you did not answer an earlier question, which has been asked for three months now, concerning the way in which supplementary staff are selected. For example, on the basis of this question it was suggested that the region of Epirus had far fewer subsidiary members as a whole than other areas of the 6th RS and, indeed, low prevalence of the disease, such as the Messiah. Mostly, there was a lack of ancillary staff at the University of Ioannina, which you know very well that it is a reference unit for all of the northwest Greece, for Lefkada, for Corfu, not only for the treatment of the coronary that was set up and a special control laboratory but overall as a very serious tertiary nursing institution the first on visiting Greece. I will finish with something that has given me a very big impression in the recent notice of positions of qualified ESS doctors on 13-7-2020, in a total of eighty-one-stop-stop-shop doctors, only two of you have given the hospitals of Epirus, Preveza and Philiattes and no one at the Ioannina hospitals. In addition, I see a curious distribution to another decision of yours with a very large number of two-month contracts, what you say two plus two, with private doctors blocked in the 6th DC. It is thirty-three, twice as many as ten times as in other regions, without, of course, knowing what is equivalent to the Ioannina hospitals. I would also like to tell you that in the past, we have also given a significant number of positions, namely the Ministry of Health, to the medical schools, which were all proclaimed and taken over by members of the ICPs who took the lead in the role that the medical schools gave to the difficult battle of the coronary. There is, of course, the possibility of reintroducing the rule one by one - which, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, which has curiously frozen this process - would enable such hospitals not only with doctors from the ESS who need them but also with high-quality universities who can come and give the battle against the coronary, since they are in front of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Madam President. And if you think it is topical, the question I'm presenting to you, listen to the screaming of agony published by the deputy professor of the hospital treatment unit of Rios, Mrs. Lightini Fligou, which says there was no doctor in the notice you made in another reference hospital, all of which concerns the Peloponnese and western Greece. I hope positive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u64	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Jufi, you have asked me further questions in your dentistry, which have nothing to do with the question. But I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u66	But answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u67	Allow me to say about the ten thousand recruitments you refer to in the SYRIZA government. Obviously you are also referring to the contracts you have made for feeding, keeping and cleaning, because there have been several thousand contracts at that time and, of course, you also received credits approved for permanent doctors' posts, which you have proceeded to a call in 2015. We have demonstrated in one year of governance, the great importance we give to human resources. I said that, while our original design was the two thousand ancillary staff hired to manage the pandemic, we have exceeded six thousand recruits right now. Furthermore, this government, the Ministry of Health's political leadership successfully managed the issue of the four thousand OAS contractors, giving an extension to their contracts for an additional year. We are doing something, we are not sticking to the words, our commitments to support the necessary staff in the National Health System. Since you have also referred to ancillary staff and to the distribution of ancillary staff, I would remind you that the process we are following is the one that the SYRIZA government has introduced in the first place. It is a good thing - we have said so many times - as far as subsidiary staff are concerned and, of course, the needs of subsidiary staff are met at the request of the hospitals. You know very well that in a number of cases, particularly as far as medical staff are concerned, these positions are fertile. There is no subsidiary medical staff to cover these positions, and that is why you see that we are trying to meet these needs with the blocks you have mentioned. It is important that we allow such a contract to be concluded in these areas because there are increased needs. You have also referred to the eighty-eighth positions which we announced to the Ministry of Health a few days ago. These positions come from previous notices which were most barren and we wanted with these positions to cover, in particular, the island regions of the country and some other urgent and urgent needs in the rest of the region. The eighty-one, the positions we have put forward are very small in view of the needs of the National Health System. We have said that we are continuing the preparation in order to introduce additional posts from previous notices concerning both hospitals and primary health care in the next few years. And, of course, our planning is progressing, so that we can meet the needs of medical staff in the next three years, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, and we are sure that we will be able to fill most gaps that appear in the National Health System and finally be able to implement the law which provides that the position will be declared six months before someone comes to the pension so that the crisis process is completed when someone leaves the National Health System, so that no gaps are created in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u68	It's true, Minister, but it's freezing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now moving on to the first with number 6743/22-5-2020 question of the circle of petitions from the Member of the Rethymnon Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious functional problems at the Rethymnon Hospital due to inadequate staffing, in particular, the anaesthetic department and the pathological clinic". The question will also be answered by the State Secretary for Health Mr Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u70	Minister, I have asked this question because a written question had been tabled for two months precisely with this content which has not been answered, but the main thing is that during this period the difficulty that has been created in the last few months in two critical sections of the hospital, which affect its overall function, such as anesthesiological and pathological, is unfortunately getting worse. And the most disappointing - I would say - was that the Minister himself, Mr Kikilias, at the hospital, spoke with the workers, with the doctors, with the administration, with the institutional institutions of the hospital. I think he had a detailed update of the situation, but unfortunately this visit was not accompanied by any movement to evacuate the current crisis, because today the hospital is in crisis. Just one simple example I want to tell you: almost since the beginning of the year there are no regular surgery in the hospital, there are only emergency incidents, all the regular activity of the surgical sector has been suspended, often intersected in neighboring prefectures even simple surgical incidents and fractures. You realize - I do not like to settle things or risk - that, really, now the hospital has turned into a newspaper center and cannot cover elementary secondary care functions. I think this is a very high deterioration, in a prefecture that does not have any other public structure, it does not even have a private health structure at this time and because of tourism and because of increased vigilance for the pandemic it is called upon to meet additional needs. So I think it was absolutely disappointing and completely out of the climate that they had presented. And the local bodies were present at the meeting with the Minister, the deputy mayor, the mayor, the medical association, everyone. Not only did the Minister make a commitment to a move towards a dismantling of the crisis, but this eighty-one, eighty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-h-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-tile-two-two-two-two-two-
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Madam President. I therefore believe that the government today owes itself to a next package of positions, to commit that there will be the corresponding and the proposed support. Seven specific positions have been proposed, four for the TEN. There were two barren positions in the TLP that you did not reopen, as you said before. Why have these not been reproclaimed? They were barren.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u74	So these seven positions are a critical prerequisite and, of course, I think there is a great deal of openness here, how we face needs in subordinated parts of provincial hospitals and indeed in specialities where it seems that there is a difficulty in the health system today, such as anesthetics.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kanthi, as a doctor and as Minister of Health in 2015-2019 you know better than anyone in this Chamber the National Health System, procedures, shortcomings and gaps that arise in health staff. You have dealt with them, too, in the past. Every year they retire and leave doctors. No one can prevent this phenomenon. What can be done and what we do is programming, that is to say we see how many retired, what gaps arise, what needs are there and how they will be met. So this is what we are planning as the head of the Ministry of Health and that programming we are implementing. You also know very well that the operational problems of hospitals have not been created from one day to the next and have certainly not been created within the twelve months of our governance. They existed beforehand. We found them in July 2019, as you in January 2015 or you may have found other similar ones. And to be more specific, as far as Rethymnon Hospital is concerned, I should first like to refer to what we delivered in January 2015 and what you in July 2019. In January 2015, they served at the General Hospital of Rethymno 15 pathologists. In August 2019, ten pathologists.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u77	Who told you this, Minister? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u78	Mr Colleague, you will have the time to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u79	There were thirty two overall doctors and twenty-four doctors in August 2019. The situation is a little better with regard to surgeons and anaesthetics. And the numbers are of special value, because they show who boosted the hospital to staff and who didn't. And, of course, what is of greater value is to find solutions that will make the health system better and provide every Greek citizen with quality health services. These results will be seen very soon. It is a fact, Mr Xanthi, that on your government you have ensured that the hospital of your place of origin is served with permanent medical and other personnel. You hired twenty - six doctors of various specialties in permanent organic positions. But it is of particular value to see when, at which point in your term of office, you have completed these recruitments. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] These recruitments were carried out in 2017, 2018 and 2019, two years after your election to the government of the country. And you come to us today and you resign, because in the first year of our term of office, with everything that has happened, especially because of the coronary, we have not appointed permanent medical staff. I would like to inform you that the first results of the medical staff crisis councils in the hospitals of the seven health regions are being completed and received by the Ministry of Health services, so that we can proceed with the respective appointments. This process will have been completed as a whole in the coming of September, which the Government of New Democracy will have only spent 15 months in the government of the country. The General Hospital of Rethymno wants significant support, which is being launched both in the short term and in the long term with permanent recruitment. We are taking all necessary steps to ensure the proper operation of the hospital. The eighth and eighth positions to which you have referred are not the end of recruitment but the beginning. We will continue with more recruitment, meeting needs throughout the territory. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] In this context, therefore, we have proceeded with the recruitment of ancillary staff, nine doctors of various specialties and the recruitment of a private doctor with an anaesthetics block. In cases where we do not find either subsidiary or private, we are also implementing a transport and distraction plan from nearby health structures. We are talking about a total of twenty-seven people. At the same time, we are speeding up the crisis procedures, as I have said, in order to have permanent recruitment. I would like to inform you that the fourteen positions, which are at the forefront of the respective crisis councils of the 7th Health Region, are two anesthesiology positions, two pathology positions, two orthopedic- traumatic positions, one surgical position, one terminology, one pneumonology, one obstetric - gynaecology, one cardiology, one radiology, one ophthalmology and one neurology. I do not know anything, as you say, of the seven empty organic seating positions of ESS doctors who have been proposed by the scientific and trade unions in the hospital. What I know, however, is that the hospital's board of directors, by its decision of 28 May 2010, sent a request for the approval of fourteen medical posts of various specialists to meet the needs of the hospital. Furthermore, as you referred to the update of the hospital organisation, it is true that hospital agencies need important interventions and changes in order to modernise them. This will also be done with the Agency of the General Hospital of Rethymnon and with specific criteria, so that health establishments can provide quality and effective health services and meet all needs. The first step has already been taken in this direction, on a legislative initiative, which we have recently voted on and gives us the possibility of changing hospital agencies by ministerial decision, bypassing the long-term procedures provided for by presidential decrees. For the specialities of doctors, where there are deficiencies and difficulties in covering them, we have said many times that specific incentives, economic, scientific and professional developments need to be given. We have said on several occasions in this Chamber that this framework - we have mentioned some incentives - will soon be able to present it to you, discuss it and finally legislate. We believe that we will find all the wings of the National Representation on our side in order to find a solution to this issue that is stirring up by the National Health System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. Good evening, and good week! Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I think that the answers you give more concern really create rather than a prospect of improving the situation. First of all, the image your services give you - I don't know who's giving this to you - is completely out of reality. The hospital has six or seven - if I'm not mistaken - organic pathologist positions. What you said now about fifteen seats is out of the question. Listen. In April 2020, five pathologists and five anaesthetics were serving at the Rethymno Hospital. For various reasons - I am not saying that it is your fault - there are two pathologists left, one third and two anaesthetics were added. There's a serious crisis and it's coming summer. You take out a circular a few days ago, Mr. Kontozamani, and say that hospital doctors also have the responsibility of patients who are in quarantine hotels. That's unheard of. It has never happened in the health system before, doctors of the ESS have the responsibility of patients who have not examined, who have not been hospitalized, who have not gone to the hospital at all and are in a private place! This should be an exclusive competence of the enclosed private doctors with these hotels. It cannot be borne by the ERC and by this operation in the middle of a pandemic. When a Minister goes, Mr Kontozamanis, to a structure that has a problem, he usually makes a move to support, improve, upgrade, launch a crisis. There's nothing happened here. Not even the elementary one. There was no provision in an emergency call to include - for the eyes of the world, I say - one, two of the most urgent positions, a signal that these needs will be covered permanently and not by movements from neighbouring prefectures. There's Burn - out on the staff. We're at risk with an extra wave of resignations. The system is at risk of disorganization as a whole. It is a call, in fact, for the interventions that you, as a ministry, must make and the relevant interventions by the Health Region, in order to give a signal to both the local society and the hospital workers that this misery will not be recycled and that there will gradually be a prospect of improvement. The additional notice is essential and, of course, these interventions must be supplemented by legislative changes. For example, now, after the 'one to one' that we secured from 2019 onwards, we can legislate that for every vacant position in the public health system, whether medical or other personnel, will be automatically proclaimed without an act of Ministerial Council. Take this legislative initiative. It's a big security move that's for the system. We cannot always depend and make this balance of terror between departures and recruitment. With regard to the positions that come out of barren, after a crisis of infertile two infertile crises, there is an automatic migration into a special incentive scheme, to be declared to the next degree, possibly the bonuses, which have the ‘type A abdomen’. These are important moves that need to be made. Also, in some barren specialties, such as anesthesiology, which unfortunately is a lacking specialty today, overall in the health system, there must be specific provisions, as they have been in the past, rural discharge, a facilitation of specialty, etc. This is a package of interventions which we are proposing, really good faith, in good intention, to legislate. Give a signal, however, that the thing will start to improve and we will not recycle the same misery. In fact, as far as dealing with this hospital's difficulty so far - we have heard great words, good words from both the Minister and from the Minister - it is not translated into practical support, and that gives a sense of disappointment and I would say a lot of mockery, which the doctors of these critical sections have received in particular. I think that you are under an obligation to restore this through these interventions, which I told you before. Of course, I would like to remind you - because you said a few general things - that we received a 'one to five' rule, which was not applicable either. Permanent recruitment in the public system had been frozen for five years, and we have certainly chosen and accelerated and made this mechanism more flexible for the recruitment of subsidiary doctors and other ancillary staff, so we have been able to get three thousand subsidiary doctors and ensure the survival of the ERC. You receive that you appointed five thousand doctors in the quadrant of the pandemic. So I tell you that within a few days in February 2017 we appointed four thousand people in the system, with the OAED contractors. The situation is difficult. We have the usual hospitality needs of the ESS and local communities, we have the pandemic. A special type of intervention and aid is needed. Please, especially this circular, this obligation of your ERC doctors to get it back. The doctors of the ERC cannot be charged with this obligation. You said there would be private doctors contracts to take care of the patients who are quarantine at quarantine hotels.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. Don't go back to seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xanthos, the provision that six months before a doctor's retirement is called for so that the moment he leaves the system has been covered, there is. We don't have to legislate. We therefore need to implement it to the fullest extent
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u84	Maybe he...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u85	So that is the bet I told you that we want to be able to open this post six months before someone leaves the health system. You have referred to the barren positions and the motives to be given. I am pleased that many of our views are identified, and I hope, as I said, will happen when we come to legislate on our plan to cover rural areas, on the incentives to be given to open up these positions and to cover them. Because it is not important for us to publish positions. We could pluralize - if you like - and call as many places as the hospitals and health regions are asking. The point is, these places are paid, there are doctors going to these positions. We therefore need to motivate ourselves to cover these positions. Yes, we are listening to your proposals on atrocious and remote positions and I would say that we are not far away. We have a few other proposals, and I told you that I wish to be able to reach a consensus and consensus when we vote on the incentive system, which we wish to give in order to cover these areas. I also told you that the needs of each health structure are too many and we do not provide permanent solutions. We have repeatedly stressed that the system of subsidiary doctors, which you have first used, yes, helps to provide temporary solutions to the system. It did seem that, too. And you used it to be adequacy and efficiency, and we at this time of pandemic. Within a very short period of time, we have covered six thousand posts necessary with subsidiary staff. We have said that we plan in such a way that the majority of these positions can be converted into permanent posts in the National Health System. I told you that the Rethymno Hospital itself has asked us for a 14-position call and not seven, which you mentioned in your question, in order to meet its needs and I told you that eighty-one post, published in the last few days, is not the end. It is the beginning of a concrete and comprehensive programming to meet the needs of the National Health System. Finally, because you have referred to quarantine hospitals and the management of incidents from the nearest health establishments, I think you have misunderstood, you have not understood the circular that we have issued. So what do you want us to do? If someone's health has been charged to a quarantine hospital, will we leave him on the road? You shouldn't see him, treat him, or, if necessary, stay in a reference hospital or in a hospital...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u86	In the hospital...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u87	Please! Let him go! People will judge. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. Blonde, let him go. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u88	Shouldn't someone have that responsibility? What is it? Second-class citizens? Of course, there will be a surveillance by physicians who are enslaved, but we do not give up on them at God’s mercy in a quarantine hospital. We must monitor what is going on with their health and, if necessary, intervene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr. Contozamani. We move on to the debate of the third under No 919/13-7-2020 on a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Public risk of the Hatzidakis decision postponing indefinitely the completion of forest maps."
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u90	Can I say a point of order, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u91	If you want to say a joint debate with Mr Famelou's question, they did not agree. We suggested it to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u92	I'll say the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u93	What can we do? I am obliged to discipline what the honourable Members want. Mr Arseni, good evening, good week and years a lot about Elias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u95	Whatever you wish! You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u96	Thank you. Minister, I read to you the newspaper “Kathemerini”: “In point zero the forest maps are back. By a decision of the Minister for the Environment, the cases of declassification of forests and forest land are multiplied." The forest maps, including those that have been ratified - 55% of the country has been ratified - should be posted at the outset. The newspaper "Kathimerini" continues: "High risk and unknown consequences, not only makes it impossible to complete the project until 2021, such as the international commitments of the country, but it will probably lead the entire project to the Greek bells, canceling the persistent effort that has been made in the last decade." The reasons for declassification, which you have introduced, are that all areas, which are declared in subsidies or in agricultural registers - wine-growing and olive-growing - are automatically declassified, without considering whether the areas have been evacuated illegally, in which case those who actually trampled the forests are rewarded, and those areas which have industrial and tourism permits, regardless of which licensing stage they are and from whom they have been issued. In other words, if a tourist unit is approved by the Ministry of Tourism, it does not need to be checked, as "Kathimerini", by the forest office, even if it includes wooded pieces. The office's documents are also accepted, although the Council of State has clear case-law that says this is illegal. Building permits which have not yet been implemented are excluded from forest maps. It is sufficient for a certificate of engineer to be observed that the limits of excellence - that is to say, they will never be checked - are respected to exclude them from the forest maps. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u97	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u98	The interest - as the newspaper "KATHMERINI" once again points out - is a resolute newspaper, that all forest maps will be withdrawn, in order to be educated at any stage and uploaded as a whole. Of course, it points out that the SYRIZA government had done something similar for vegetarians. Minister, with this option - which is a continuation of your choice in the 'forestry' bill - what you are doing is that you give green light to arsonists, in the middle of the anti-nuclear period. The responsibility is very important, not only in the woods and the natural environment, but across the street, Minister, and in private property and human life. The forest maps protect forests and citizens from arson. This is what they do for themselves, apart from the legal certainty they bring to investment, which you are otherwise being cut off. So I urge you to withdraw these initiatives, stop. If you want to do something, strengthen the rapid implementation of forest maps, without delaying - as you do with these initiatives - putting human lives at risk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u99	Before the Minister responds, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Interservices Market Control Unit, regulating economic activity, dealing with illegal trade, fines for the movement and marketing of counterfeit/false products, regulating issues for industry, private investment, public-private partnerships, research, innovation and the Economic Chamber of Greece and other provisions’. Mr. Arseni, the Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Arsenis, many years first of all for your second name, Elias. Secondly, I am pleased to say that you are a reader of the newspaper “KATHMERINI”. It's a newspaper, which I'm a reader all the time, I have to say, since I was a student and which I find extremely objective. I just think you're reading 'THIMERIN' some days of the week, and some days you don't read it, because you mentioned in her environmental author's publication, you didn't mention - or obviously you didn't read - to avoid mentioning it, not taking it into account - in my reply the next day exactly. So because you are only aware of the author's criticism and not of my answer, so that we can have a full picture of what has been said in the 'Kathimerini' and have you too, I will tell you my position. What's my position? I believe that this article has found lies. I understand the criticism, I accept criticism from both you and journalists - alas! - No matter how hard it is. But what I cannot accept is serial lies, general lies, but even more serial, as was the case in this particular article, which you took cash. What do I mean? First lie: half the work of forest maps has finally been completed. The truth of this is that the suspension of forest maps was done with great flaws, which the Ministry of the Environment and SYRIZA - related to the circular of the responsible Director-General in 2017, to which I have mentioned and when we discussed environmental law - confessed and said it would correct. After all, it is clear from the hundreds of seventy thousand objections which have been raised in half of Greece - because we are talking about half of Greece - and they were to be dealt with in twenty-seven years, the way in which they were dealt with, which I have not seen too many objections in this House in the last year, which I am the Minister for the Environment. Second lie: administrative decisions to remove forest land from the maps are allegedly added in the Ministry's opinion. That's a huge lie. The truth is that the decision applies the provision of Law 4685/2020 to administrative acts prior to 1975, on the basis of which the Greek State itself expressly recognises non-tariff character. We are therefore applying the law, which - if you like - specialises, specifying the acts, the previous law of SYRIZA. Third lie: They are supposedly excluded from the forest maps of land granted by the state for cultivation, even if they have not been grown. The truth is that for the first time, it has been foreseen in our own law, environmental law, that they are considered as agricultural land only those who maintain their agricultural use today. Let all read that you are against the law what the law says and do not come to conclusions, which simply suit your political analysis of reality, being in complete contrast with that in reality. Fourth lie: the areas declared to the OPECE by farmers are automatically declassified and even those exported illegally are considered as non-tariff. The truth is that the digital maps of OPEKEPE are simply taken into account because they contain the administrative contours, which have granted areas for cultivation to farmers. So those areas that have been evacuated arbitrarily are excluded from any legalization. Fifth lie: the areas are automatically declassified, which are included in special agricultural registers. The truth is, they're not automatically declassified. They are sought through the registries of relevant administrative acts, which characterise the area as rural. Sixth lie: Any land licensed for tourist or industrial installation, whatever stage it is, is allegedly forested. The truth is that provision of the law is specified for activities initiated before '75 which have been legally in operation since then, on the basis of a licence from the administration, i.e. the State, which is not an industrial state and a forestry state. We are a single state, we are the Hellenic Republic and we cannot appear as 'Janus'. Seventh lie: Information documents on the forest or non-performing nature of an area are accepted, despite the opposition of the Council of State. The truth is that the decision of the Council of State is fully respected, as these documents are not automatically accepted. Eighth lie: Building permits that have not been implemented are excluded. The truth is that this is a provision introduced on SYRIZA at L.4389/2016. That is my answer to the author, that is my answer to you. I thought the same thing a few days ago when I gave that answer. I believe the same today. That is the reality, and I would ask everyone to have a debate on reality. You will allow me to say, in fact, and not on what everyone has in mind in order to justify his dogmatism and prejudices, which he has over a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Minister. Minister, you have not responded to the point. Will the process for 55% be re-issued, in which the maps have been finalised? Will the forest maps process be delayed? Why are you telling us the hundreds of seventy thousand objections, but if there is a problem and a delay in examining citizens' objections to forest maps, you can solve this with more people going and examining the objections. Stopting the process and put these maps in doubt, obviously arming the arsonist's hand. I won't talk about economic interests. I'm talking about human lives and private property, beyond the environment, beyond life and forest. You, with your choices, go back too far and do not take it to speed up the maps, as you want to tell us by referring to objections, because you want to change the terms on which the maps are being ratified, because you think they are unfair to some individuals. But the great injustice is when your house burns, when your garden burns, when your people burn, when your crops burn, when all your living burns down. There is the great injustice and this injustice, not only do you not heal it, but close the eye right now. If we had 55% of the country fleeing the motive for arson, that is because it had a registered forest map that the arsonist doesn't have to do anything there, the trespasser doesn't have to do anything, you bring them back this motive. That's crime. It's a crime, Minister. I do not say it in opposition, I really say it, as you have asked me to talk about reality. It's a crime, because it can cost human lives and property beyond the environment. That is why I call on you - I also invited you to the environmentally sound bill - and now to stop this policy, to change course. See how forest maps can be accelerated. Don't take us back. Don't bring the arsonists back to find a job where they had lost her in the areas the forest maps had completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u104	Mr Arseni, you are claiming that I have not responded. I responded to all the points, nonetheless. All the information invoked by the publication and your own question that the publication reproduces has been answered. You're saying it won't delay the work of forest maps. You say that to me? I want you to tell some of SYRIZA's colleagues, wrong address, Mr Arseni. Wrong address, because the work of forest maps, as proved here in discussions in Parliament, would be completed for half of Greece after twenty-seven years, because at the rate of discussion of objections so much it would be necessary. Our government is coming and is taking care to speed up the examination of objections, so that the whole thing can go ahead and complete the project - I want to believe - within two years. We are not asking for any applause from you or any good news or thanks. I would, however, at least ask that there should be no such political blindness from all those who make the criticism, such a political poison, so that they do not recognize the self-evident, that it was a rough drawing of maps, which led nowhere. It led to huge doubts and equally huge delays. You say some individuals have objected. Oh, no? One hundred and seventy thousand Greeks, who have objected to half of Greece, are'some individuals'? From where and up, in your arithmetic, does anyone start to become many? From where and up? Should all the Greeks have submitted to them on this matter? Mr Arsenis, even more, you're ignoring something else. You ignore that we came with the law and the ministerial decision that you are conquering and say that when the public with signatures of its own - before 1975, take care, before the entry into force of this Constitution - it has come and considered a specific area as a rural area, and this area today also retains its character, it cannot be regarded as a forest. In other words, in order to make it simple - I have said before - Eleftherios Venizelos is coming and giving some land to refugees, and these refugees have since cultivated stalks, barleys, cotton and go and see stalks, barleys, cotton for many decades or when Constantine Karamanlis before the dictatorship resurrected and shared rural land with a bogey of the state, this thing is not considered by any fundamentalist in his view of forests as forests. As was the case in the Greek, where all the cements of "OLYMPIAKIS" there were considered for some forests. Hey, no! We protect the real forests and have a national reafforestation plan on the stools. Because we really care about the forest. From there on, however, we are really far from all these theories, which do not affect us, they affect those who move them, those who invent forests where they do not exist. That is not a progressive concept. It's a deeply dogmatic, reactionary conception. From there on, I hear once again one more accusation of the many who have been launched in recent months and in recent years at my expense at political level. Today I have heard that I am giving "fires..." - I do not know how you said it - "... in the hands of arsonists". I'd heard before that I wanted to destroy the poor. Now, again with environmental law, I have heard that we want to eliminate the NATURA regions. We are all judged by the people and by the reality. I have heard a lot about the destruction of OLYMPIAKIS and the destruction of PPC and a series of reforms - and personally and forgive me for the personal tone - that I have promoted. What I see is, however, that there are results in these reforms, because I have always wanted to follow - not my own path - a path of Europe and common sense. I am sorry, but I will say that the criticism of forest maps, of those who are being persecuted, is not in the field of pragmatism. It's just in a field of pure dogmatism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the next question with the same protagonists. The third question will be discussed with number 920/13-7-2020 in the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "When will the crime finally be stopped in the Race?". Mr. Arseni, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I disagree with your answer to the previous question, but I will move on to it. We have a huge problem in West Athens, the Prime Minister's constituency and my own constituency. Steady, almost every day, depending on the direction of the air, it is evidently carried the pollutants from the Race and it really cannot be from the austerity of being in Petropolis, sometimes Ilioon, Saint Anargyros - depends on the exact direction of the air - on the balcony, it cannot be in the playground, it cannot be on the court, it cannot live in public space or in an open space. The collectiveity that fights the theme of the Race, the "Western Front", is likely to come from the Recycling and Composting Engineering Factory, the EMAS. About the same thing is said by the Vice Mayor of Petropolis, Mr. Christopoulos. This place accepts these effects not now, not for ten years, but since the 1960s with effects on its health, which are unknown, because the epidemiological study that would be delivered - supposedly - in December 2019, has become undisclosed and has not been announced when it will be delivered, while any preliminary results of it were too worrying for the West Attica. We expect to see the results for western Athens as well. So we ask you two things: First, to mobilise the services and tell us what you have done to locate the source of dysosmia and secondly, to stop any design, Minister, for new methods of waste management or even old methods of waste management in this area, which since 1960 has been doing this job. She can't be qualified, like the Prime Minister said, to take out plumbers. I hope the government doesn't think it's specializing in handling waste, because it's not. This area deserves better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u107	The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, will answer you. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I do not think anyone is pleased with the image that has existed in the Gender for years, in the Gender in which I have gone to form an image myself. Of course, I cannot help saying to you, Mr Arseni, that while the issue of Race has been raised to us who inherited a situation from the previous government many times here in the context of the questions - and you are doing well - none of the questions have been remembered at the same time - nor should you say - the responsibilities of the previous district, Mrs Duro, which annulled a public-private partnership because it had allergies to the word 'private'. It has therefore annulled a public and private sector contract for the integrated waste management in Attica, and such contracts which have been concluded in Epirus, Serres and Western Macedonia have given a very serious and satisfactory solution, professedly and local government, to all these regions. There is one of the roots of evil, and that is also a heavy legacy that the government has found here. In any case, you are aware that the competence lies with the Region of Attica and the Single Equivalent Association, the EDN. The government has the authority - we are not dismissing our responsibilities - but especially on the issue of odors, to which your question refers, we have referred in the Single Equivalent Link, which has informed us of the following: The Recycling and Composting Engineering Factory, Coreper, as it is called, of the Ano Liosias, operates under environmental conditions that have been amended - when? - in March 2016 and with the authorization issued following the modification of GDP. A complete deodoration system has been installed in the premises of the mechanical sorting unit, in the enclosures, but also in the subunits of the installation with a high rate of performance, according to the ENTSO. The composting plant has installed a chemical treatment unit for the composting process gases and the efficiency of the plant, which is continuously monitored by a specific automation and remote control system, is at high levels. The environmental monitoring programme provides regular measurements of odour concentrations perpendicular to the unit, without exceeding the limit values. That is what EDNA tells us, I must obviously take note of the answer I give. Obviously, because I have been there, I have also said that the situation does not satisfy us. We need something better. We want a new integrated waste design, like the one proposed by the District Administrator, Mr Patulis last winter. I understand that it is unsatisfactory, but I would like you to tell me, Mr Arseni, really what you are proposing for regional waste planning in Attica. What should we do with it? Can we beam them up? Disappear them? Shall we voodoo? What is the solution you propose for the waste?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for asking us a question - both to me and to the Mera25 - about the choices of a government. And since you in your own governance see that you love to send SYRIZA responsibilities, I just happened not to be a SYRIZA MEP, so you send them in the past every time, which we denounce, but if we were in your position, if we were in the government we would just look at the past, we would look at what we are going to do now. So I'll answer your question, but I'll get one - the things you said. For Mrs. Duru, you're not right. In almost every speech, I mention the responsibilities of Mrs Durou. No, of course not the responsibilities you see, for the annulment of the PPP. The responsibility of Mrs Douros is that she voted, last day before she left the region, the extension of the HYTA Gender, with possible areas of the Mousama quarry and other areas that are three hundred metres from residential areas. That is what Mr Patulis is voting for. They vote together on the regional council. Together! You are running with SYRIZA, Minister, at the Regional Council of Attica. So what's the whole conversation about? But you are telling us about the PPPs, the terrible examples of Epirus, Serres and Western Macedonia. We went and found the elements of "TERNA" for the factory. Do you know what the results of the factory on Epirus are? The reduction in the volume of waste from recycling is 20%. Tell me a European directive and a decision with 20% legality. Because you told me that you were interested in European experiences. Tell me a European country - a model that has 20% reduction in waste, with these expensive factories and be proud and want to imitate it. These are the PPPs you bring. Zero recycling, Minister. In practice, bring the rest to the combustion. That's what you want to do. What I am proposing, because you asked me, is recycling at source, sorting at source, separating recycles. Only in this way can recycling be done, so it is done in practice in all the states. It is a system that has been piloted at the moment to a large extent in the part of composting. In the Municipality of Halandri - we also have good practice in Greece - see what's going on a little bit. In other words, we have a practice that we can implement and has succeeded in our country. And since the source is sorted and composted and we've actually reduced the volume of garbage to a minimum, then, Minister, what's left in there, yes, can be buried. Burying locally, not over-locally, and in a hundred years there will be nothing. This is the essence and this is a management, which is complete, has the beginning and end and runs through European experience. Because combustion does not go through European experience. What is the good European experience of this Sweden, where, due to recycling, they have no garbage to send to the combustion plants - because this is the result, if you are making proper recycling - and where, in order to operate these investments, which they poorly did and regret, they import waste for the operations? Are these the models you want to bring us? But because you did not respond, your actions should not only ask EDNA what it has done. The actions that we expect you to do is to send the environmental inspectors to see what's going on over there, where the misery comes from that downgrading the quality of life and probably the health of hundreds of thousands of citizens right now in Athens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u112	Let me just add something, Mr President, because I did not cover all the issues in my prototype. Mr Arsenis and a subject for an epidemiological study. The ETUC has concluded a relevant contract since December 2017. After a competition, the thing proceeds in collaboration with the "Democritus", the National School of Public Health and the Centre for Technological Research in Thessaly. Some extension has been granted due to the coronary and this study will be delivered on 30 November 2020 in order to draw the relevant conclusions. At the same time, on another related issue that had arisen a few months ago, a question had been raised here in Parliament on radioactive elements, which were supposed to have appeared in the Gender HYTA. We have asked the Committee on Atomic Energy to carry out autopsy - in the context of our indifference to everything! - and the committee took its measurements first, sent its report now in June, and the conclusion is that no worrying concentrations of radioactive elements were detected and there is no risk for workers in the establishment and therefore also for the inhabitants of the wider area. I note these, so that there is no concern in the world, since there have also been relevant publications. However, the problem in the Tribal remains indeed. Nobody says otherwise. It's a problem the Tribe. But I was not here as a magician, I was placed as a minister of a European country, in order to find a solution within the framework of Union legislation. So, let us see, is it in the opposite direction to European legislation what we want to do? We tried in 2014 to move on to the units that were financed by the ESRB. If it were to be outside European legislation, it would not be financed. In Epirus they proceeded, in Serres they proceeded, in Kosani. You say you do not like Kosani because of the percentages mentioned in Epirus. What do you like? The alternative we have is Corfu, which also canceled. I went the other day, and I will really remember what I met in Corfu all my life, what SYRIZA then perpetrated by the cancellation of the respective convention that we had signed on the same day that we signed for Epirus. Remember the other situation I saw in front of me in Santorini, the Santorini HID, which will be closed soon? Are these the alternatives? Because we need to see what the alternatives are. You say, I want us to make a limit on the trash volume. And I want this to be our policy in the new ECHR. We want to recycle. Of course we're gonna recycle, but where are we? We are at 20%, with the aim of European from the previous government being at 50% this year. There we are, 20%. Where are we, in the cartoons, press a button and tomorrow morning get to 50%, Mr Arseni? Only in cartoons are these things done! What else do you think? Have screening at source, etc.. Of course, and that is why we are now promoting the coffee bin and we are in cooperation with the government, so that the whole thing can go quickly. Also, again from European policy, you are baptizing something that is not burning. It's the use of energy. Because if you now see at European level, on average in European countries, a percentage, say around 50%, recycled, about 30% goes to energy use and 20% goes to landfill. Well, the energy use you don't want it. Why don't you want her? The European countries also apply it and apply it in the centre of cities at times. Why should we refuse her? We want European policy as a whole - as a whole! - not what you like about me and what you like. This policy will be implemented. The country is very back on waste. It's a huge issue. We will deal with it by means of a system, with determination, with motivation, with counter-incentives, but also with European policy before us, not with what each party likes and with each of us. That's how we're going to move across Greece. That's how we'll move on with the Race.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's go to the next question. And she has the same protagonists. The fifth question will be discussed under number 921/13-7-2020 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Energy Egnatia, the tombstone of Western Macedonia". Mr. Arseni, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, we are asked to continue the debate because it is about the same subject in practice. Tell me, Minister, a country that burns together, as in practice they burn on Volos. A country from these countries that you are announcing, which you see in Europe. The PPPs were financed because we lied in Europe that we would not be sending together to these units. If they knew we were sending together, they would never fund these units, because it's forbidden. To finance the European Union's factory for mechanical sorting, which is 20%, when the target is 50%! And this factory doesn't get up to 20%, because it's starting now. That's 20%, because these are his technical capabilities. And in the century it will always be 20%, if it has not been sorted at the source, composting with different currents. So for the same thing, what is your big project now: in western Macedonia, in Kozani and Ptolemais, which you say that with liberation you will save lives, you will do good in the environment, stopping all this deterioration for the citizens there, you are preparing them a gift, based on the publications. That over there you will use "Ptolemais 5" - and I do not know if you will use "Megalopolis 4" below - to burn the garbage left by your sorting factories. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is this whole debate on energy Egnatia - I conclude, Mr President - which will gather the garbage from Corfu - which you mentioned - to Thrace, in order to transport it either directly to a sorting plant in Ptolemais, or to transfer it directly from other sorting plants that will have reduced the volume of garbage by 20%, in practice we will have 80% mixed and that will be burned at factories. I would like, before we go to the substance of the debate, to confirm, first of all, whether that is what you are considering. Because Mr Thomas in the committee told us that, yes, it is a scenario that is being examined. We would like to hear it from you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u115	This timely question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u116	First of all, in relation to the waste treatment plants, it must obviously be applied in its entirety, as I have said before, Union legislation. And that's what we want to do everywhere in all the plants they're building. We do not make a card choice of Union legislation, as you do. You also chose Union legislation in particular on the subject to which your question refers. Ptolemais 5 will be used in some way by Ptolemais. I have said here and the media that it is a cross-party mistake to build it. I, at least, take responsibility for the responsibilities of our party, but have taken part in this mistake, they have all the parties that have at times ruled the country. This unit will start running and will complete its cycle as a lignite plant in 2028. PPC is now studying different scenarios to exploit it from there, in order to limit as much damage as possible in relation to this option that has been made. Now, from there on, the issue of energy Egnatia, as has been baptized, is something that self-government has embraced in these areas, the PGIs in the wider region. It is not something that is imposed, but it is something that, as I pointed out in my previous reply, is part of Union legislation. The use of energy, in addition to being in our programme, in the programme of the government elected by the Greek people, was acceptable in its own way and by the previous government. I have referred to other questions as to what the previous ECHR said about alternative fuels, RDF, SRF, etc. It is a European policy to produce waste energy. You twist it, you put another sign on it, and you show it as something that's harmful. I beg your pardon, it is very clear, Mr Arsenis. What we support is practical in all European countries. Such units are four hundred across Europe, with the exception of two countries, Romania and Greece. There's no place else. You don't believe it. I'm so sorry. I think something different. The difference is that what you believe is a minority. What I believe is believed in all of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, no matter how much you repeat it, it is no longer wrong. What all Europe thinks, Minister, is that since one is sorting at the source, one can consider what technology one will use. You have been subsidising for so many years the PPPs that are - supposedly - the mechanical recycling and reaching 60% below the European target. Europe cannot imagine that, because in the overlap of European policy you are hiding an oriental chaos. Obviously, this thing is out of European regularity. I do not understand how you give up on us in order to respect the European framework and that we propose something that is a European card when you get what is best for entrepreneurs and that is what Europe is proposing, but the conditions that serve the public interest are ignored. You are using chaos to justify gifts to entrepreneurs so that you are obviously illegal and pan-European. If at the moment you're recycling at the source, I'd like to see the reaction of the businessmen you've given these PPPs. In any case, let's actually go a little bit on our question. We have Ptolemais, Kozani and Amytino, the regions which have suffered terrible effects with cancer and loss of life from lignite mines and secondaryly from lignite combustion plants. You do nothing to restore mines. In these mines you plan to put, from what I hear, from the announcements - and verify that you are thinking of it - new waste sorting plants, to do like Sterna in Epirus to 20% of waste reduction rather than reach the European targets of 50% and then drive them to the combustion plant, to convert 'Ptolemais 5' to a waste incineration plant. In other words, from where people died from lignite mines and combustion, you want to give him the dioxins. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And let me tell you. You're telling me, "But, what's going on? In Austria he comes to the center of the city and the world does not die." What will happen all of a sudden, apart from the fact that scarves are produced everywhere? And over there, there's an impact both on Austria and everywhere. But, over there, because some laws and regulations are being observed, it's not like Volos where mixed waste is burning. They won't burn the mixtures that come out of the PPP units, which you have financed, and you plan to fund and burn plastic and they will spread death, because that's what's going to happen. You get the titles from what they do in Europe and below there is indifference, inertia, services and, ultimately, human health costs. I don't care if this happens across the board. You're a minister right now, and I'm talking to you. What you're planning for Ptolemais is, Minister, perverse. From there, that is, when people died of lignite, you will make them the combustion plant in Greece. It's above rivers. I invite you to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u120	What is the perverse that we want to move on to western Macedonia? What is it? It is deprivation, first of all, an initiative that Mr Arsenis has gone through, because it obviously does not go through with all the image he wants to create for the government. Because frustration is primarily an environmental initiative, which is financed, indeed, bravely by the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u121	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u122	Please, Mr. Arsenis, he has not interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u123	What else do we want to do in Ptolemais, Kosani, Amytino, Florina? We don't want to restore the mines. Where did you see that written? Where did you see it? Where did you find it? Let me read it for the first time, Mr Arseni. No one's ever said that. Obviously we want to restore the mines, and this is a key element in the whole program of liberation and a fair transition. Alas, if we didn't. And it's not about being right, central or left. This is a basic policy for every country that promotes such programmes. Where do you imagine? In other words, when you don't have any opposition, you imagine a few things and exercise a imagination of opposition. Then you keep criticizing all these units that work. Please take a trip and come and tell me after your trip, not from your office here. Go to Corfu and then go to Kosani. Go to Santorini and then go to Serres, where Mr. Lionides is from, sitting at the bottom of the Chamber. And then you come and tell me where the world is whining and where the world is happy. For I, in Corfu and Santorini, have seen self-government and citizens have an indignation, and instead in western Macedonia and in Serres, since I mentioned these examples, the world and self-government are happy. That's the reality, no matter how much it suits your questions. Now, from there on, on energy utilization, I have seen that somehow in your dentistry you have had to admit that it is happening throughout Europe, that some substances are emitted, but here you doubt whether we are going to implement European legislation. But you, anyway, doubt everything! You do not just doubt the issue of energy utilization. We shouldn't do anything because of your doubts! What I am replying to you, then, is, yes, that we want to do, as is done in the whole of the European Union - and I told you that only in Romania is it not possible so far in Greece - and energy use, of course, at source sorting, of course, recycling, of course, particularly of the current, first of all, coffee and organics, of course, upgraded the operation of the CDIs, the sorting centres, but at the same time, yes, we want to promote - and it also embraces self-government - and energy use because it is energy production, that is, wealth from waste. They're modern technologies. These modern technologies will be implemented. And if we did not want to do so, we are obliged by the European Union. And that's what we'll do and you'll see that we do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. We are entering the last question for today, in the sixth question under number 923/13-7-2020, a topical question for the second cycle of MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Why does the government choose to strengthen the work of forest maps and the rule of law?" Mr. Famelle, good evening, good week! You have two minutes at your disposal, and because it's the last question, don't be late, right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the whole of the country's environmental bodies and organisations have described Law 4685 as environmental crime, a crime in which you and Mr Mitsotakis are a perpetrator, a crime which is both serial and consistent and continues, as it seems, with your own initiative at the expense of the environment and at the expense of the Constitution. And one of the last victims is the forest maps. You know very well that when the SYRIZA government took over, our country under the responsibility of the New Democracy - to which you belong - and PASOK only had 1% of its area of dominated forest maps. Our government has decided - and with the instigation of the institutions, it is true - to change this sad situation that your own governments have not managed to change, and this situation is related to both the rule of law and the environment. It concerns both constitutional rights and entrepreneurship. This effort has been fruitful. Greece finally managed to post 55% of its land on forest maps, to have ratified 44% and to be assigned all the new forest maps, so that this year we had all the maps of the country on post, so that we are a European country as you want to say. But you do not want to do so, Mr Hatzidakis. And forest maps are a proof that you are turning Greece century back to Europe, not just decades. The effort was not easy, it was a difficult effort. I personally had the responsibility. It was an effort taken together with the services, which was given with the citizens, together with the institutions throughout Greece. It took a lot of change, extensions, lowering the cost of objections, allowing free manifest errors, a fixed-term hiring to support services, and changes in particular concerning island Greece. We have reached a point and many problems have been revealed - it is a fact - for which the forest maps are not to blame, Mr Hatzidakis. It is because of the problems caused by your own governments forty years, hiding the problem under the carpet, which hit the farmer, the man of the region and the citizen who owned the region. And now the New Democracy comes and closes the eye again in the same situation. And you have a personal responsibility, because you have been renewing the same maliciousness about the Greek countryside and the region of the last forty years. While in the delivery-receipt process of the Ministry you spoke positively about the forest maps and the work done, and here in the programming statements you referred to the focusing on the completion of the forest maps for which steps have been taken forward, you now come and cancel all that has been done and you do not focus on the integration that was ready, because the maps were assigned to SYRIZA and were completed, but you turn it all back decades. What for? Why have some of your voters been dissatisfied with and some local states have promised to cancel forest maps, as they have done for the entire period of our term of office? So you're bowing to this delay and turning Greece behind Europe, Mr. Hatzidakis? Previously, you spoke about Europe in my previous colleague. Now what are you doing, Mr Hatzidakis, while you spoke here from this Step in favour of forest maps and the need to complete them? Of course, it revealed what you were doing with article 48 of Law 4685. You come and you're asking for all the forest maps to be cancelled. On the grounds of the objections concerning the unregulated section, you come and annulled the vacant part in which, Mr President, there were no objections, there was no objection. At the same time, with anti-constitutional arrangements, you are asking for the revision of forest maps by driving the matter back to the Council of State, so you are driving this process to annul. You are creating huge obligations with acts that are not institutionally sufficient, with acts that have many ambiguities and have not yet been cleared up what needs to be done. You are therefore asking for administrative acts of dubious validity to be incorporated into forest maps, which the Citizens' Counsel had said, but the Council of State has said so, Minister. In practice, then, you lead the whole story to not having forest maps. But what we also see is that you are inconsistent with yourself. From what I see here in Article 48, you committed yourself on 7 May, Minister, and I would like you to answer for that - that the forest maps will have been reformed within two months. And now two months later, what are you doing? Are you bringing a ministerial decision to give yourself a new extension for another two and a half months and asking for things that we all know are not going to happen until then? And when, Minister, you come here and ask for a new extension, will you admit that you are either naive or you were lying so far? Why don't we just make it clear now what should be done with the forest maps? We are clearly telling you that, unfortunately, this process will not be completed and that you are bringing the forest maps of the whole country to annul. You refer to the bells the forest maps, even the dominated maps for which there was no problem and no objection. And you come to plenary tomorrow, Minister, and introduce a new amendment amending your two-month legislation and the ministerial decision that has already come out on how new forest maps will be drawn up, even in the vacated section. It is certain, Mr Hatzidakis, that the services will not be able to respond, because on the other hand you have stopped the recruitment of two hundred permanent forestry engineers, whose recruitment was approved in the 2019 programming, and another three hundred fifty that would be for the fire prevention project. And we're asking you with an honest question about something the country needs and it's simple. In other words, we want you to commit to when the country will have dominated forest maps throughout its territory, without any gaps and exceptions of unconstitutionality. So the first thing we ask you is when Greece will acquire well-established forest maps and how the forest services will cope with what you neither will, unfortunately, know how they will do so, because you are coming and amending your own provision and giving yourself an extension. That is our main problem, Mr Hatzidakis. The whole of Greece knows you're wrong, just like all of Greece knows that you're criminalizing the environment. Can you reply to the Greek Parliament about when our country will have forest maps and when we will finally enter European regularity and the rule of law? Because this is questionable to play in the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Femmel. Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis has the floor now. Here, Minister, you have three minutes to talk to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, who in practice exercises environmental policy and who is not proven by specific facts. In the case of SYRIZA, it is also demonstrated by the convictions we had from the Court of Justice of the European Union on environmental policy. It proves even more than the references made in SYRIZA to a number of open cases that the SYRIZA government has only managed to keep them open and now we have to run to see what we are going to do. It is specifically demonstrated in forestry policy that since 2015 they have found a programme of 250 million for forest protection, reafforestation, fire prevention, etc. And within four and a half years of staying in the government they had managed to absorb 0 euros! Because that was absorbed for the forests. Today, as at other meetings of Parliament, SYRIZA's colleagues are being cut by raising their sensitivity to forests. For that sensitivity, however, they need proof. And these evidence doesn't exist. Here is the reality and the evidence to be avenged every day. Your data and reality are also avenged in drawing up forest maps. I did have the sincerity - and I repeat it today from this position - to say that I believe that the SYRIZA government has dealt with this issue and has promoted, in the way it did, the forest maps. I don't have to hide it, but I can't hide all of what I saw and which are concrete elements. I saw the sloppyness with which it had gone. I saw the seventy thousand objections raised in 55% of the country. I have also seen many cases in which there have been doubts, which have been really spectacular, and I wonder what you have done as a government. What have you done, when there were decisions by Eleftherios Venizelos, with which, as I have already pointed out in Mr Arsenis's question, which was identical - what should I do, I say the same, but the same thing is the same - he gave refugees for decades of rural land that has been left today and for which they are subsidised by the European Union? And you considered it all the stalks, rice and papillary forests!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u128	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u129	You! On your own government! I didn't see you do anything to fix it. On the contrary, you shake the finger on us, because we have the courage to escape dogmatism and correct them. And you are accountable to the farmers, to the real farmers, to the fact that you are even taking this attitude toward them today. I'm not saying we shouldn't protect the forests. We, the programme that we found with zero euros, have gone to a hundred million in invitations and are planning a National Reafforestation Plan beyond that. But that's protection of the real forests. It is not forest protection that we have in mind, as was the case in the Greek, with which you started with your known dogmatisms and at the end you were trying to untangle them as - as. You remember then, with the connections that existed with the CIA, the other with the forest services and the master who found there were forests. So we - listen to it, Mr Famele - support and support the real forests. We protect the real forests. We are not protecting the imaginary forests which your party, lost in its dogma, has the courage to support today even today, because we are interested in protecting the environment not in words, but in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Famele, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you will allow me to tell you this: Please very much in the secondary, if you can, answer us when Greece will have forest maps. You forgot to tell us that at the beginning. In your first speech, of course, you thought to tell us that Greece had fines and convictions. You probably haven't read the Ministry's papers well. Mr President, Greece has paid EUR 100 million - more than that - fines for environmental infringements, because the governments and especially the Samara - Venizelos government had left three hundred dumps for which we were convicted before the SYRIZA government took over. During SYRIZA's governance we reduced the fine in both money and uncontrolled landfills to see what was done in bankruptcy, for which you are responsible. The only issue that Greece left out, even though it acquired a plan, was an issue of water pollution. He had a plan, but he did not get it the time that the European Union wanted. All the rest are violations of your own governments, Mr Hatzidakis, but we will find these slowly. But you have not answered what you will eventually do on the matter of forest maps. You told us that you were going to activate a programme of the Rural Development Programme, for which the ministerial decisions were made by us, because specific ministerial decisions had to be made for the cooperation of the two ministries. Don't move the finger. I know very well what was going on in the PAA and the Reafforestation Program. But what I would like to say, Mr Hatzidakis, is that you did not say a word on forest maps because 'environmental crime' no one called SYRIZA's policy. Your own policy has been called by all environmental organizations. You remembered about the Greek, which has still been resolved, because the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, in which you were Minister, left a contract that was not implemented, because it had not determined either the nature of the uses of land or the areas of archaeological protection. Unless you tell us that Greece is not an environment and history and that it is something else for you Greece. Is there anything else for you, Mr. Hatzidakis? Will investment and growth take place without the environment and without the history of our country? Will they be backed somewhere else? However, I should like to refer to what we are discussing. It's a matter of forest maps. Mr Hatzidakis, I directly blame you for turning Greece a century back in relation to European regularity. And you're also saying asynchronously lies about maps. You said that there were no decisions of the Free Venizelos. Mr President, Article 20(1) of Law 3889/2010 is not a law that existed before it is not of the SYRIZA, and it provides for the integration even after the ratification of the forest map and legal administrative acts and acts of the State and for the amendment of the Charter, although it has been ratified ex post. So, Mr Hatzidakis, all that you refer to was that in the institutional context, all what you say and we also gave extensions, we also gave the possibility of reviewing manifest errors and objections, because we had to allow the citizens to solve their problem, and we proceeded with arrangements that had a problem with the Council of State, such as the outdated agricultural land, which you have said nothing about, for something that concerns the Greek farmer. On the contrary, you are now coming and, despite the fact that there was Article 20 of Law 3889/2010, as I have told you, the inclusion of omissions of administrative acts in the forest map without a new post, you are also bringing up those who have objections, not those who have been ratified. From the Pan-Hellenic Association of Public Officials, I see that 93% of the posted was ratified without objection and 7% objected. For 7% of the objections instead of hiring forestists to quickly examine the objections, stop recruitment and cancel 93% that is invalidated without objection, and is there a provision of law to incorporate the legal acts of the administration and there is this possibility for the citizen? So you choose to exclude areas from forest maps without documentation, against decisions by the Council of State, for a very simple reason, Mr Hatzidakis: you want no maps. I blame you for that. The Government of New Democracy and you personally, in order to care for your local states, are asking that our country should not have forest maps and therefore also a Land register. So I ask you clearly: When will we have forest maps? Because I am very afraid that this regulation you are doing will also fall within the Council of State. I see here that, apart from the pan-Hellenic associations of forests and the Forestry Union, and the Citizens' Counselor in the documents that brought us to the committee writes, for example, that information documents, which you say, are now incorporating, do not replace the process of characterisation and do not have legal effects. So, Minister, you have legislated and you have the courage to say that you will modify forest maps with something that the S.H.I.E. Has the Citizen's Counsel already rejected it and said so? So who dynamizes the forest maps and the future of Greece? Not to say what the geologists of the public say is dangerous your arrangements and that the files you want to incorporate are not considered reliable or for what the foresters say that little - very much you allow 'what you are'. This does not apply to forestry policy. And, unfortunately, you have introduced all this while, Mr President, you have noticed that the Ministerial Decision does not accept the acts of the opposition committees. In other words, where two scientists and a lawyer from outside have processed geoinformatics, they have seen the orthophotographs, they have documented whether they are forest or not, they are not taken into account by Mr. Hatzidakis. Oh, no. These services have been prepared and have already been examined, the results and minutes of the opposition committees are not taken into account. Why, Mr Hatzidakis, do you not have EIAs as evidence? On the contrary, you use several windows to say that it is the SYRIZA's fault as what I have heard before, that is, that SYRIZA has legislated that where we have a building permit it can be, if you want legal, the construction. Mr. Hatzidakis, do you know what the law said so far? Where there is a legal act of the administration, building permit, the building is obviously considered legal. Do you know what you legislated? Even where it hasn't been built. Can you imagine, Mr. President? Where building permits were issued, but it was not structured, probably because the owner was afraid that the office would come and take him a light bulwark, because obviously there was a question, that is what Mr Hatzidakis now legalizes! Unstructured possible future buildings that have simple building permits, consider them legal, buildings that have not yet been built, within forest area. So all this is a vague foggy landscape, which has a multitude of mistakes and misinterpretations and will also be brought to the Council of State because there is a problem of unconstitutionality. The biggest problem, however, is that it will lead our Greece not to have forest maps. You will keep the administration from doing the work, Mr. Hatzidakis. That's what we tell you. Have you already made a ministerial decision that you ask the citizens in a month to carry the documents and then, when in a month's time the services will assess them, you are not referring to a suspension procedure and you are setting a timetable which, if I am not mistaken, will have to be completed by 30 September? Do you really think you're going to do this? By 30 September, will you have collected administrative acts, evaluated by all this procedure provided for by the Ministerial Decision, reformed forest maps and their suspension? In the next one and a half, two months in the summer? And why don't you move on to post the already studied forest maps that have been completed throughout Greece, the remaining 45%?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Felle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u133	Mr Hatzidakis, I would like to ask you again why the reform of the forest maps, in particular those that have been ratified, has been chosen to be contrary to the Constitution and the Council of State? When will Greece have forest maps and why are you stumbling in the air and the young and the old and the dominated, but also in the areas that have been considered and which have been decided by the EIA? Unfortunately, in addition to the farmers, you will leave all citizens uncovered and entrepreneurship, because you are dynamizing the rule of law, since Greece will never have any forest maps or a register. Never, of course, as long as the New Democracy is a government. Because all this will obviously be overthrown by the next SYRIZA government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u134	Mr Hatzidakis, you have three minutes - we say three minutes with what he said - to answer Mr Famelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u135	Mr Famele, I really am grateful to you for your opposition and I encourage you to continue with it, because the way you are following does not believe neither the most fan of SYRIZA nor your colleagues in your office! Mr. Famele, the programs you're talking about with a great deal of nerve, I found them with zero absorbances, as I said before. I add zero contracts. I add, too, by almost zero treatment, because you do nothing. Apart from swinging the hand on forests today, you have done nothing about this programme. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u136	Are you going to tell us about the maps?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u137	I'll tell you about the maps. I'll say one - one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Femelle, he didn't interrupt you. He listened to you with patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u139	I advise you another time not to ask such questions, precisely because I will answer everything. Secondly, for the administrative acts you say that you had predicted them, there was a general provision that led the public administration to interpret things properly, the Director-General in 2017 - I mentioned in the document - to say "we will correct everything in the future", what we are doing today and at the end, to be regarded as forests that have been cultivating decades and, as I said before, they had taken them from Eleftherios Venizelos or Konstantinos Karamanlis before the dictatorship. This is a huge social and political issue. He's an elephant in the room for forest maps and he's not hiding at all. As many political plays as SYRIZA does, he's not hiding at all. The farmers know that, the district managers know it, the whole country knows it. I'm going further. You are so proud of the work. Be proud in the first place, if you like, I recognized it too. I said that you did well and you started it and we did badly, the previous governments, who hadn't started it before 2014. I say this now with courage, but with the same sincerity and the same courage, I say that, as you did, in half of Greece the maps for which you are currently dealing with would be completed not in two, five and ten years, but in twenty-seven years, in twenty-seven years, at the rate that the objections were being examined. That is why we need an apology, an apology, something, in any case, to the people you systematically attempt to make fun of. That is why they are removed from your party, because one liar, two liars, see what happens in polling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u140	That's why you cut the hire.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u141	We are no longer in 2012-2014. People have understood, they can judge and compare. From that point on, I'm going further...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u142	Tell us about the maps.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u143	I've been talking about maps for so long. I'm going further. What are we dealing with with with the law and the decisions? This sluggishness, the delay in drawing up the maps and the injustices we face. Unless you think we should close our eyes to social injustices, which were the result of drawing up the maps. It is for this reason that we are posted in the way that is planned, and that is why we shall proceed quickly, too. I cannot understand, by the way, what you are criticising us. On the one hand, you say that the problem of maps will perpetuate and, on the other, you say that the deadlines for posting are tight. What do you think of both? Because both of them can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u144	That you'll be inconsistent once more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u145	In any case, what I am telling you is that the Council of State itself, which you refer to, says that, in order to take account of the maps, for the forest maps to be based, they must be precise and definitive. And what I described did not lead to the conclusion that it was something that reminds me of the words 'accurate' and 'final'. We are therefore going to make a very great effort to put the maps back on the table to get rid of the objections. I believe that within two years this effort will be completed instead of twenty-seven, and that is our difference. I repeat, you twenty-seven. And from there on, I would also like to remind you, because you have also spoken of unconstitutionalities, that your law had already been judged on some parts of the anti-constitutional by the Council of State in relation to various rural areas. I said it here, again, in plenary. As also, your own law had been judged unconstitutional in relation to the settlements. Remember that, and you've forgotten that, and you've forgotten everything that doesn't suit you? You who teach lessons of constitutionality have your own laws that have been judged unconstitutional. In any case, Mr Famelle, I am really grateful for the question. I am beside you for the style of the question. I would like to ask you to continue asking such questions, because you are the largest sponsor of government policy in the field of the environment and energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u146	Will we have maps?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u147	And we thank you both. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-20-S1-commons.u148	With the consent of the House at the time of 19:32, the sitting will be closed for Tuesday, Tuesday, 21 July 2020, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed. Thank you very much, all of you, both up and down. Good night, the Virgin Mary with you.
