ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 6-2-2020, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 6 February 2020 were endorsed by the Bureau in its proceedings on 6 February 2020 with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Institution, operation and operation of airports on water surfaces, transport arrangements and other provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday 10 February 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 451/30-1-2020, raised by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Foreign Minister, on "The new contract between the Greek Government and UNICEF". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "No provision in the system of appointments of educational staff". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Evangelia Lykoulis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, dated 452/30-1-2020, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening and reopening of the Centre for Environmental Education (CEP) Kissavos - Montenegro as an independent Centre for Environmental Education". We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the eleven questions to be asked. We don't have any cancellations. We begin with three questions which will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou, who is present. We begin with our second question with number 476/4-2-2020, on the second question by Evia MEP, the Communist Party of Greece, Georgios Marinos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Unprecedented continuation of the operation of LARCO', safeguarding all jobs, workers' rights and the necessary hygiene and security measures for them'. Mr. Marine, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis turns from here and quotes information about "LARCO", which is unfounded and serves the aim of privatisation and the closure of the operation. You hide that the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the previous governments designed to undermine and renounce the operation. PPC is a shareholder of LARCO and the company pays the electricity more than other electric companies. New Democracy in 2006 doubled the invoice. In the period 2005-2007, ‘LARCO’ records over 400 million foregone profits, with the responsibility of the administration appointed by the New Democracy. No one took responsibility. In 2009, the State, as the main shareholder of ‘LARCO’, increased its share capital, entered a guarantor in loans repaid by ‘LARCO’ and the European Competition Committee imposed a fine of EUR 136 million. The government's responsibilities are time-consuming, they are syndicated for the dozens dead of accidents at work, and the slandering attack on workers, who are working in unbelievably hard conditions, is dirty. LARCO is a strategic railway undertaking, the largest of its kind in the European Union, with a thousand two-two employees. There is therefore one solution, that LARCO should be supported financially and that it should continue to function, modernise and ensure the right of work and the other rights of all workers, end slavery with contractors, implement substantial measures to protect the life and safety of workers. From this point of view, the JRC rejects and condemns the government's plan to clear up, reduce workers' wages, privatise or close down the company, and we call on the Government not to table the anti-clock amendment it is preparing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make it clear that I am not responsible for energy matters, but because of the absence of both the Minister and the State Secretary responsible, Thomas, for a government mission in western Macedonia and in general Macedonia, I answer on their behalf. LARCO is the largest railway undertaking in Europe, as you said, Mr Papoutsis, and one of the five largest companies in the world. There is no doubt that it is of great importance, and development, and from the point of view of size, and strategy. The problem is that for many years LARCO has been recording damage and a purely negative position for years. This is linked to the fact that its productivity is very low or in other words that the selling price of nickel, resulting from this ‘LARCO’ process, is well above international prices. That is why every ton of nickel sold today creates an additional deficit. This is a phenomenon that lasts several years. Furthermore, now, specific problems of another type have been created. The first is that LARCO is the largest debtor in Greece of PPC. Her debts amount to 350 million. This debt is increasing month after month. Recently, PPC with an extrajudicial charge to LARCO requested payment of the debts for the unpaid electricity bills. I would also remind you of the situation in which PPC is located. With regard to State aid, there are final judgments of the European Court of Justice, which, as a whole, mean requirements of the order of EUR 135 million. It's 165 million with interest. This is what the Greek state has to pay for because it has given state aid. Also, LARCO has on its back about 50 million environmental fines. There is no environmental licensing, it pollutes Evia, there are safety problems with workers. Recently there have been fatal accidents. It is therefore clear that LARCO is an extreme problematic business. If it were any private company, it would have been closed and the workers would have suffered the consequences. In this case, because in practice it belongs to the wider public sector, it has not been closed. However, this does not mean that these huge problems will be solved by magic if the current situation persists. There's something else he needs. So what is certain is that the company is on the edge of the cliff. Other governments are responsible for this situation. I agree with you that there are responsibilities over time. But there is no possibility of dealing with this today by giving further state aid. That's impossible. Thank you, Mr President, and I reserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u5	I too, Minister, for the consistency of time. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u6	I am very sorry, Mr President, but the Secretary-General has not given a substantial answer. We have recorded from the outset that all governments' long-term responsibilities must be attributed. On this basis, too, we reject and condemn the forthcoming government proposal to privatise or close LARCO. Because it is not a small case to show in practice that LARCO pays all the years extremely expensive electricity and above this percentage paid by other electricity companies, or that, under the responsibility of the New Democracy, the electricity tariff was doubled. Employees are well aware that whether it is the Government of New Democracy, PASOK, or the Government of SYRIZA, methodically designed to undermine and deceive a megageon in the field of ferro-nickel, which is "LARCO". It is therefore a matter of political and political will. And the plan you're preparing, Mr. Undersecretary, is a dissolution. In other words, it aims to privatise or close the company. It's aiming to fly on the road a thousand two hundred workers. You are using the argument about the judgment of the European Court of Justice that imposed a fine of EUR 136 million. But we know that at the same time the European Union has adopted a financing plan for seven states and seventeen businesses, where it has made millions of euros. You yourself, the New Democracy Government finances monopolistic and other groups with huge sums. On this basis, too, we call for the immediate financing of LARCO, the continuation of its operation, the payment of employees, and the safeguarding of wages and all workers' rights. Otherwise, tragic conditions arise which are at the expense of these thousands of workers' families, the workers of Central Greece, as a whole of the working class in our country. This is your development. The development that serves only one criterion, the criterion of capitalist profit. That is why, from this step forward, we call not to go ahead with this solvent plan, not to bring in the amendment you are preparing. We support - and I conclude, Mr President - the tens of thousands of workers who protested in Athens on 25 January and expressed their willingness to remain in operation by LARCO, stressing: 'Down with LARCO and its employees'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u8	The fact that, in another case, the European Union has approved support from some businesses does not mean that we can do that in this particular case. Each case has its differences, it is judged on different criteria. In this case, 'LARCO', we have final judgments of the European Court of Justice. We cannot avoid paying for these, because in some other case with different data there is a different attitude. Every case has its peculiarities. There is no way to avoid this. Regarding the liabilities to PPC, their size is linked to the weaknesses of the production process, with low productivity. Without modernising the production process, productivity cannot be improved and capital needs to be made modernised. The Greek people, i.e. the other taxpayers, the other workers, have already been channelled to LARCO. It is not one of the 'leaf trees' which, as we all know, come from this money. Someone else's paying for it. So, in order to perpetuate this situation, all the rest of us suffer the consequences. Moreover, workers are also subject to the consequences of problems in working conditions and the lack of safety conditions. In other words, the workers are the victims of the 'LARCO' s payroll. What can be done? Firstly, the current situation cannot continue with the provision of new state aid, because this and economicly impossible, but above all it is legally impossible. So we have to have another solution. The only solution is to inject private capital into the company. I understand that there are different ideological positions on this issue. That's respectable. The government has no problem with the privatisation of certain enterprises. It is understandable that other forces may see it differently, but the government was elected by such a programme and by these authorities. These were put to the attention of the Greek people, so they were voted on and that is what we are doing. As to what will happen, the only realistic possibility of resolution of LARCO is resolution in operation. This ensures that we do not have massive redundancies, as if it were to close, if it were to go bankrupt, the company and that we are going to maintain a company that really has strategic importance and huge development opportunities. This is important to both Greece and in terms of strategy and economics. In the way that the government has adopted, we will be able to modernise LARCO without shutting down and without paying any extra money, which we do not have anyway. I do not want to go into more detail, because rather on Monday the relevant legislation will be tabled, so there will be an opportunity to discuss in depth and width on all the issues relating to the subject. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u9	We continue with the third under number 470/4-2-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Priminal responsibilities of the members of the Government for the continuation of the operation of the Gender Wars after the publication of the polluter studies". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we all knew that in the Race the situation is uncontrollable. We have discussed this here many times too. The studies of pollutants financed by the Municipality of Florida have been kept secretly by the public in drawers of the Mayor of Florida, Mr. Papapis, from 2015 until today. These results had, of course, been announced with leaks in the "Recipients' Newspaper". But the state did not have to act because it was not public. I have made complaints, reports to the Citizens' Coordinator and to the Coordinator of Decentralised Administration, which had given Mr. Papapio by January 20th to hand over the studies. Mr Pappas also handed them over to the Ministerial Council with a protocol number, so that you can have official written knowledge and legal responsibility from now on for all inertia. The situation described in the studies is tragic and I invite you today to announce the timetable for the closure of the Gender HYTA. Make a commitment that in this - as the studies prove - it is now an uncontrolled hug. There will be no waste management in this affected area again. From 1960 to today, we have been doing this management with all the consequences. And I urge you to finally proceed with the integrated recycling system by sorting at the source that has collapsed either - as we have already discussed - in Crete from Heraklion to the east or in Athens in which the recycling waste gas has more than three hours to deliver the recyclable materials. Really give the signal that you will close the Race with a specific timetable, that you will create new landfill sites after complete recycling. In any event, make it clear that any waste management will stop taking place in this place, which bears witness to these effects from 1960 until now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. For the fact that the Race is a huge problem, there is no doubt about it. Everybody agrees. We have debated this before and I have answered a relevant question before, I think, again, to Mr Arseni. It's mutually acceptable. The question is what can be done. It is certain that such a HYTAD cannot be closed within a day, as a shop that creates noise pollution could be closed. You close it and it's over. HYTA cannot be closed unless an alternative is found for what will happen to all the waste in Attica. Otherwise, all Attica will be filled with waste, waste, waste, with consequences that are obvious to health and a lot of other things. To close such facilities, a programming is needed, which in this case takes years. As you know, the previous government has started a process of resolving the waste issue in Attica. Unfortunately, this solution has been suspended and five years in fact nothing has been done. So we returned to 2014 in worse conditions, because the problems that existed had already been exacerbated. The new premise - because we have already answered the Race - is the concrete study of the municipality. I asked her, too, and the municipality told me that there was no. Finally, it emerged that there was such a study. The fact that there is such a study does not mean that this study is also reliable on its own. The fact that someone has done a study, which leads to some conclusions, does not mean that this process automatically makes the conclusions convincing and substantiated. In this case, and particularly in relation to the problem of radioactivity that has taken place in the press, there is a categorical response from the National Atomic Energy Commission that this is not the case, that the study has significant methodological problems, including the use of internationally accepted burden limits. But he has other methodological problems. The most competent body for assessing the issue of radiation contamination states that what is stated in this study is not documented and is not valid. It is also known that toxic and dangerous wastes are not permitted in the Race. And there are also at the gates of HYTAF facilities through which radioactive waste can be detected. So there is a response from the competent body, and there are regulations, which are convinced that this problem is not created. The rest in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u13	Mr Arseni, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the company that did the study is "SPROPOS". It's a subsidiary of the ELPEs. If this company is not reliable, please very much consider all the studies that the environmental conditions for the functions of ELPE and other undertakings made by the same company have been approved by the Ministry. Because, obviously, if a study is not reliable, then others are not. However, on this point, we have the Greek Atomic Energy Commission, which, in the study on the radioactive part, does not question the elements of both heavy metals, dioxins and furans, or benzene, or any other element, which is in itself enough to close the Race. He's talking about the radioactive part and he says that the methodology is not right. I complained to the Greek Committee on Atomic Energy and asked them to go to the Tribe. Do you know what they said to me? That they made him in 2004 at the Ghost dump, which we know is the 'waste mafia', which we know very well that the situation is uncontrolled and you admit it so many times. The Committee on Atomic Energy has not been investigating since 2004 and they are not ashamed to answer this in writing. There should be preventive research every year and they have refused to go into this study at least, which defines two points which they need to check. Wrong readings. Two points. So, as you have received a false answer from the Mayor of Florida, that there was no such study, and finally there was, because it was also published in the newspaper and when the mayor was confronted with criminal sanctions, he published it himself, he made it public, he gave it to the citizens, so I very much urge the Greek Atomic Energy Commission to go for preventive control in this uncontrolled dump, with the "poor mafia" and all that is done in there. It's a matter of public health. I was yesterday at "Democritus". Any polluter enters the Lefkanedi is spreading equally across all areas of the Lefkanopedio, so it is not just the issue of the downgraded western Athens, which I am here to defend, but it is a question of the whole of the Lefkanopedio. It is a matter of health and there are criminal responsibilities. You now have written knowledge and there will be criminal responsibilities from inertia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Undersecretary, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. We have a recent confirmation from the Greek Committee on Atomic Energy that this study is not credible. I did not say that the entity that did the energy is not credible, but that this study is methodologically problematic in other respects. The Committee on Atomic Energy has also assured us that it is not possible to reach radioactive waste in the Race on the basis of the procedures followed. Nevertheless, what you're saying I didn't know it was from 2004 and we'll ask for a more timely autopsy. You're talking autopsy, I guess. It makes sense to me. The problem, however, remains no matter what. As to the others you were saying, for heavy metals, etc., it is well known, there is no doubt that the area is very burdensome. That's what everyone agrees to. There is no need for further discussion. The question is how it can be dealt with and, as I said in my prototype, it cannot be dealt with within one day or one year. The process that has already started is as follows. The regional waste management plan by the region is currently being reformed by the current regional authority. What the region has informed us about is that competition proceedings will begin in 2020 so that three waste treatment plants in the Race, Graphic and Schisto can be started in 2025. That's programming. Until then, we will necessarily maintain the current situation. It does not mean that the Race will close in 2025, because in the intervening period, before the completion of these new stations, there will be opportunities to relieve the Race. What I want to say to you is that in the time the Race is still working, its limits will not be extended. What is to be done will be done within the current approved limits. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u17	Congressman Theodoros Roussopoulos calls for a short-day absence leave abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u18	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here is the third question with number 2658/17-12-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Restoration of injustice in the payment of the withdrawal incentive to the workers of PPC S.A.’ who voluntarily left the company during the period of 1-2-2019 to 10-9-2019’. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. It concerns, just as you read in the title, the restoration of an injustice that happened due to the fact that PPC's CEO did not apply the decision of the board of directors authorising him to do something. In November 2018, a decision was taken by the Board of Directors of PPC that said that those who established the right to a pension with the age limits set by the decision of the Board of Directors until 31 December 2018 and who departed from the decision by 31 January 2019 would have an economic benefit of 5000 euros paid by PPC. It was an incentive, essentially a retirement allowance with specific specifications and characteristics. In the same decision, the CEO was authorised to decide on any extension of the incentive in the next period and in subsequent years. The CEO took advantage of the opportunity given to him by the decision to extend the board of directors, but he jumped a while, in other words, did not apply it to her spirit and her letter of extension, but decided that those who leave from September 2019 now and then for a period of five grand. So an enormous injustice has been committed, which, among other things, is discriminated against which the management board's decision has not given it the right to have it. I would like you, Minister, if you have studied the subject, if you have studied the subject in depth, even if you do not answer it today, if I say it has not already been done, because we cannot properly apply the decisions and retire or give benefits to anyone we want as people who have been covered for a period of time, eliminating another. The decision was specific. And I would like your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u20	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u21	I will not mention what you have already said about the history of the matter. I will only clarify the following that the decision of the Management Board empowered the Director to extend and extend this arrangement, but it did not impose on him an option. From there on, this possibility has been exercised by the new administration and since September. For the interim period necessarily - i.e. on the basis of the existing legal framework - it cannot, on the basis of the original decision, be granted such aid and the possibility of extending it retroactively, to departers who are not covered by a regulation in force at the time they left. I understand that from a point of view it seems unfair. On the other hand, those who left knowing that there was no regulation at that time, left knowingly and had made their account. Furthermore, the issue concerns PPC. The Ministry cannot give an order, saying "do this, do that". PPC is an anonymous company, has its own procedures, these are decided by the board of directors and the director. So we cannot oblige them to do something, which would in any case not be legally correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u23	In my view, the Ministry, as a supervising ministry, cannot wash hands when we have a case that clearly violates the Constitution and iso-equal treatment and equal treatment of workers. Of course, they were aware of the fact that the decision of the board of directors was for a certain period of time, but that it was planned to be possible, as you rightly said, to extend. So, with the possibility of expanding, from the Greeks I know - if you know other Greeks, correct me - you do not jump over time, you do not go to the right place, as my colleague corrects me with the best Greeks. I went to say it quite simply. Can't the principal say: “When will my people retire? So I do it then." The decision of the Management Board was specific. It will either be legal on the part of the Management Board after some agreement of your own, so that it covers the entire period for it to be covered as well - because the CEO did not have the right to extend it from 1 September to 1 September - or it extends from the time it expires or a new decision of the Management Board has to be taken that it is reintroduced from the beginning. Here we have an extension decision, but overcoming a period of time. This decision of the CEO is clearly illegal, from whatever perspective. You can't tell us the government's changed. I did not mention a question of changing government. Here we have a continuity of the state, we have a continuity of the body and of the administration. And because the body is not whoever and whoever, the Greek people support it, the House ensures and your Ministry oversees PPC. I think that's what's going on. Of course, man should take legal action, as it seems, on injustice, and what you said, namely he knew and submitted, does not apply. He submitted, knowing that the administration has a right to expand. So, at any time, if it expands, it covers him. That's the interpretation. The other thing you say is arbitrary, in that it can, for whatever time it wants, make the extension. The decision of the board of directors, Minister, sorry, was talking about expansion and no gaps. That's why I told you not to answer me today. Look at it with legal advisers, it's gross injustice. Unless you want us to send people customers to the lawyers. We also have some here - today I see one - to send clients to lawyers, to go to court. And then we say why the courts are shaking. Since the administration isn't doing its job! There's some supervising minister there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make some clarifications. The Ministry of the Environment is PPC's supervising body, but supervision has specific rules. He can't do anything the superintendent wants. He does what the law gives him to do. In this context, it is not possible to interfere in the functioning and decisions of the Management Board. So that's the responsibility of the board of directors. Secondly, it is not legally possible to apply this arrangement retroactively, but it is also morally unacceptable, because it would involve people who have made specific applications, namely names, which we would say, for those who applied for without the bonus being applied, we give it back to them. What you said that the regulation has been made since September to serve our own people, this is obviously too much, not substantiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u26	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u27	Hey, didn't you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u28	I said, every commander can't say when he's gonna make the setup. This decision is illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u29	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu. Now that's not a process. Let's go by the cafe, have a cup of coffee and talk to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u30	I heard you. You mentioned that the commander made this arrangement to serve those who would come in the future and who are acquainted with his friends, something like that anyway. It's obviously not like that. This is undisturbed and I ask you to withdraw this. From there on, retrospectively, the current data does not appear to be possible. The term 'expansion' also broadly based on the interpretations given to us by lawyers could also cover the way in which this regulation was implemented. In any case, I have no objection to rethinking the possibility - to rethink it, I do not give any commitment - whether by means of new legislation they could be covered, but that is all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Undersecretary, good weekend. You're free to leave. We move on to the second group of questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis. We begin with the first, with the number 454/30-1-2020, a top-level question by the MP of Heraklion, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Evaluation of the extent of the current airport "Nikos Kazantzakis" in Heraklion in consultation and for the benefit of the local society". Mr Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we have learned from the media about a serious development in the region of Heraklion, Crete. With a contract signed recently by three ministers of government, you are one of the three, you give the European Investment Bank a pledge to the size of the fillet - it is your phrase in a previous debate and I will present it in the minutes - of the current airport 'Nikos Kazantzakis' - about three thousand acres on the northern coastal front of the city of Heraklion. First of all, I would like to say - and I consider it to be a negative element - that you have not even bothered to inform the Mayor of Heraklion or the Director of Crete before the conclusion of this contract. And I would like, Minister, to make a few points. Firstly, the full text of the contract is not yet known. Secondly, from what we hear from the press releases of the European Investment Bank, you accepted the money to be disbursed on the basis of a road map to divest the size of the old airport and to find an investor for its renewal. Thirdly, you agreed to interconnect and depend on the economic viability of the project of the new Kastelion airport with the timely utilization of the area of today's airport. And, fourthly, it is a fact - and it is not only about the Mayor of Heraklion or the Region of Crete - that the whole local society is falling from the clouds because there was no prior information, not even a formal dialogue with society and local bodies. And in this respect, I would like to remind you, Minister, that on 7 May 2019 I on the part of the Majority and you, on the part of the Major Response, were rapporteurs for the ratification of the Kastelion Airport Convention and said: "The plot of the old airport is a fillet and it is good to use it. We have made concrete proposals, when we presented our programme as a New Democracy for infrastructure and transport, and these proposals are good - slowly to enter a dialogue process." They have been your own words since the debate. When did these proposals come into dialogue? Why or what bodies did you contact the agencies of Crete or some of the local authorities and did we not understand? Was it air words or was it really dialogue and when did it happen with whom? Will you tell us whether today - or I don't know when - what the contract includes, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u33	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I think that one of the paths of our country's political life is that reasoning sometimes ends up in opposition krone or in a populism that has no basis for reality. Everything you said about a pledge has nothing to do with reality. I fully understand your interest in the airport of Kastelli. I imagine that you, too, should recognise that this government, after about a year and a half of the contract, comes and unblocks the concession you signed so that the precursors can begin. You did well to sign it because you succeeded and escaped your past when you were against the concessions, and that is why we in Parliament voted in favour of it. We believe that both the development of the old airport and the creation of a new airport will play a crucial role in the quality of life in the region and in economic activity. The first thing we were committed to is what we will do about the airport "Nikos Kazantzakis". That's what we said. And what we said as opposition and what we say to all tons as government is that it must not become a new Greek. It must not be repeated as a farce, where the airport left the Greek in 2001 and we are in 2020 and now, in fact, the region's exploitation begins. That is what we have said, Mr President, as an opposition, and in fact we have proposed a specific procedure, the innovation proposals, which we will adopt and which we believe will unblock the process. A few days ago we signed the agreement with the European Investment Bank, of which - and quite rightly - in 2018, because it had no money, the Greek State received 180 million to cover its participation. In practice, what this agreement does - and quite rightly so - is that we are linking the progress of the development of the airport 'Nikos Kazantzakis' to the payment of loan instalments. I'm sad to see some reports about a alleged mortgage. So to return to reality and say that this is not a pledge, it is a mortgage. Unfortunately, you have also fallen victim to this misinformation. Well, let's get this straight, there's no mortgage. That was never agreed. In any case, you should be legally aware that we signed the loan on the basis of the concession agreement, which is the law of the State since 2018. What we are saying is that, in order to make the investment and disbursement of the money from the European Investment Bank, the state must cover some milestones. I'll give an example. The first milestone is to have an official document of the Greek state, in which to recognise that the existing airport will not be used in the future as a political or contractual airport and will be incorporated into the city of Heraklion. This document should be in 11 months' time. If we don't have this document, something very simple, we won't take the dose. I will also put forward the roadmap of the agreement for the record, and I think that clears the misunderstanding that has been made. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] I can answer the other questions you have raised in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u36	Thank you. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Minister may also show overall the Government's perception of how he respects, how he treats local society, local self-government, the positions of local society. However, it is not populism, Minister, to think or to take account of local society's remarks. Of course, I am not surprised by your position, you are absolutely consistent with your positions. I repeat, from the minutes of the May 7, 2019 meeting, in addition to having a dialogue - you did not tell me true to which institutions in Crete you asked for before - you said: "I am pleased that New Democracy has a completely different proposal from the one that SYRIZA has". You say below "We should learn from the mistakes of the past. Not to be used in the municipality debate - a region - a ministry for what will happen, because nothing will happen. It is a proposal - fillet and it is good for her to trust the private sector." Why is it populism not to take the view of local society or local government and is it a serious and consistent proposal simply to trust the private sector? You must respond to this in the local society, which, together with the Prime Minister, will be visiting the region tomorrow. In relation to what you said there was no agreement, let me tell you that the government of SYRIZA has never agreed to interconnect the current area of the new airport in Kastelli with the extent of Nikos Kazantzakis. On this point, Mr Spirtz in plenary said that a committee was already set up by the relevant ministries to have a roadmap for development, but this will come from consultation with local government bodies. I will testify to the Minister's position in the minutes. At the same wavelengths, it was my position, which I do not read for the sake of time, and I will also testify to your position. At the same time, I would also like to table the rapporteur's position at one of the committee's meetings. MEP Heraklion, Mr.Avgenakis, spoke, for his part, about the use of the space for individuals, of course, but in any case he said that it would become a metropolitan city next to the urban fabric with dwellings, buildings, offices, hotels, private boats, because it is next to the sea, etc. And he was talking then. Today it is deafening, I confess, its silence and its absence. The issue, Minister, which I would like and repeat, is how you intend to make use of the extent and when you will make public the contract you have signed with the European Investment Bank. I'd say it's worth seeing the overall picture. Of course, it's getting away from your portfolio. In my opinion - and this is my political assessment - you are mortgaged this area with the contract you are going to sign. Bring the contract to see it and I wish I could be disproved. Better a bad guess than a bad guesser! Next to this area is the port of Heraklion - just next door - which the government is also preparing to sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, thank you. My dear colleague, I think it is understandable that we are talking about the use of a three thousand acres and what I think we should do is avoid the mistakes of the past. After all, the logic is that a country and a political world must learn from its mistakes and I think it is now known to everyone - and we have understood it, and society and politicians - that what happened in Greek was comic-tragic. So what do we say? Here too, there may be a political disagreement. We say that we have four years in front of us to start exploiting it. Again, I disprove you because I have seen Mr Arnautakis in my office with the local bodies and have explained to them that it is the government's decision to become a committee and that the local government is actively involved when the proposals are drawn up. What we have said - and here is our political and ideological disagreement - is that we will call on individuals to make proposals to us, because we are very afraid that, otherwise, the central administration will fight with local bodies, with local government, and time will pass. There is a risk that Nikos Kazantzakis will remain an area unexploited for 15 years. So what is more reasonable than making a specific proposal, which we also made as opposition - we do not do now - and which shows that we want to open up a real dialogue with all the actors. And he says: "Which bodies in Crete do you consult?" Since the consultation has not begun yet. How are we going to consult once precursor work is started? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as the European Investment Bank is concerned, it was you - and quite rightly, in my opinion - that you involved the European Investment Bank. It's a very useful tool. He has helped the country in very difficult times. She's helping her country now. We have signed a series of loan contracts which help to develop infrastructure. And I don't understand why you're sitting right now and saying things that are in complete contrast with what you signed and supported as government. That's why I had a reproach for populism. You signed the concession, and you did very well to sign it and for yourself. Of course, unfortunately, for a year you have not been able to start and unblock the project, which we have done in a quarter. As far as the operation of Heraklion airport is concerned, we have said what we want since we were opposition. We've made a suggestion. It's not inconceivable. We're filing it at the dialogue table. We believe that a new proposal would be to try out a new tool used in other countries of the European Union, such as Italy, and which has been ratified by the European institutions, called innovation proposals. This means that we are also calling on individuals to bring proposals that have been studied, at the cost of studying the benefits and to tell us how we can use this space.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u39	Minister, the rest in the next question, which is similar.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, instead of rejoicing that we want to open the dialogue, we are now in a position to blame us for not opening the dialogue with the local players, which we have already done, because a few days ago I saw Mr Arnautakis and all the interested parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u41	After the signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u42	But the signature was going to happen anyway. It was part of the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u43	Please, Minister, the rest of Mr Kegeroglu's question. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of fifty students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 1st Markopoulou High School of Attica. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now we will discuss the second question with number 478/4-2-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The need to accompany and supplement works by the new international airport of Kastelios, fair compensation and technical adviser to the Municipality of Minos Pedias - utilization of the "N. Kazantzakis’. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u44	The question is similar, Mr President, but not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u45	I said likewise. I didn't say alike.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u46	That is why we are moving forward in a separate debate. I would first like to raise the issue of Nikos Kazantzakis, because I must remind you that in a debate we had on 10 January 2020, namely a few weeks ago, the Minister announced, in fact, the intention of signing a contract on 18 January, here in this House and this is a general briefing on what he intends to do. However, the problem is not whether the signing of the contract was announced and why it was announced. The problem is to see specific things so that they don't become Greek the "Nikos Kazantzakis". I asked the previous Minister, Mr Spirtzi. I didn't get any answers. There was no design, beyond the general commitment and that it would be exploited. So today, I would like my question - if you can answer us, who owns the land and who will be expedited from the state side. Will it be the Ministry of Infrastructure or another body? Of course, the role of the municipality and the region in the consultation follows the start of this process. But we would like you to tell us about this role: the owner, the speedy owner. What is the role of the two institutions? We now come to the new airport, because Nikos Kazantzakis needs to be exploited because the airport activity will be transferred to Kastelli. So, at Kastelli, which has signed the convention and tomorrow, the Prime Minister will be there to put the foundations for a long-term effort, which most of us agree, not all, and it is not even horizontally to know, Mr President, the view in the parties as well as in the parties - that there is a need for them to be named and implemented, and, in fact, at a time when projects are in parallel - accompanying, I am calling them the airport, the operation of the airport, and they are either road or environmentally, waste management, issues relating to water management and irrigation, issues relating to the development of the local area. And I think that the Ministry should make available it should enable the municipality, with its support, to have a technical consultant, a team of experts, which will mature the necessary projects to implement. Of course, I must say that, within the concession contract, there is provision for a procedure for the implementation of these projects. What does the contract say? It says that for projects which have not been designated and which are not the obligation of the concessionaire, the Ministry may assign their implementation to the company up to 50%. So there is no problem of procedure and I do not raise this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u47	The question, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u48	I raise a matter of substance if you allow the municipality to acquire a technical consultant - a group of experts, that is, I do not mean a person - in order to promote these projects and if we have a specific position on the process to be identified and implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u49	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u50	It won't be necessary in the second. I'll say it now. I propose that we begin a dialogue on the conclusion of a programme contract between the municipality, the Ministry and, if necessary, the district, in order to join the necessary projects and to know that they will be implemented so that we do not come to Parliament as much as possible and say 'a, and this work is necessary and the other' or the municipality will be involved each time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kegeroglu, I can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u52	I will save him, Mr President, by the time he has spoken. In this sense, therefore, I propose the programming agreement and a local development plan that can cover it more widely. We have the positive development with the special peasant promised by the Minister for the Environment that it is going on. I'd like you to tell us two more things. If you think or can see at this stage the change in the percentage it has to do with the municipality's right, not by increasing it to the detriment of the concessionaire or to the detriment of any other, but by reallocation to what has been foreseen for the municipality and the region, because, however, there has been "Kallikras" and the communes have united in one, while leaving it in the region. Let us look at the question of the administration posed by the mayor with the other issues - I must say that the municipality has been diligently putting them - and from the past, but especially now, participation in the board of directors in order to be directly involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u53	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu, close. That's not a question, it's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u54	Mini question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u55	In any case, now it is Friday, we have no legislative work fortunately today and I am a little flexible. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of the House of 14 students and students and an educational meeting from the 7th Agia Barbara Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kegeroglu, I will reply first to the question you raised to me, because you have raised many questions now, beyond what we have received and in writing, on expropriations which I think are of interest to the wider region. The relevant department of the Ministry has recognised expenditure for a total amount of EUR 42 million. To date, the payment procedure has been completed for an amount close to EUR 16 million, which is available to beneficiaries and within the next few days the payment procedure of EUR 18,700,000 will be completed, so that it can be made available through the Deposit and Loan Fund to beneficiaries. With regard to the question of fair compensation for the owners, I would like to inform you that the amounts of compensation arise, as in all these cases, from judicial decisions. Now let's go to your general questions. As regards the accompanying projects, Mr Kegeroglu, I think you are well aware that there are very specific and many projects described in the concession agreement. The concession has specific accompanying projects. I tell you attributes a road network which will be long - if I remember correctly - twenty-four kilometres, as well as biological cleansing, which will take place within the new airport and which can serve the areas and municipalities of the surrounding area. Therefore, the feeling at the Ministry is that all these projects have been fully described - so that we are not here and negative in all things - that the concession contract was a full contract, the one signed by the previous government. Now there is an issue, for example, about biological cleansing, how waste water will come from surrounding areas. There the truth is that it is not the concessionaire's obligation - to understand it well and those who listen to us - to buy the pipes and put them there. It's a public obligation. And you are right to say that we should make a programme agreement with the municipality and the district and see such cases that are available, but the cost is not excessive and see how these accompanying projects can be done, so that when the airport is ready to run at the last minute, as we usually do in that country, we should pave things that we should have done. As to who will be expedited - and I answer very quickly - for Heraklion airport. I would ask you to wait for the Prime Minister's visit down to Crete tomorrow, where we will announce several things for both BOAK and N Airport. Kazantzakis’. I think you understand with your experience, Mr. Kegeroglu, that he can't be a fascist, a ministry. There are many ministries involved in the use of "N". Kazantzakis’. And that is a decision that will be taken in dialogue with the local bodies, and this decision will, I think, be made - and I think it will have to be - by the Prime Minister himself, when and if we come to the plan that we want to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u57	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the co-responsible ministries and the stakeholders are many, indeed. The coordinator, the retreat, the leader - as you wish, say him - must be one. I make this request and suggestion so that there can be results and that we do not get involved in coordination.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u59	Orchestra conductor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u60	That's exactly what I'm asking! We do have many issues which are not included in the convention and which could not have been included, not to say something that is not in place. They result in the implementation of a huge project, such as that, needs for complementary projects. Organic cleansing, for example, was predicted for four, I think, five villages around, was not predicted for Kastelli. And that's because Kastelli had a biological one, but it doesn't work. A review should therefore be carried out and I say a specific example. As far as road links are concerned, needs can arise - such as the one we have examined in the previous question with the node at the intersection which is not provided for and which you have been positive - such as the issues relating to water, irrigation and so on. Not to say every time from a project that emerges - neither the municipality nor the region - I think it is very important that you have accepted a procedure for the drafting of a planning contract for a municipality, a region and the Ministry, so that all this planning is time-defined and why do I say it? It provides for the convention that biological is to be completed twenty-four months ago, for testing to be carried out. What does that mean? That we don't have much time, we really need to get things right. So I move on and after the issue of the programming contract, I will raise the question of administration. The mayor's involvement in the management of the institution was laid down in the initial plans. He's gone. However, there is an 11th position, which is a State and a contracting company. What do you think of representation with the mayor in the management of the company? Furthermore, it is important to clarify - perhaps it will be clear tomorrow and with the Prime Minister's presence - the issue that has to do with the name. Obviously, it was a technical terminology referred to as 'New Heraklion'. That's obvious. Things have been proposed. The name "Antonis Triffitsos" was proposed, which was the leader of the Revolution against the Turks in the eastern provinces of Crete. The name ‘El Greco’ has also been proposed. I think we should also move on here, because it is about capacity and what we want to ask for. As far as expropriations are concerned, I have two points to make. One is that there is a problem with the bureaucracy of the legacy. Because I am also a child of a refugee family, I tell you that for all the things that had been given to the refugees - whether they had been given titles or not, we are talking about the well-known consequence of the Greek state - they cannot now be compensated, they can take the sums provided for by the expropriations due to this designation as 'heirs'. We need to see that. Of course, we need to see fair compensation in addition to court decisions for those who are abducted, that is to say, who is taking a large part of their property.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u61	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u62	I'd forget something, Mr. President, with the pressure you put on me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u63	You haven't forgotten anything. I've written it all down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u64	...and I'll have to ask a new question. However, I think that even if the question is incomplete, the answer is complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u65	What you forgot is your promise that you will not exhaust your dentistry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u66	It'll be a full answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u67	What I told you you forgot. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Kegeroglu, you are right that there is biological in Kastelli and that the concession contract for the surrounding villages does not cover Kastelli. In my opinion, we must consider why the biological nature of Castellium is not working properly and not now go to amendments to the concessions contract, because this will create a number of problems. For connections and irrigation, I will fully agree with you. I think that we may be late now - it is time for a real debate to take place on what accompanying projects we have to do. However, I would like to assure you that, especially for road contracts, according to local bodies, the concession agreement covers almost the majority of the interventions to be made. Now I would like to reply very quickly on the matter of the Management Board. The board of directors plays - as was played in the "Eleftherios Venizelos" contract - a very important role in the process of setting up the airport. In other words, the board of directors will not be active after the construction of the airport. The board will also play a role during construction. That is why I would agree with you that there should also be a very serious choice there and we should avoid the dismissals of the past, where we usually choose the wrong persons for very important positions, because in politics, unfortunately or fortunately - unfortunately, in my view - there are many times local pressures. We will consider being the mayor of the board of directors. Honestly, I didn't know it had been proposed before to be and then that changed. So I think it would be very important that the local ruler in the region has a decisive role to play, but on issues that concern him and not on construction issues. We must be clear here. We can't get the mayor to put him at the airport's CEO, because the CEO has to do another job. Very soon, we will be announcing the composition of the Board of Directors and we will see this role, because in my opinion there is a question about whether the role of the board of directors is too heavy, at this stage. There are some differences with the role he had, for example, the board of directors when he became "Eleftherios Venizelos". Let us see, then, whether we can change its role so that it is not really a decorative instrument, because that is what no one wants, on the other hand, does not have any problems and does not want to delay the work. Because you understand that this project that will begin will deal, like all major projects, with several technical difficulties, with a number of problems with the Archaeological Service, with the Forestry. It will address the problems facing all major concessions projects. We are therefore open to dialogue. We want to talk to local actors. We will also look at the issue of leghold traps - I did not know that, Mr Kegeroglu, and thank you very much for bringing this to the attention of the Ministry - to see whether we can proceed very quickly, because this is a public obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u69	Let's go to the first with number 458/3-2-2020 on the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Expiring bus lines from the Organisation of Urban Transport of Thessaloniki (OSTH) to the Joint Bus Receipt Funds (CKEL)". Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I am going to use the Kegeroglou Act.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u71	Yes, I'm just accustomed to the Santa!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, Minister, I hear that tomorrow you will be visiting the Prime Minister of Crete to make announcements on matters relating to your Ministry's competence. The same I would ask you to do in Thessaloniki, but in the face of the core of the problem, which is our thousands of fellow citizens, who are tortured at the OSH and the citizens of Thessaloniki, who are waiting for METRO to be completed, without the paralysing flasks you repeated yesterday. Yesterday, for example, someone had to remind you that film office is not in the metro station, but a few miles above, because you set up for a general secretary a film scene for a film. After ten minutes there was none of the composters and the protagonists. I'm getting to the point. Before I tabled this question, Minister, I was trying to understand why the government was so fierce against Thessaloniki. Of course, the answer comes from the constant oblivious transformations in many things, such as refugee, employment, the tenth, third pension, football, the ultimate state. Everything that led you to power was a combination of demagogy and lies. So why would things be different in OSH? Now, with opaque procedures and in spite of the opinion of Chryssogonos - Koukiades, which with a little beans you tried to include yesterday in the water bill, you are entrusting OSTH's transport work to the CBELs at a cost of EUR 23 million per year for two years, as provided in the Treaties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you had put this money into a plan for OSH, you would have improved the situation, which you demagogically denounced as unacceptable and now you have made it inhumane. Minister, I will close my prototype, saying so. I have the weight right now when I'm talking to you, as long as you're busy with your phone, and I and my colleagues in the First Thessaloniki and the use of the OSTH by us personally, as well as the thousands of people. I'll give you the pictures. [[At this point, Congressman Christos Giannoulis presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here there does not seem to be a threat to stopping a transport operation, which you are using as a pretext for conferring privileged transport services to the CCT. This is where the inhuman suffering of weak citizens seems. Despite your intact political attitude, we have the burden of defending these people. We will do so while you believe that the reintroduction of the corrupt model of the shareholders' OSTH, whose profits have been incorporated into the losses - innovative for Greek data, but that is what you want to bring back - as much as you want to have in mind the reintroduction of the OSTH, which is lost 64 million and no one is concerned in this place, as long as you want to restore the opacity OSTH, we will be here to judge you and control you. The many lies were said before July 7th. It is time for you to assume your responsibilities towards the citizens, who are being tortured and this is not done with such subordinations of the CBC.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u73	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I will start with a friendly advice: beware of the questions you put to us, because with the texts you bring us you set out the facts of your own government. It is really exaggerated, I think, to move our fingers, especially on the issues of OSTH, a OSTH that we received from the state, a OSTH whose revenues from 50 million have fallen to 25 million and the subsidisation of the Greek public exceeds 100 million euros. In four years, in fact, you have dismantled the urban transport, both Athens and Thessaloniki. This is evidenced by the fact that we received an agency that had under 200 buses in circulation. Today, the buses circulating are about three hundred. The fleet is too old. You have not been able to make the obvious, a serious competition, four years in government, to renew the fleet, and now we have this situation, which cannot change from one moment to the next. But what you need to understand is that you're talking about direct assignment, which is illegal. Isn't that what you told us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u76	Are you serious? Do you know what the legal basis of the direct award is? Law that you voted on. Article 47 of Law 4568/2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u77	No, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u78	We're doing exactly what you did. Because, after you have failed with the statisticism, the only statistism that has been done in Europe over the last forty years, you have understood the size of your mistake and you have gone and made a law, which you are now saying that you are privatising the OSTH, that is, 'you're transferring' part of the transport project to the CCEE, and you have also given a very big piece as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u79	Four lines and you twenty-three. Don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Giannoulis, in your dentistry you will tell if he speaks truth or lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u81	I have not interrupted you, I have listened very carefully. Who's lying in this place, we'll see. In fact, the lies you said as the opposition that you continue to say are well known. We are now remembering Thessaloniki's programme. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u82	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u83	We are therefore waiting for a crisis management right now, and I fully understand the tragic situation in which the bus fleet and the incredible suffering passed by the citizens of Thessaloniki, and that is why we are waiting for the Court of Auditors to be approved, so that a hundred buses of the CBELs can get in where they really change the picture on a basis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] We have also tabled an amendment to allow OSH and OSH to make leasing and buy secondhand, in short, buses, until the competition begins, with the money of the European Investment Bank, a tender that you made on the knee two months before the election and was cancelled, not by the Government, but by the Independent Judicial Review Authority, but a tender, which will take us at least twenty-four months to get buses. Because these are the procedures of an international competition, the buses should come to Athens and Thessaloniki. In conclusion, I will say that the size of populism, which we are currently seeing as Opposition, means that you have learned nothing in the government for four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u84	Here, Mr Giannoulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm sorry, but I'll be very respectful to tell you that you're lying. And you lie for two reasons: Use numbers, put them with obvious ataxia, to hide reality. Are 64 million missing or not missing from the OSTH fund since 2015? Were they in the management? First factor. What damage are you talking about? For a body for which, with signatures from your predecessors, what I described - and you have gone through it - was the only case of shareholders who incorporated their profits into the losses, and at the end the Greek people and the public budget were paid. Didn't you hear that? Lie third: Based on the law you have said, but also on the opinions of constitutionalists, who are not friendly to SYRIZA, there is a limit on ministerial responsibility and involvement, as well as on the size of the lines and money that can be made available. You overrun it with the twenty-three lines. Fourthly, what improvement are you talking about? Minister, the buses of the CBEL - you obviously do not know it, you have to come to Thessaloniki for a long time and for the subway ward and for OSH - they will make perimeter journeys outside the center. The buses that will be abundant cannot serve the eagle, the torture, to which you are subjecting citizens every day and under your responsibility. Because, I remember, you had the magic wand, which, after the unrefractory lies and demagogy, would solve within a few weeks or a few months. You said the same thing about the refugee, you said the same thing about a number of other things. What populism and what demagogy? Look in the mirror. I don't know if you've ever used a bus or long-distance bus in your life. I am not saying this to offend you, but the situation is dramatic, to exchange political arrows. To close, I want to tell you something, Mr. Karamanlis. This is not something that the citizens of Thessaloniki are not talking about, and it also concerns you personally. I know you carry a heavy surname. I want to remind you that Constantine Karamanlis broke out in the 1950s the tram. In fact, this was the precursor of the creation of the truly sinful OSTH. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Another Karamanlis, Kostas Karamanlis, with his signature and the signature of ministers, perpetuated the source of the problem, which I described to you, the attitude that goes even today with opaque procedures to entrust the CBEL with transport work, instead of taking new buses or improving the existing ones. So another Karamanlis, Kostas Karamanlis, put his signature on that little, but very substantial treaty, that OSTH remains alive until the metro is completed. So we understand that it is no accident that the other crime you have committed with the subway, the change of plans, when Mr Mitsotakis consulted with his pillow and woke up one morning and said that the metro was changing direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Giannoulis, we're not going to make a historical regression. To the question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u87	Of course, but I have not exceeded one third of the year, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u88	Leave the Kegeroglu law. I don't suppose you want to be his fan.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u89	Minister, we have this OSTH-METRO twine, with a METRO where unprecedented things happen. Yesterday an excellent scientist was fired under the order of Mendoni, Minister of Culture. By order of Mendoni, an archaeologist was fired, because he dared to express his scientific opinion on the plans of shame you present. I referred to two politicians.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u90	And that's what you're closing up with, though, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u91	Of course, Mr President. So now you are a third Karamanlis, the younger man, who is trying to seal this morbid clutch that - I repeat - leads to the torture of passengers. Mr Karamanlis, I know that Thessaloniki has offered unpleasant surprises to your extended time, but now as well. It's Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u92	We saw the elections!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Giannoulis, close up. I won't leave you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u94	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u95	We're not having an ideological conversation now. In the question about OSTH, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u96	I'll be right back, Mr. President, with OSTH...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u97	We agreed, but we went over time since the birth of Constantine Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u98	Yes, but that's where problems start, Mr. President. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u99	Okay. The Greek people gave him the place he was given. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u100	Sure. I'm always committed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u101	They're so unscrupulous about what he's been writing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u102	Calm down in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u103	Calm down, but it's written, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u104	Calm down in the room!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u105	It's such an unscrupulous approach!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u106	Do I see concern? Mr. Levane, how come you're here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Giannoulis, I'll cut time. For the last time I'm warning. You have six minutes and five in protology, they make us eleven instead of five, okay? You're welcome, Minister. But close it, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u108	Minister, I understand your irritation. I want to remind you that Thessaloniki...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u109	I'm a smiler.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u110	Smiling irritation is more painful. I want to remind you that Thessaloniki has offered you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u111	And the "..." are painful!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u112	Minister, please, let it be over so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u113	Don't lose your temper!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u114	The other ministers and colleagues cannot wait, because you want to have the Thessalonica Vendeta! Hang up, please, here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u115	We don't have a vendetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u116	I don't understand what's going on here, you have the impression!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President, Mr Kaklamani, by saying this. In the name of these people who are being tortured, I would like to ask you for this. When the Labraki murder took place in Thessalonica...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Giannoulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u119	Please, Mr President! There was the question and the question of who is ruling this place. To another Karamanlis I will ask the following question, differentiated: why, Mr Karamanlis, are you ruling this place so disastrously? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u120	Obviously, why the Greek people elect him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u121	With a lot of lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u122	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u123	So let us come back to the world of the right speech, rationality and leave the incredible '...' that we have heard. Your word didn't have the beginning, it's the middle and it's the end. You mentioned and we're going back to 1821...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u124	I won't allow you! Mr. President... Mr President, '...' do you accept that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u125	I'll take care of this at the end, despite what you said worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u126	Please! The shuttle says about “...”.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u127	And you made references - and insulting reports - which show...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u128	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u129	They show how you understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u130	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Giannoulis, do you know how easy it is to impose order? You can't imagine how easy it is! Last warning!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u132	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u133	Therefore, I will not be tempted to enter into political controversy with you on matters that have nothing to do with OSH. You do this, apparently because you have to sell something to your electorate. So let's go now to the real numbers, which are obviously not knowing. Do you know how much the voyage cost when it's executed by OSTH? It's 3,93 euros per kilometre. Total cost 68 million. The CATELs are at 1.43 euros the voyage. Total cost EUR 23 million. We, Mr Colleague, have not said anything that is different when we were in opposition. May I remind you what your party said in the period 2012-2015 and how you have internationally known the word 'assuba' and laughed at us all by the European Union? May I remind you what you were doing in the referendum?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u134	How predictable you are, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u135	Do you have the political, really, stature to come here and move the finger on this party, which put the country in Europe, when you with your incredible pirates really risked that country staying out of the Eurozone?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u136	How predictable you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u137	So, as we said, we are against the statisticism you have done. Why? Firstly, because it runs counter to European Directive 1370, which talks about liberalisation of transport routes across Europe. Athens is here, of course, excluded, and it is a question of whether with what you are doing - because you have not even looked at it - you are against the European directive. That is what the European Commission must answer to us. This means that the cost of statism will rise. Also, what you should know is that since 2015, when you came to power, you have never managed to create a strategy for where you want to drive urban transport. You're stuck in your ideoscopy, what did you do? You detained an organization. And what happened? Fleet decreased after the stacking to 50%. The buses that came out on the street were half when the organization was staggered by what was coming out of a sinful OSTH. I also agree with you, as a sinner, that there were huge problems and diseases in the former property regime, which I think I myself and as a opposition have recognised - what you have done created an even greater problem. And the numbers are speaking and you can't question them either you or the government. Because the figures say that the revenues from 500,000 000 fell to 25 000 000 and that the subsidy paid by all Greek taxpayers for the Transport of Thessaloniki today exceeds 90,000 000. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Therefore, we were and are against the stateisation of the OSH. We expect it to be cleared, which should have been completed during your term of office in early 2019, which has not been done to see all these pathogens that you say. There really will be the size of the administration's responsibility for SYRIZA, as well as the political choices you have made. Finally, Mr President, as far as the direct delegation is concerned, I think it is obvious that you have not responded to something very simple: you are accusing us, as you normally do in this Chamber, because we are using a procedure that you have voted on. This shows or the size of the irrationality you have or the size of the populism you have. You choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u138	I too now, knowing and based on wider education, request your approval, Minister, to delete from the Minutes the word you have used. It is therefore deleted from the Minutes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of nine students and students and three of their educational attendants from the 1st Day of Markoulou Medieval Gymnasium (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And now we are entering the third group of questions, concerning the always present State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, with the third with number 475/4-2-2020, topical question for the first cycle of MP, Thessaloniki, the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, towards the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pandelis lack of childcare in Samothraki". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question, of course, concerns the island of Samothrace. It could, however, also concern most of the regions of the country, especially those in which the people's families live. You know, Minister, it is not only that on this island, on the northern island of the Aegean, until Christmas, there were even teachers in high school for the universally tested courses, but also that a few days ago, on the occasion of the recent outbreak of seasonal influenza and the island of Samothrace, the mayor of the island, in consultation with primary education, was forced to interrupt for a few days the operation of the Kamariotissa municipal school, to interrupt the operation of the creative employment centres, but also the operation of the Samothrace children's station. This has led to an extremely serious and dangerous problem: three hundred and fifty children in Samothraki, Minister, currently have no pediatrician, which we consider to be extremely serious. In order to understand the scale of the problem - since you do not know it - then neither this necessary visit by the child is covered for twice a month at the nursery, as is required. What does that mean, Minister? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] It means that families with young children are forced every time there is a health problem with their children taking the line boat - if the weather conditions allow it, because the day before yesterday there was a banner and if this transport works, because it is well known that the traffic problems of this island - are to go across to Alexandroupolis, two hours' drive to visit the hospital or a pediatrician. Anyone who was found these days on the boat of the Samothrace line to Alexandroupolis will see that the boat was full of families and young children going to Alexandroupolis for this reason. Look, this is not the first time that these three thousand people on the island have serious health problems and I would say that it is not the only one, because the health centre in Samothraki is well known. However, according to our question, we are obliged to ask you and we expect a clear answer, Minister, what will you do so that there will finally be a pediatrician on the island of Samothraki and that a very serious problem can be tackled first. Also, what are you going to do with covering the rest of the sanitary gaps on this island? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, allow me first to begin by clarifying an issue which, as shown by the parliamentary scrutiny carried out at the Ministry of Health, is of particular concern to this House and which is one of the recruitments and vacancies. It must be understood that we fully understand the issue of deficiencies and these deficiencies can only be addressed by intakes in empty organic positions. Sadly, however, when certain positions come out of barren positions or no demand, we have to cover the needs and at the last end, at the last part of the country, with other procedures available to us, such as the movement of personnel and the recruitment of ancillary personnel. This is how we act directly, covering to a large extent existing needs and minimising shortcomings. At the same time, however, we are planning a long-term recruitment plan for permanent staff. As far as the Samothrace Health Centre is concerned, the problem is well known and there are problems in other sectors, such as medical, other staff and nursing. The situation we received was indeed marginal. In no case was the smooth operation of the centre ensured, and therefore there was a great gap in covering the health needs of the approximately three thousand people of Samothrace. Today, I can assure you that the situation has improved considerably. We have taken concrete steps to strengthen and, at the same time, to ensure the functioning of the Samothrace Health Centre. The management of the 4th Health Region of Macedonia and Thrace as a competent authority has already proceeded with the planning and implementation of movements of medical personnel from bodies within its competence. These movements have been considered necessary since the notices of appointments of ancillary staff have been issued unreasonably without a doctor, unfortunately interested in covering the post. As also in the vacancy, the attempt to extract a rural doctor from a ship fell, after consultation with the Ministry of Shipping. With regard to the movement of doctors and meeting the needs of the island, a list of annual programming has been drawn up since December 2019, which includes doctors serving in health centres from the Evros Regional Unit to the Kavala Regional Unit, with a view to rotating them. In addition, in the context of the cooperation with 492 Military Hospital of Alexandroupolis, the management of the 4th Health Region managed to strengthen the Samothrace Health Center with a pediatric doctor once a two-month period in order to meet the extremely urgent needs of the island. In addition, I would like to inform you that there have been prior notices on the overall reinforcement of the staffing of medical staff at the Samothraki Health Centre, which, because of their lack of interest, have been atrocious. It should be noted that in 2019 the Samothraki Health Center was designated as "a primitive type I centre", in order to provide financial incentives to attract doctors and to be able to solve the operational problems of the health centre. Acknowledging the need to cover the location and given that there is no pediatrician on the island, we have already contacted the Medical Association of Evros and expect, following an invitation issued by the club, to cover the position of a child with a "block". And we expect the process to progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories twenty-one of students and students and two of their educational attendants from the 13th Kallithea High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I'm going to do a petty crime, because I see my colleague, Mr. Lambroulis, next to Mr. Delis. Listen to me, Mr. Undersecretary. They will never find specialist doctors for such islands, who are not only Samothraki, unless we dare in here by a decision of three hundred - zero to make a very brave decision that whoever, for example, is a pediatrician in Samothraki chooses and is appointed after three years as curator II in a hospital of his choice. Put that incentive in, and you'll tell me whether or not you'll find qualified doctors, young doctors, even go. Because the financial stimulus you said, Mr. Secretary, was first applied and failed to do so. Because the extra payroll goes to rent a house, if they find it, to stay and to the rest. I repeat that this can only be done by a very brave decision which, in order not to say things that will not apply, must be supported by all parties. Put it in your head. I and George Lambroulis will discuss this in private. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, since you are older than me, you will remember, of course, that there were such incentives before and were used to some extent...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u144	Not so bold. They were receiving molecules.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u145	In the last decade, however, they have literally been'spected' on the basis of public health policy by all governments. In any case, I have heard the Minister express his understanding of the problem. We have no intention of questioning these feelings, of course, Minister. However, it is not enough. Because the problem is a big one. Nor, of course, are we and the people of Samothrace satisfied with the answer you gave that a pediatrician will visit the island every two months. So, they're gonna wait for the kids two months, see them not to get sick and plan their illness on the basis of the child's visit? We think that it is not - let me be - serious about dealing with this problem. In any case, in general terms, let us be honest, Minister. It is not the lack of incentives, it is the lack, if you like, of a philosophical policy in the field of health, which, of course, has been deprived of in recent years of those resources that need to be available, so that the health needs of the Greek people in any part of the country are fully met. Minister, we said earlier that because we are talking about the children's shortage on the island of Samothrace, it should not be considered that the rest of the health care of the island is fine. Not at all! All in all, it could be said that public health in Samothraki is ill and severely ill. I imagine you, too, know that as far as the Samothrace Health Center was concerned, which was built in the stream, after that catastrophic September 2017 flood, because I went and saw it with my own eyes - there was nothing left of the ground floor. This health center is not working, and at the moment, Kamariotissa's rural hospital is working down the sea for those who have gone, where there are three doctors and a rural doctor. This means that the island's on-calls can't be covered on a 24-hour basis. Of course, here comes the 4th Health Region - as you said - and in any case obliges a doctor to move every four days from Kavala, when from Xanthi, when from Komotini, when Evros to go to Samothraki for four days, so that the on-call cycle can operate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the problem is real. There's an issue with the Health Center. Because - as far as we know - there is the relevant budget, but the space has not yet been found to rise. It's urgent. And, of course, there is also a lack of drivers for the island's ambulance. Finally, and to close, because we like to be disciplined in our time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u146	You've been starting to spoil lately, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u147	I'm hanging up. I think, Minister, that for the support of new couples, the support of children is good, and the thousands are good, both grand that the government has decided to give, people will get, but that is not enough. More combined measures are needed than the state of health for children, since they will be born until they grow up, for their education, for their children's stations, for their care and unfortunately few steps are taken in this direction. What also lives in the people of Samothrace is to assert these demands and rights on an equal footing. And claim them racing, because it is not possible on an island of three thousand inhabitants in 2020 for there to be no pediatrician.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u148	Mr Contozamanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delis, I didn't say I understood the problem. We have said that we recognise the problem and work towards resolving the issue. And there are indeed problems not only to cover the position of the pediatrician but also other medical specialties. That is why there is a specific programme to meet the needs of the whole island. Indeed, the greatest problem is the pediatrician. We are trying in every way - it is not that there are pediatricians and we do not send - to meet the needs of the island. The President quite rightly said that perhaps we should be more bold about the motives we should give or force doctors to go to remote and barren areas. Unfortunately, many times only economic incentives seem to have not worked. But fortunately, incentives that have been given in recent years, such as moleculosis and indeed the possibility of moving to hospitals of large urban centres, have given solutions in such cases. In any case, we are trying to meet the needs of the island, especially as far as the children are concerned. And of course we don't stop with the coverage that exists right now. We're trying to have more child coverage on the island.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u150	We move to the fourth under number 469/4-2-2020 on the first question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Priminal responsibilities of the members of the Government for the continuation of the operation of the Gender HIT after the publication of the polluter studies". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, we have also discussed with the Secretary of State for the Environment the respective responsibilities. As you know, the studies of the HYTA Race, which were hidden in the drawers of the Mayor of Race from 2015 until a few days ago, were made public only after, following the recommendation of your colleague Mr. Levanios, I went to the Coordinator of the Decentralised Administration of Attica, and reported a breach of duty to the Mayor of Florida. He had to deliver them by January 20th. He had to hand them over. We also made reference to the Citizens' Counsel, but also to the Greek Atomic Energy Commission. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I have submitted the studies to the Ministerial Council. You have them personally in your hands. These studies demonstrate that there is a direct danger to the health of the citizens since the continued operation of the Gender CYTA and that we should now look at the effects of citizens' health to date from the current operation of the Gender CYTA. I would remind you that this dump - which in practice works uncontrollably - has been in place since 1960. That is to say, we are not going to close any more or less sixty years of its operation. The effects are cumulative. There's no family in the Gender that doesn't have cancer victims. Pancreatic cancer for some reason is growing too much in Petroupoli. There is an epidemiological study that substantiates the gigantic differences in carcinogenicity in the western suburbs in relation to the rest of Attica and Athens. This is now going to the level of criminal responsibility. And I'm closing up with two questions. Do you commit the Gender to close immediately for health reasons? And what measures will you take to restore, compensate the citizens whose health has been affected and who have lost members of their family since the uncontrolled operation of the Gender HIT?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, the Ministry of Health has to perform its role as guardian of public health in the country and this is happening in any case and cannot change. With regard to any issues arising from the operation of the HYTA in the Municipality of Florida and relating to public health, I can assure you that where the Ministry of Health is involved there will be no discounts. I would like to make it clear, however, because I think that the question you ask escaping the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The responsibilities of the Ministry of Health are very specific and in no case can we derogate from them by substituting them by law as competent bodies such as the Ministry of the Environment, the Region of Attica and the Municipality of Flora. For the substance of the public health issues you raised, the Department of Public Health of the Region of Attica is responsible. Even in the event of a complaint to the Ministry of Health, our competence is, in fact, to refer the matter to the public health department in the region, which carries out the autopsy and draws up the relevant finding. In any case, however, one of the environmental conditions set out in the decision concerning the involvement of the Single Inter-State Association of Attica and the CYTA, which is the responsibility of the RIS, is to draw up an epidemiological study in order to identify the effects on the health of the residents on the functioning of the CYTA, and this study should be submitted to the relevant department of the Ministry of Health for approval and evaluation. So in any case we expect the results of this epidemiological study under way so that we can proceed, as set out by the environmental conditions of a relevant decision of the Ministry of the Environment, in an assessment of the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u155	Minister, to be honest, I don't understand what you're saying. The Prime Minister, the President of your Government, went to the Florida HYTHA, and said Athens was sitting on a sanitary bomb and you're waiting for the epidemiological study? You are currently officially involved in two studies that have not been carried out by anyone, but by the company "SPROPOS", which is a subsidiary of ELPE. And do you have two studies that substantiate a huge health risk and wait for the epidemiological to act? Otherwise, you don't have responsibilities, but will you act if the epidemiology comes? I think that the cover-up and avoidance of responsibilities and the necessary action for the Race has reached its limit. We're going to file complaints on the matter. You have criminal responsibilities and you must act today. Coming here and telling us that you don't have any evidence is funny. Ask at least your Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, let me remind you that the current government, even when it was a forceful opposition, had raised the issue of both HIT and waste management high among its priorities. So under no circumstances can you tell us that we are not taking the necessary steps or that we are not dealing with the matter. I told you that some things evade the health ministry's responsibilities. As far as our Ministry is concerned and in cooperation with the relevant bodies, we will do everything necessary to protect public health and the health of the citizens of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Minister. We now move on to the fourth question under number 459/3-2-2020 on the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Health, on "Accelerating procedures for the construction and completion of the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u159	Madam President, thank you. Mr. Ministers, believe me that I was coming in a very good mood, because the Thessalonians have been uniting them for decades, and uniting us, regardless of political options, because it is a need for the city, the need for new couples, who, when their baby has 39.5 fever, want to find the possibility through the coordination of paediatric clinics in a single place to provide the necessary treatment. It was our government - and this would have to be used for a period of time - that Alexis Tsipras, who, on March 21st, had alongside Andreas Xanthos and Paul Paul Polakis, co-signed with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which we thank publicly for the grant of 250 million, which was made available after the Komotini Hospital and after the cyclotronies of "Evangelism" he was dominated by the building, construction and operation of the Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. Let me just remind you of my humble contribution, that on this issue in January 1918 I had tabled a question and answered me, from where Paul is now, in relation to the placement of the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. Anyway, this brings together both the deal between local government and the Church and all the institutions of the city. I told you that I was in a positive mood because the issue and the concerns began - and I have before me the post - since October 2019, in your term of office, where the Medical Association of Thessaloniki pointed out that Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, even though he came to Thessaloniki three times, even though he referred to the big projects, no mention did, speaking, not say a word about the Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. Yesterday - I do not know whether it was my humility that happened with the question I put for the first time in the last 15 days - and the question is clear. Minister, there are important publications, such as the newspaper "LELLERIA" from Larissa and reports from SYRIZA's health officer. What exactly do you want to do? While we have ensured that the two hospitals, that of Komotini and the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki, will you be completely public hospitals, do you put a vehicle that is PPP, public-private partnership and then private-law legal persons and then private insurance companies and then "do you have money? You're alive. Don't you have one? At the place of turf and refreshment!’ A benefit of a private body - and while we had ensured that it would be exclusively public hospital - the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is converted into a vehicle, to pass this neoliberal obsession, in relation to the entry of private insurance companies. I wish now that you were going to take the floor to tell me that no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Say it, though, make sure. Make a commitment to this story. Why a good, a manna from heaven that came in the time of the memorials, who didn't have the money, after thirty years we set it in front, we navigate, we design it, and now you turn it backwards. Andreas Xanthos had announced that we're ready, the construction starts, and here's nine months and nothing has happened. We don't say it, the badly trusted opposition. It's the Thessaloniki Medical Association. And please very much, it is a post: "Don't worry about the Paediatric Thessaloniki. The Medical Association of Thessaloniki has requested the Prime Minister to speed up and coordinate the request for decades." I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Don't answer me. Answer your own Medical Association of Thessaloniki. [[At this point, MEP Alexander Triantafylides submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you for tolerance and understanding, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Triantafylides, I will answer you, if you please, on the legal status, although we will discuss it when the ratification comes. Your question is not about the legal entity of the hospital. Your question concerns the development and progress of the bureaucratic procedures for immediate implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u162	Acceleration.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u163	But I will answer you, I have no problem. First of all, let me say that all the donations from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation - until last week, we have asked the House for concrete donations from this large 'Health Initiative' programme and for the next week others to be ratified in this House - have received a broad consensus from the Greek Parliament. It is very important, and we first stressed it, that you have finally returned to the right path. I was reminded by Stepa that it was your party that had voted against the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the Culture Centre in Kalithea. Last night, in the presence of the Prime Minister and Mr Xanthos and Mr Polakis, the programme of the "Health Initiative" programme was presented, of these very important projects. Under no circumstances did we say that the work of the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki will not proceed. I am referring to your question, because you are talking about the evolution of the course of bureaucratic tenders. It is, in fact, a great project, the Paediatric Hospital in Thessaloniki, because there is no complete pediatric hospital beyond Athens. There are only paediatric clinics and it is important to gather all of them into a single structure. It is a project that must leave us - and this appeared in the resolution of this programme - over and above parties and political controversies. That is why the first time we took over power, we ran the procedures. The ratification of the Hospital of Thessaloniki is due to be passed in May. It's all on the way. We are always in the programming, after consultation and cooperation with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. These are publicly known. In fact, we have made a great deal of progress in the completion of some advances in order to start projects. We fully cooperate with the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, which is due to this donation, and we ensure in every way that we comply with the agreed timetables and timetables. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] There are some things about the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. It's the upgrading of the road network. The final design and form of the proposed nodes has been completed and the environmental impact study has been prepared, which, following the procedures of the Greek State for the environmental licensing of the project, is at the stage of the audit by the decentralised administration. We are within the time frames that have been predetermined in order to come to ratification, and I repeat, if I remember correctly, in May in the Greek Parliament this donation. With the cooperation of the Municipality of Pylaea - Chortiatis and the relevant services, we have dealt with practical problems, such as urban, water supply, water supply and licensing of the adjacent to the hospital and so forth. You therefore understand that there is a significant number of bureaucratic issues ahead of us, which we have launched without delay. In relation to the rules of operation and the establishment plan of the new hospital, I have to tell you this: next week, the sub-contract for the Komotini Hospital is being ratified by Parliament, a similar hospital in terms of how to operate, build. They're digital hospitals both. They provide new and upgraded services. They respect environmental conditions, specific specifications. Immediately afterwards, we will focus on completing the writing of the regulation and the organogram for the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. This was said yesterday at the meeting of the coordinating group of the "Health Initiative" project, which took place in the presence of the Foundation and the political leadership and stakeholders, following the presentation at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. I mean, the legal form of the hospital will be a legal person under private law. In no case, however, does that mean that the citizen will be deprived of his access to a public structure. The hospital's public. In your area you have the Papageorgiou Hospital, which is a legal entity under private law. Each Greek citizen enjoys the services of a public hospital. Under no circumstances does the legal form of the hospital have anything to do with what you were saying, that we are privatising the provision of health services and that there will be extra costs for citizens when they have access to these services. The opposite is true. This legal form facilitates the hospital to have flexible procedures in order to offer better and more health services. And the Union is a corresponding example. In no case, then, do what you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes. Try to keep the time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u165	Uh, I'm gonna need the two extras the Minister spoke to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u166	I gave you the time before, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Madam President. I was wondering, 'I'll say it'. You finally took it out of your soul and said it: private legal person. Why, Minister? What do you regulate as government? Do you arrange for your personal property? Where did you find it from the Komotinis Hospital, which will be built with money from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and the Paediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki, which will be built with the corresponding donation, when we ensured with the coordination of Alexis Tsipras and with the agreement prepared by Andreas Xanthos and Paul Paulakis that they will be public, legal entities governed by public law? You're changing that. And you do that, because it is what I told you, unfortunately. Ultimately, you want to make all these legal persons of private law. Because the PPP series is public-private-private-sector cooperation, then private-law legal entities. Then we open the vehicle and get the private insurance companies inside. At the end of the day, we tell the citizen of Thessaloniki, Komotini, Greece: "You have money, you live. You have no money, you have no lawn and no refreshment." This is the ideology and ideological obsession of the New Democracy. Regardless of this, aren't you fans of the succession of governments and the continuity of the state? Why are you changing an agreement that has been achieved and safeguards the public interest and citizens? Because next to the public interest you put next door, next to the private interests and open wide doors, windows, bouquets to enter and diagnostic centers and insurance companies etc.Huh? Why are you doing this? Who gave you this right? Did you ensure this by electoral means? Let me tell you one more thing that has been said in public: When they asked - I do not know whether the Stavros Niarchos Foundation or any other institution - 'well, these communists, you private people, Latsis, Niarchos etc., what are you going to do and give them money to make public hospitals and stories'. The answer of one of them was: 'Why do they not steal.' You understand, Minister, what are you doing? We open the doors, that is, in private insurance interests and together we have messengers, remulsions, CEDEFOP, "NOVARTIS" and everything else similar to diagnostic centres that make no sense. Mr. Kontozamani, normally what unites us - unites all of Thessaloniki and all of the world - the Paediatric Hospital must be done immediately. You didn't answer me, because the Thessaloniki Medical Association has concerns and concerns, because Mitsotakis never came to Thessaloniki, even though he didn't say a word about the Pediatric Hospital of Thessaloniki. Yesterday, we just had the first meeting. And what you're doing is repeat what we did. The signature Tsipras - Drakopoulos fell on 21-3-2018 and then the placement took place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing, Madam President. It's not bad to make mistakes. It's not bad to make mistakes and recognize them. See refugee. The greatest evil is to make mistakes with the signature "Kyriakos Mitsotakis".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Triantafylides, I think your imagination is a little angry, because you've caught a lot of issues here, from the legal person of private law, you've reached the remulas. I mean, only charges you haven't told us. Unfortunately, you are mistaken about the concept of the legal person of private law, as are other concepts. You are disturbed by the word 'private', the public-private partnership, because, unfortunately, for us, human value is beyond all idealism and we do not have any idealism. As far as the legal entity of the hospital is concerned, - ask - whether it is a legal person governed by private law or a legal person governed by public law does not change the public character of the hospital, because it remains a body of the general government. The hospital's public. Neither private insurance nor all that you have dreamed of will come and you think there is a concrete plan to implement. The legal person of private law enables such an ornament to function more flexiblely, better, offering better and more quality health services. Under no circumstances does the publicity of the hospital change. The hospital remains in the state and operates under the state and every citizen will have access. Clear them up in your mind and you will see at the end that you will follow the road, which we followed first and have worked. It is very important that after so long you have managed, overcoming your ideological strangles and ideologies, to vote for this great donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and to defend it. Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u170	We signed it. What are you talking about? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u171	If no one knew you, if anyone listens to you or sees you, he will think you are a Member of the New Democracy. It is very important that you at last recognize the contribution of these donations to the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u172	The Thessaloniki Medical Association...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u173	And you come and you forsake us that we haven't done anything. We've kept the timelines at the hospital. We have voted for this agreement in the Greek Parliament and it comes to ratification and there are specific points of order, which need to be preceded by ratification, which, as I said, we are doing at the moment in order to vote on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u174	You're changing the terms of the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u176	But it's a public hospital. It doesn't change to anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u177	It was public by now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u178	You're confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u180	Why do you make it a legal person of private law?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Colleague, let the Secretary-General answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u182	It's a public hospital. Is the Papageorgiou public? Is she a legal person under private law? Have you paid Papageorgiou? Have you been? Don't mess it up. Finally, get the fuck out of here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u183	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. The first question under number 2770/20-12-2019 is the question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irenis Agathopoulos to the Minister of Health, entitled 'Equivalent access of transgenders to health services without discrimination'. Please, Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the issue we are discussing with this question is not the same size as the PPPs and the new model that you are promoting in hospitals, nor the shortages of medicines we have seen in the previous period. The question we are discussing today relates to a small social group, in which, in fact, we are not very often talking about Parliament, which, however, has proved to be too many obstacles to access to health services and not only of course to health services, since the trans people for whom the question is, most of the time, face discrimination both in work and in education and in social life as a whole. But here, today, we are talking about the health issues that today's question - among others - is a very good example for all those who did not vote for the Constitution's revision to Article 5(2) on the elimination of discrimination and on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, but also the change to Article 21(3) on the universal access of all people to health services that no surplus has been that reference and it is about a real need to include all the social groups and even the smallest in 2020. Those of us who have lived close to the concerns of these people are well aware of the discrimination that really exists, and I shall mention a few examples, Minister, in order to understand what we are discussing today. In addition to the common health needs that all of us have for trans people have more specific needs, which are extremely necessary for normal life - such as hormone therapy, to which they must go - but which are not compensated by the national health system, as opposed to other countries. Furthermore, it is very important that many times they also face medical situations that bring them into a very difficult position, because they are situations linked to their biological status, which may differ from that of their gender identity and where problems start. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I'm gonna need a second more. For example, Minister - you will know - a trans woman may need a prostate exam and a transon man may need a mastography and other gynecological examinations. There, therefore, they are faced with the bureaucracy of electronic prescribing, which does not have such a prediction. But many times, however, can also be received verbal or other abuse and transfusion behaviour, so that many times they don't even want to go to health services. And the question, Minister, is that despite the resolution of No 4491/2017, which was an important step towards the recognition by the Greek state of these people, there have been many loose ends and many of them are also about your Ministry. A working group was set up at the Ministry of Health in cooperation with community organisations, which presented a conclusion to resolve some key issues. And the question is if you are going as the head of the Ministry of Health to see this finding, to use it and to give health access to these people without discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, my colleague. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Agathopoulos, I could answer one word in your question. Yes, we know that, and indeed this finding, the results are based on real facts and they also touch aspects of international law. Let me have two words. Equal access for all citizens to quality health services without obstacles and without discrimination is a principle which is unnegotiable to the current government. We are trying to produce the right thing, the necessary legislative work and, at the same time, to implement actions and policies which ensure in every way the right to access every citizen without discrimination to the necessary health services. The conclusion of the working party on the health coverage of transgender people is being carefully considered, because there are technical problems that we need to solve. For example, the process of electronic prescribing and the problems that arise due to the possible gender mismatches with the gender identity of the individual. Legislative initiatives - I mentioned this to you - we will in any case take to ensure this right of access to health services for every citizen. Training for staff is a major issue mentioned in the conclusion. There are procedures for continuing education and training. Hospitals and other bodies of the Ministry of Health have the appropriate mechanisms for implementing such training programmes. The coverage of medical operations is an issue that needs to be discussed and a solution found. We are prepared to raise this issue and to launch solutions. Let me make it clear once again when it comes to the health sector that sensitivity to human rights is lacking. We are next to all people and the policies we serve meet the needs of all citizens. We will find ourselves hard to deal with any phenomena of exploitation and abuse of the human entity, and we will ensure this by all means and by legislation. The protection of the human being, from the baby you are still referring to in your question, to the elderly, is our basic ideological principle. It is our political choice and there are no discounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, too. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u190	Minister, what you say is that human rights are not in color. Of course, the New Republic's new Legislation concerning the LGBTK community did not vote for them in the previous period. It is also to your credit that we agree that these people are facing very serious problems and that neither the hormone therapy they are called upon to do nor the gender redefinition interventions that some choose and some do not, are lifestyle interventions, but a real need. Here I would like to tell you that we must very directly take steps to put these treatments between the treatments that the public pays. Transgender people worldwide are a very small proportion of the population. It is a question of over 2%, and so is Greece. So this figure is negligible to say that this cost can be excessively borne by the state budget. In addition, in recent years internationally, steps have been taken to destabilise these people, particularly at the initiative of the World Health Organisation, which in the new ICD list of diseases has removed gender ID disorders from mental disorders, has simply renamed them as a "sex-agreement" and is now a simple medical situation, which exists as a diagnosis precisely in order to be able to be associated with the prescribing of hormone therapy preparations and surgical interventions. However, ICD-11 has not yet been implemented in Greece, and one question is when Greece will begin to implement it. Also, in other countries - and we can take examples of these, Minister - hormone therapy and surgery are compensated. I'll give you a few examples. It is Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom. So there is experience that we can use. You said you would promote the next period of change in e-prescription. I think a simple exception to a small number of recipes where the filters can have gone, I think it would be a great help in this situation. You have also noted that the training of medical, nursing and administrative staff is very important. There are educational programmes that are internationally recognised for this work. Of course, the dialogue must also be opened for legislation on 'intersex' - 'intersex' infants, as you mentioned - and for the prohibition of corrective surgery to restore their gender to neonatal age. There was a proposal in the previous period to set up a multidisciplinary committee to make these decisions. Let's get her back together, let's talk about her again. These issues require serious discussion and agreement between us, so that we can help these people. I will submit to the Minutes for your own convenience a draft law by the Inter-State Support Association, which, as far as I know, have asked for a meeting with you, and it would be good to see them. We have a lot to learn from these people. [[At this point, the Member, Irene Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I think that the main prerequisite for going through all the next steps is to make legislative interventions in earlier legislation in which there are expressions which do not suit these people, to destabilise them, and then move on to legislation which is very important in terms of access to health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. I just want to emphasise once again that a modern democratic society must ensure equal and unfettered access to health services and that is what we have done. Let me remind you of our initiatives by 2014, of the previous New Democracy government, when it comes to accessing uninsured health services. I should like to remind you of a recent joint ministerial decision that, in comparison with the past, ensures access to health services for asylum seekers and refugees, namely vulnerable groups of the population. And I would like to stress once again that the conclusion of this group is taken seriously into account in order to take the necessary steps to ensure that citizens have access to health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the second with number 1338/18-10-2019 question of the circle of petitions - questions by the MP Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Reconstruction of the country's health regions'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, if you wish, in order to gain time, I will simply remain in my question in my prototype, a question which does not concern the shortcomings that may exist - and there are too many, believe me in Corfu too - but essentially your philosophy and strategy on health. The regional formation of the health area was carried out by the government of Costas Simitis with Law 2889/2001. Since then, the country has been divided into seventeen sanitary regions corresponding to the thirteen administrative districts, with the exception of the three PCIs of the Attica Region and the two PCIs in the regions of Central Macedonia and the South Aegean. The PESY of Ionian Islands, from the first day of its operation until the moment it was abolished and incorporated into the 6th Patra-based Health Region, offered many positive services in the organization and operation of our island hospitals. Unfortunately, with Law 3527/2007 on the Government of New Democracy and Minister Dimitris Avramopoulos the PESY of Ionian Islands was abolished, as was the case with other PESHs, and their number was limited to seven sanitary regions. Electorally, both in the New Democracy programme and in its position, the Prime Minister himself committed himself to the re-establishment of thirteen health regions. On 20-5-2018, at a development conference in Corfu, he mentioned the issue of health regions as follows: "I have pledged that the country needs thirteen sanitary regions within the limits of regional structures, not decentralised administrations. You know, it is paradoxical to have thirteen elected regions, to have seven sanitary regions, but, look out, they do not overlap with decentralised and every ministry having its own different decentralised organisation." These are the words of the current Prime Minister. So we in the health regions, but also in the organization of the Ministry of Health, are clear. We want thirteen sanitary regions on the border of the elected regions. You ask, Minister, what is your Ministry's plan for the sanitary structure of the country? One is that. And the second question is whether the Prime Minister's commitment to the re-establishment of the three sanitary regions will eventually be implemented by your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Biaghy, we did say that we were thinking of changing the number of health regions so that they could be identified with the administrative regions. First of all, we must not only concern ourselves with the number of health regions, but also how they operate and operate. I would remind you that in presenting, at the end of our election programme, we have not clearly mentioned this division, the break-up of the health regions into thirteen. There are malfunctions. I will give you the example of the Ionian Islands, because you are also from Corfu. You are well aware that the tertiary incidents from Corfu are carried out in Yannina and the incidents from Zakynthos and Kefalonia are carried out at the tertiary University Hospital of Patras. So should we go build a new structure, new buildings, staff on the Ionian Islands, a structure, when the health needs of that region are differently covered? Indeed, there is one issue with regard to the extent of certain health regions. For example, the 6th Health Region from Corfu to the Molas really is an vast health region and needs improvements in the way the health regions operate. I wanted to introduce in terms of the state of the health system and the health region, and to end up I will go directly to our design and that we are thinking about doing. I will just say that to date the system of prevention and primary health care has not been fully developed. Our system is still a hospital, citizens are having access problems, and there is a lack of coordination between the services offered, and that is exactly what we want the health regions to do and there is a substantial decentralisation of the health system. Because at the moment we have only regionalisation of the system, not decentralisation. We want there to be clear and certain responsibilities in health regions and the Ministry of Health to effectively exercise its final and strategic role. It is therefore obvious that Greece is faced with major challenges, so there is a need for a comprehensive policy planning, from primary health care to secondary and meta-society care and rehabilitation. The redeployment of the health map is therefore an objective for us and the design of services and the interconnection of services at primary, secondary and tertiary level are under way and complete. The design aims to get a strong primary health care, finally to enable hospitals to provide quality and effective health services, to be able to have access to them, without obstacles, and, of course, to have an integrated post-mortem care and rehabilitation services. In this respect, there must be an interconnection of primary, secondary, post-Social and long-term health care structures. We are creating, by talking about changing the health map, new uses in hospitals such as patient, geriatric and comforting care units and new services such as home care. Because health services should also be provided outside hospitals. We are also fully reorganising the accounting and administrative functioning of hospitals and, at the same time, moving towards changing the procurement system so that they become more flexible, faster and more economical for the state and we are creating an organisation aimed at evaluating health services, improving the quality of health services and assessing the needs and services provided in each region of the country. In this integrated new design, therefore, the health regions will play an essential role in deciding on administrative, operational and economic issues relating to the operation of the whole complex of health services, not only hospitals, but also in procedures, as I said before, concerning the interconnection of primary, secondary, tertiary, postnatal and long-term care. Of course, there are other things here, such as the emergency care system, where we are talking about strengthening the EMCDDA and the operation of autonomous emergency departments and creating modern, independent and specialised trauma centres. To conclude, health regions have a role to play in our new planning. They will not be thirteen, but they will be flexible and effective, in order to cover all the necessary health services that every citizen of the country must have at his disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, too. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think that the people of the Ionian Islands region will not be so pleased with the reply you have given to our timeliness. And I say it won't be - and I, if you like - because today, in fact, with what you said, we're falling from high to low. I have here - and I will present it to our Secretariat of plenary - the speech of today's Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, at the Conference of International Development Days on 20 May 2018. In this speech Mr Mitsotakis quotes: ‘I have heard the other proposals for the road section, which I understand is still in trouble. I am committed to the issue of health regions that the country needs thirteen health regions within the limits of regional structures, not decentralised administrations. You know, it is paradoxical to have thirteen regions and have seven sanitary regions, but - beware - they do not overlap with decentralised ones. And every ministry has its own different decentralized organization. We, therefore, are clear on the issue of the health regions and on the organisation of the Ministry of Health. We want thirteen sanitary regions on the border of the elected regions. We believe that in this way we will also be able to create the necessary geographical overlap, so that the next day we can go through more easily in regional self-government as well. Imagine how important this is for the Ionian Islands Region and its morphology, Minister. And Mr Mitsotakis continues: 'But for this to be the case, the limits of the health regions must be identical to the limits of the regions. And that is something that, friends and friends, we are prepared and determined to do." That is the reason for today's Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, in May 2018, Minister. And you are actually coming here today to overturn your commitments to the people of Corfu and the people of the Istanbul. You come here today to say that the health regions in your planning will indeed play a very important role, but 'I am sorry, they will not be thirteen', what the Prime Minister said at the time for his reasons. You are basically making the Prime Minister's logic that all regions and responsibilities should be identified so that they can go further to grade 1 and 2 of local government. If this is how you do not weaken the Ionian Islands Region, then what are you doing, Minister? Explain what you're doing. In any case, we have a classic example of the economic regions that existed between 2001 and 2007. There was a Health Region of the Ionian Islands, Minister. Tell us the conclusions you have drawn, because the conclusions we have about the operation of the ERC at the time are quite different. It was working perfectly. There was no problem with the whole Ionian Islands region. Today, Minister, you come and you're actually trying to say that it's very big, it's actually huge, if you want, the 6th Health Region, but we won't break it up, as we have said before, in our planning. I just want to tell you that the 6th Health Region, to which Corfu, Mr. Deputy Minister, belongs today, comprises four regions. It is the Peloponnese Region, the West Greece Region, the Epirus Region and the Ionian Islands Region. It is immediately understood - and it is well known to the Ionian people - that a commander has not even passed. There are commanders who have not passed through the Ionian Islands, Mr. Undersecretary. From the 6th Health Area has never passed. Or went through Corfu, which is the seat, if you like, of the Ionian Islands Region, once. If here we are not actually circumventing the principle of proximity, then what do we do? Can you explain? And in any case, what is the logic with which you come today to overthrow your election commitments? What are these? A cherry on the cake coming back, in order to thank the inhabitants of the Ionian Islands region for supporting you today and you are government? Is this your commitment to the local society of Corfu, a Corfu which is currently an anchored in health? You know very well, with regard to the national issues that we have today, the problem we are dealing with with with the Overseas Islands, Mr Secretary-General, and now you are giving me the opportunity to tell you that the Overseas islands have remained without rural doctors. The cross-cutting islands that we want to live on for national reasons, you have given up on them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are islands to which you have not even sent military doctors who have so far forgotten in this difficult winter, without the help and presence of the Greek state, the official state. Are you going to apologize for all this at some point? And in any case, these decisions on Corfu will be taken sometime, since you will be informed and discussed with the operators of Corfu?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Madam President. If you'll excuse me, I'll be done, but I'm really out of my mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u201	Please! You've consumed all year round.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u202	For a whole philosophy, supported by the Prime Minister at the specific conference I mentioned, you continue to mention it, but by a difference: there are no longer sixteen sanitary regions, and you are actually telling us that it is not planned to become the Ionian Islands Health Region. Answer the Corfiots. They'll all see the timeline we're doing. So tell them why you do not, when we have the six - seven years of operation that has worked exemplaryly. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, too. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Biagi, this building will not solve the health services problem. You said so, too, and we have said that we will also enable local government to participate at the primary level of health services, and the aim is to meet the needs of the whole population in every corner of the country. I told you that, in fact, there was the thought that the administration would identify the health regions and at the moment...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u205	It wasn't a thought. It was a statement and it was in Mr. Mitsotakis' speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u206	And at the moment there are malfunctions in certain health regions, such as the sixth, because we said it was huge. If he's eight or eighteen, I can't give you a specific number. However, the point is that we must in every way ensure decentralisation, because any healthcare region must exercise substantial powers, not just decentralise the protocol once again by Athens to decide. Health regions must be adjacent to hospitals and health structures in the region in order to meet the needs of each region, to design needs, to meet needs and to provide quality health services. Let us not stand in the number of health regions. We're not here to build new buildings, new structures that will probably malfunction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u207	The regions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u208	We're here to meet the health needs of all citizens, and that's what we're doing. We have not retreated a step forward in terms of our election commitments to provide quality health services to every Greek citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-02-07-S1-commons.u210	With the consent of the House at 12.55 p.m. the sitting on Monday, February 10, 2020 at 17.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, Parliament's scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate under No 4/3/9-12-2019 on a topical question from Members of the SYRIZA to the Minister for Civil Protection, in accordance with the agenda.
