ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 22-5-2020, PMT's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau on Friday 22 May 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Special forms of tourism and provisions on tourism development and other provisions’.]] In his letter of 25 May 2020, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs briefs the House on the following: "We hereby inform you of the debate on topical and urgent questions within the framework of parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 25 May 2020 that the following topical questions will be discussed: The Questions Nos 692-12-2020, 697/15-2020 and 715/18-5/20 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr Styliani Mendoni. The Questions Nos 694-12-05-2020, 696/15-5-2020 and 708/18-5-2020 will be answered by the Minister of Home Affairs Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. Question Nos 699/15-2020 and 714/18-5-2020 topical questions and Question No 5220/243/27-2020 according to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Geremis Thomas. The Question No 701/18-5-20 and the Question No 5228/244/27-2020, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. We therefore enter the debate of the QUESTIONS We begin with our first question under number 696/15-5-2020 of the First Circuit of the Achaia Radical Left Coalition Mr.Athanasias Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Unacceptable living conditions of the Roma West Achaias - Need for immediate intervention". Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos will answer the question. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on 31 March we had tabled a question to the two SYRIZA Members on the same subject, the situation and the crisis - mainly food - which they are experiencing at this time - especially the period of pandemic - the Roma of Achaia Prefecture and especially the West Achaia region, the Municipality of Western Achaia. Your answer came a few days ago, but the situation has not improved at all. You have had several letters from both the President of the Greek Federation of Greek Roma of ELANN PASSE, as well as the local association of the Municipality of West Achaia, the President of the Local Association of Youth and Women of St. George on the same subject, as well as several letters and letters from the Municipality of West Achaia. Minister, the problem is a great one because in West Achaia there are six hundred with seven hundred families, about three hundred in Shanghai and Pavlos Sykia - the Roma, families in these camps - who, because of the crisis, the distance and all the measures cannot exercise the small professions they practice as travellers in peoples, etc. The problem is acute. There are no direct types of living, especially for children and for babies. The kids went to school and had the school meals. You know the school's closed. For babies, however, but also for most of these Greek citizens, there are not the kinds of first need. We have made calls because somehow the state must intervene in this case. There's still no response. We had meanwhile done a call, Minister, to take a step in the EGE to make sample checks and that as of 31 March. We went the other day from the 6th R.O. in the area. However, no sampling checks were carried out in the Roma. As you can see, the issue is of the utmost importance to these same populations, but also to public health in general. So, please, with the timely question today you will tell me: What measures will you take, what will you take immediately so that we can stop this food crisis in this vulnerable group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u3	Me too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I consider the question that you have tabled on an issue that is of very great human and social interest and which needs to be addressed. I have a full picture of the situation in this town and the situation in the Roma population. I have to tell you that the Ministry of Interior is involved only in the case of the necessary information for citizens about the coronary pandemic, the emergency disinfection measures in the area, in order to ensure that people are not affected - as far as it depends on intervention by third parties - by informing them of the situation, the supply of bottled water in the camp and any other preventive measures that the municipality considers can be taken as regards the preservation of public health. With this in mind, and in the total of ninety-eight municipalities in the country, in which the Roma exist, we gave EUR 2.53 million. A certain amount was made available to the Municipality of Western Achaia on the basis of the statements made by the mayor of Mr. Spiros Mylonas for these purposes. Also, the Ministry of Interior has taken a number of measures at this time to supply wastewater to the municipalities in order to ensure cleanliness in the area. So, according to part of the responsibilities and responsibility of the Ministry of Interior as regards the Roma population for this municipality, but also overall, we have taken the steps I have explained to you. The overall responsibility - as you may know from the past - of the implementation of the national strategy on social inclusion of the Roma, the design and revision of this national strategy has been shared by the Secretariat-General for Social Solidarity and Poverty of the Ministry of Labour, with which I intend to discuss and update it for my part. I believe that you too can ask this question, but I intend to take this kind of initiative, because I understand the food problem for the population concerned and the need to take some measures to help them. This concerns the region, also the municipality, as well as the State. We all have to work together. It is simply not the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior, as is not his responsibility, nor is the EGE procedure for the measures you have mentioned. But I will agree that there is a need, there is the issue, and we need to act coordinatedly, in addition to what the Ministry of the Interior has already done. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u5	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, I thank you for your sensitivity and, indeed, I hope you will inform your colleagues in the government involved, because you understand that we have a timely question, we cannot submit it to all the co-legislators. I would like to say that because there have been too many calls made by the Municipality of West Achaia, it has indeed taken from the Ministry yours EUR 40,000. Then, in our question, we asked for it too. However, these 40,000 euros, because they have a code for which the money has been made, cannot be made available for the feeding of the Roma. The Region of Western Greece has so far not responded to these calls. We know very well that there was a special secretariat for the Roma and that it was about their integration, about their registration. You know very well, Minister, that this is a complex issue, but it is also crucial for these populations - I am talking, not only about now - integration, but also about all local societies and the harmony of coexistence. If you're suggesting that I re-submit the timeliness to the Ministry of Labour, I'd be happy to do it. But people have a direct problem and you understand that the Greek Roma Confederation is trying to coordinate all actions, all of the Roma in Greece, as are the local clubs, which were an important job. So I propose here - without any real opposition - that we help as far as we can, you as a government official to resolve the issue of the food crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They really don't have the first-ever kinds. I would not be able to reach a timely question if there were even the elementary kinds of first need. You can understand that there is a direct need for the government to deal with the matter. So make sure that the government acts immediately, especially in those areas where we have a large population and there are also land workers. The Roma themselves are working as land workers who now do not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u7	Me too, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u8	We'll agree, we don't have anything different. I think we share the same sensitivity about this particular problem. I will have direct contact with the Secretary-General of Social Solidarity and Combat Poverty, the Ministry of Labour. I do not already exclude the man from being active in this direction. And we will act jointly with both the region and the municipality, and I will also inform you about it to you and your colleagues in the county.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. The third, with number 708/18-5-2020, top-circuit question, by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis, to the Minister of Home Affairs, on the subject: "Modification of all contractors in school cleaning and recruitment of new permanent cleaning staff to provide adequate coverage for school units." and the fourth, with number 694-12-2020, top-circuit question, by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister of Interior, on the subject: "Entermination of permanent cleaning staff in schools", refers to the same subject and pursuant to Rule 131(4) of the Rules of Procedure, will, at the same time, discuss, without prejudice to the rights of speakers in terms of time. First of all, Mr Delis will speak in his question to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: 'Simplification of all contractors in school cleaning and recruitment of new permanent cleaning staff for adequate coverage of school units'. Come on, Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I think that the timeliness of the question, especially today, is self-evident, after the government's communiqués on the opening up of schools. To begin with, I would like to say that anyway, the great social value of the work of all those who work in cleanliness - there has always been at least, for us - became evident in the pandemic. One would say that it was also valuable, since cleanliness is a basic weapon and a basic defence measure against the coronary. We are, of course, talking about the heavy and unhealthy work of thousands of people in cleaning and hygiene, hospitals, means of transport, schools, every public place, but today we want to focus on the cleaners and cleaners of the schools in the country. What is true about their working relationships, Madam President? For their great majority - close to ten thousand are these people - their employment relationships are work contracts starting and ending every school year. The conventions, that is, the awkwardness of hostage. Who are the salaries of all these people who keep our children's schools clean? Listen: For a kindergarten it is 90 euros a month if it is one-stop or 120 euros a month if it is two-stop. Most schools are under 300 euros a month, Minister. At the most in these big school complexes, a cleaner or a cleaner should reach 480 euros a month, for a job we all know how heavy it is. You see, these wages come out like this because they are calculated and come out only on the basis of the school rooms that are cleaned up, not counting that these people and the rest of the schools like workshops, auxiliaries, courtyards, offices, toilets. When do all these people get paid? With a very long delay, usually every four to six months that long they have to wait, since the governments see, all without exception, they are late sending this money to the municipalities. Of course, we are not talking here about structured working rights, permits, hours, and so on, as these do not exist, they are not even provided for contractors, for the European Union, for all this beautiful, wonderful regime of flexible work. While in several cases - and this is worth saying - it is incomplete and the protection measures for workers in bleach and in carcinogenic disinfectants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] How now does the government, all governments and yours, reward all these fighters on the front line today of the pandemic? With their dismissal, as on the basis of the existing institutional framework, their contracts expire in one month, on 30 June. In the air, then, thousands of workers in school cleaning. And September, Minister, with the regular school opening, is not far away. Two months apart. Well, we say that this disgrace has to be stopped, because apart from an anti-virtual it is now dangerous for the health of schools. And the final solution must now be given. It is this, Minister, that you are being asked, that you have been told by their mobilizations, on several occasions, by the workers: permanently, all these people now have their clean-up staff. And because this, as you well know, is not enough - and as you indirectly recognized today in your announcements and in your interview - there will be other recruitments to do. So perpetuate all of these and make new recruitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Now follows the question put by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The recruitment of permanent cleaners in schools" will also be answered by the Minister of the Interior. Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes. Please just try - I'm not saying it for you, but in general - to be in your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u12	It's the problem with thousands of cleaners. Of course, as a Greek solution, Minister, we have put it to you since 25 November, where, in a question we tabled at the time, we were asking about working conditions in relation to school cleaners, because this problem is recycled and portrayed. I would also remind you, as a Greek Solution, that on 4 December there was a great deal of delay in payment and, in particular, in view of the holidays. On 2 December, I would remind you that you had adopted a joint ministerial decision to allow the working hours to be paid. It is a matter that we have tabled as a topical question since 12 May, and we have been waiting for you in cartoons. We also met in Komotini. You promised me to see it, to talk about it today. I listened carefully to your statements this morning. It also counts, of course, for the special scientific team to deal with public health crises through infectious agents, but this does not satisfy these women, the Greek working cleaners, who can work for ten and fifteen years. He feels an insecurity. She's this woman who runs all day with a hydrochloric acid or a bleach to make the disinfection, not only now, but also in the past. Because from November to December we were all talking about H1N1. The coroner's here to stay. We'll have the second wave in September. At least that's what the praisers and scientists say. And today you said: 'Removal of up to four months, depending on the funds that local government will give'. That's not panacea, Minister, it's fascist. They're contracted working conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] If a cleaner today - which my colleague said - starts with 90 euros and reaches a maximum of 300 or 400 euros and puts it in school to be morning - this afternoon, it is unfortunately forced by the Greek society to do a second job, it cannot survive. You're asking for an increase in the seats. There are precaution rooms that belong to the Lifelong Learning Centre of the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation or myschool and are not paid for. There are common spaces. There are the offices, the locker room. There are the toilets, the public. There are the offices of teachers and teachers. They're not getting paid. If a cleaner gets sick - listen to the laughter - even cancer patients, he can't get permission. This cleaner doesn't have a medical license. Another woman has to be in her position and, indeed, pay her out of her pocket. On Mr Haritsis and on SYRIZA, shortly before the elections, he entered the list of heavy and unhealthy people. A small 10% increase was given. It does not solve the problem, however, because it has been absorbed by heavy and unhealthy. There is still the other problem for the personalised equipment these women need and it is not provided by the municipalities. And the other comedian, Minister? If she doesn't do her job properly or on the contrary has a problem with a school counsellor, teacher, teacher, teacher, cleaner while working at the Ministry of Education, she can't answer because she belongs to the municipalities. You, too, are responsible as Minister of the Interior. You realise that he is going from Anna to Kaiafa. There must be too many obstacles for this woman to be heard! Give me a solution now. Scientists what do they say? The coronary because of the cavity shell, this ransom said by doctors who have genetic material, nucleic acid, - that is what bibliography shows and we must learn from the pandemics of the past - will come in a second wave. So will the second wave in September and October, which will have to follow the distances and all the measures planned, and we will no longer have permanent cleaners that deserve it? Their fracture is not justified, Minister. We have to give a solution. They cover fixed and fixed needs. For those who have retired in the past, this position has not been met and their contracts have been renewed, so you realize that they are feeling stress, insecurity and injustice as citizens, as Greek second-class workers. You need to solve it. It's not just your government, it's the previous ones. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Give a solution to the Greek cleaning lady, who really can't handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Let me just remind you that the time of the question is two minutes, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for the question. I would like to thank you for discussing an issue which is undoubtedly of social interest and to which we all have to show our social sensitivity, because we are talking about the cleanliness conditions in our schools, the children of all Greeks, which must be guaranteed, but we are also talking about the working conditions of people - men and women - who work in the schools, working conditions in which I agree that, under the conditions currently being worked by men and women, as cleaners and cleaners in schools, it is not the conditions that apply to workers in the European Union of the 21st century, in any case and in terms of the money they receive, but I would say more about the system with which these contracts are being carried out, a system that has a strong customer status, in which we must finally put an end. I would like to say that the quarantine period, the Ministry of the Interior together with the local government, took all the necessary measures to ensure the cleanliness of the social infrastructure they were working on. They took all the appropriate measures for this time that schools open, primary, high school, high school and kindergartens. The Ministry of Interior gave strong economic tools to self-government. We have provided exceptional support from the first day of quarantine for EUR 15 million and this week exceptional aid to the municipalities to compensate for the losses they obviously have due to closed companies, shops, offices, the less municipal fees they receive. It's 75m euros extraordinary support to the municipalities, so they all have the opportunity. We also legislated on the possibility of temporary and derogating from the legislation for four months, where necessary, staff, among others, for the purpose of cleanliness, not to solve the problem of next school year. I shall refer to that very specifically. I am talking here about the period of the coronary crisis. We are now going to what we have seen from September. Ten days ago, along with the colleague of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Delis, we met at the Ministry of Interior with a delegation of workers from the schools of Piraeus and today I had a meeting for some time with a coordination of thirty-five unions, from cleaners and cleaners throughout Greece. They described the problem that was known to me. We've all described it, we're looking for a solution. What I have to say about your position, Mr. Colleague of the Communist Party of Greece and about what we're thinking about doing. First of all, you know that the possibility of converting fixed-term private-law contracts and works lease contracts into an indefinite period is expressly prohibited by Article 103 of the Constitution. Therefore, a permanentization within the meaning of the conversion of those contracts into contracts cannot be carried out permanently. You know that and we all know that, and in my opinion, if we want to help these people and if we want to help resolve the problem, let us discuss it on the basis of constitutional solutions, because as the government understands, it is a duty, but I think all of us must respect the Constitution and what we are doing, to do it within this Constitution, which we have all sworn that we are serving. So the solution of simulation doesn't exist on the table. The solution to pursue a policy similar to that which we have done for the 'Help at Home' programme is not prejudicial to the workers themselves, to the current workers of the programme. If a process of this kind takes place, through the AACC, as we are doing at the moment with the three thousand recruitments - the contest launched by the AACC - the people who are currently working in cleaning programs with cleaning contracts, most likely they will not be able to be appointed. That's the reality. If, therefore, someone is interested in these people and solving the problem of cleanliness, he should seek another solution. First of all, there is the question of the following. Do we have to do that? My answer is that this is where there is a very big problem for these people. They are people - many ladies of them - who work in schools, cleanliness, fifteen and twenty years and therefore under the current working conditions, that the regime of the recession and the crisis that we, like all humanity, are facing, any other potential of them I would say that they are almost gone. So we have to give a solution to this staff. We are looking for a solution and we are discussing together with the Ministry of Education, because I clarify that the body that pays the ladies and gentlemen who work for the cleanliness of the schools is INEDIBIM, a legal person governed by public law of the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Education therefore has direct responsibility for the economic process at least. Of course, both the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State. We are therefore in discussion and consultation between the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education, Economics and specifically the General Accounting Office of the State, in order for the new season to have contracts from INEDIBIM for cleaners and cleaners, which are fixed-term contracts. Through these fixed-term contracts we can achieve full working and insurance rights for workers and workers, to eliminate the phenomena that are quite right, Mr Colleague, you have described, which unfortunately exist today when these people are ill and to have justice and equality between them, but to put an end to clientele. What I have unequivocally to say is that the workers and workers in the cleaning of schools must not feel that they are in the air, because they will not be in the air. He's not in the air! They will normally work the next period and I believe that very quickly the three co-legislative ministries will be able to announce this definitive solution. We are doing what is needed at the moment so that we can very soon announce the final solution to the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u15	We too, Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Minister, I will begin with a part of your answer that I think is wrong for workers in cleaning. You have left insinuation and implied their contribution to customer relations. And I mean the contribution of the workers, those who go and work for 90, 120, 300, make it 400 euros. But I have to tell you here, Minister, that, in a relationship of demolition of conscience, the demolitionist has the primary responsibility, not the demolitionist. It is not the same and similar responsibility. So, think who are all these people, who built this entire client state, who maintains it by other methods now? I'm going over, anyway, and I'm actually moving on. You have ruled out, as at the meeting - in this you are consistent - any thought of permanentisation. Talk about converting their contracts in a fixed period. And we tell you: Turn them into indefinite time. You have the ability to do it. There is an opinion from the European Court of Justice and there is a decision from the Council of the State of our country. In any case, you know, you cannot invoke, Minister, both you and PASOK and SYRIZA the Constitution as an obstacle to the permanent work of these people, because this Constitution did not fall out of heaven. You voted for it. Indeed, the relevant provision, Article 103 - I was not here, but we are following it and remembering it - you also voted for the PASOK and the New Democracy and the small coalition then, the ancestor of the current SYRIZA. As a coincidence, in the review we had a few months ago here, it was again a proposal from our party to remove this provision, so that you do not use it as a pretext for keeping these people hostage and rejected by both the New Democracy and by SYRIZA and PASOK. In any case, it is a matter of political will. You can do it, and you have to. In relation to all these good and conscientious words, "the tea and the sympathy" that you share, like all governments, even the great words about heroes, etc. for all these people, we think they are a very big hypocrisy, since you are continuing this unacceptable hostage regime. We are talking about people who have fifteen, seventeen, eighteen years of work and who ask for self-evident, a relative security for their work. But I come to what has been announced today and what you have said. It seems that the government also attaches that responsibility. It has a talent for this government, its own, its central, the state's responsibility to transfer it to individual responsibility, and now it is transferring that responsibility to the municipalities, and I am talking about the cleanliness of the schools. You gave them - you say - 15 and 75 million euros as a second instalment. All right, but you didn't just give that up for the cleanliness. You have given it to all needs, and obviously the needs of cleanliness, Minister, are great. You know very well, too, that at the moment staff have left school and special schools, which will open in a week and go to high school in the country, because that's not exactly where this staff was going. Why wasn't it enough? But because the needs are increased, Minister. These increased needs will be here and September. There will be no stop to these needs. We have heard the Minister of Education today say that schools will be cleaned twice, one - he says - during and one after the end of the course. They may need to be cleaned after each break, Minister, the public areas of the schools. That is why we say that more staff will be needed, so we say that more funding will be needed. In any case, there is a lot of questionable and unanswered questions about the next day about the opening up of schools, but also about this period, as we start. Of course, it is very gray of this whole landscape with some ministerial decisions and legislation that will be made - we do not know exactly how it will be - which will extend - the work responsibilities, the responsibilities of these workers, possibly extend the duration of their work. You're transferring responsibility to the municipalities to hire them for three, four months too. Where are they gonna pay them, anyway? That's all you have to answer. But we want once again, Minister, to invite you, as you are invited by thousands of workers. Employees are not calling on you to convert their contracts over a certain period of time. They ask for contracts of indefinite duration, with wages such that they can live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u18	Mr Minister, we are not satisfied with the answer because we believe that this solution is superficial and superficial. I'm afraid it'll be a silencing effort. Of course your predecessors have referred to Article 103 of the Constitution, but this is now the deficit - if you like - of the parliamentary work and of the democratic culture from the lack of a constitutional court. Both our President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos and my fellow Members of the Greek Solution have told you quite a few times that the constitutional court - to know the Greek people - is the so-called 'devil lawyer', what the papals once did, because when something is inconsistent and circumventing the social rights of the whole, there had to be the so-called constitutional court to judge whether it is legal or not. I am afraid that it will come in the autumn and we will start again at the starting point and again it will be the hands of the local authorities, and just before the holidays I will ask you to come out of a joint ministerial decision so that the entrants can be paid, or they will be able to see what is happening with the municipalities and why the municipalities are delaying these payments. They cover fixed and fixed needs. Their pay is 33 euros per month - listen, for what our mother, wife, is trying to do with EUR 200 or 300, as an unhealthy profession, which does not even have personalised kinds of protection. I would ask you, Minister, to check more fully if they are given personal protection. Nor is milk granted because the milk - you know - is entitled to an employee on the heavy and unhealthy list, the so-called'reds'. Give a solution to these women who will cover the standing, serious, constant needs due to the pandemic, where it comes from - I told you in my prototype - and the second wave and we will run - to just say it to the catapult - and we will not get to the point of view of the cleaners. We all want our space to be clean, to be orderly, to have disinfection, be it school, be it our office, or any workplace. These women will continue to satisfy the so-called customer relations, precisely because the contracts will be of a certain kind of work, and when the end date comes, they will again be begging for renewal of contracts, and these working conditions will continue to be inconsistent with a European level, when someone gets sick they cannot be absent from their work. You said you'd see it. I'm really scared, though. With the contracts of a project - of course some legal security barriers will be introduced - they will be able to be satisfied. And in any case, if you really want to leave your signature and the indelible seal, see, Mr. Minister, what you can do with the nine and a half thousands of families, with these cleaners, so that they don't keep coming out with a fascist and a bucket and a bleach again in the world because they really offer. There are many ministries involved, yours, the Ministry of Education and the municipalities. This must be resolved somewhere, because, as the people are saying, many of the poor people are talking about it late in the day, in order to resolve the problem as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u19	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for having been consistent in your time. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u20	First of all, I did not make any reproach for the workers and the workers. None at all. Please very much in this respect. There was no peak. I said the opposite. Customer relations are implemented by those who can implement them. It's obvious. In these customer relations, this government and that leadership of the Ministry of Interior want to put an end to it. If you want, this was one of the main priorities highlighted by the country's current Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, from the time that he proclaimed the leadership of the New Democracy Party and remained at the centre of the political planning position of this party under his leadership and now he is a Prime Minister. It is our choice to put an end to "clientity" wherever it has remained, wherever it exists and in any case in the area of school cleaning. It's going to end. We are doomed to this. Neither the eyes can be closed, nor is it right, nor is it fair. Dear colleague of the Greek Solution, when we say fixed-term contracts, it means that workers and workers will enjoy full insurance rights, because - I repeat, the delegation that had come to the Ministry told me today - there are workers who are ill. A lady has cancer and does not have the basic rights that every man and every worker deserves. Yeah, that's the truth today. That's what we're going to change, we're going to fix it. We all agree that this must be changed and it must be corrected. From there on, the repetition of requests for permanentization I believe that it has no meaning, because you know that it cannot be implemented. However, the workers today at the meeting I realized that they accept as a positive solution for their own interests the solution of fixed-term contracts. They were clear in their location.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u21	Depends on who you meet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u22	The coordination of the thirty-five unions. You saw, Mr. Delis, that I did not refuse to come in contact with the union you came with. I am not making any distinction, nor am I interested in what the ladies and gentlemen of the cleansing area will vote on the parliamentary elections, nor what they voted on in the previous ones. It is a matter of fundamental logic and prevalence of the laws of the rule of law to deal with the problem. Because you have addressed me personally, I must tell you that I have learned in my life to always describe what I believe, who I am sad at. What can we do? That's right. Everyone must have the responsibility of acts and their reasons. I'm not pretending. This government is interested in workers. Let her have the right to be equally interested in everyone else. It is a government that can prove that it is more interested because it can produce results. We'll solve the problem. There is a very good mood for the government, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance as a whole. It is simply because the solution we are saying has an obvious greater financial cost than what we have been paying for the previous period, we will look at how we will do it to cover this cost, so that people in this area do not feel that they are in the air or that they are not wrong. So we are determined to give a fair and realistic solution to this problem, which I believe in the next few days the three ministries involved in the case will find and announce it. Finally, I have to tell you that if you too want to be politically just, you should find that what you accused me of - the New Democracy Government - we are not doing so. We don't throw a ball at anyone. SYRIZA's law provides that for next year cleanliness workers should be paid by the municipalities, while until now they are paid by INEDIBIM. The ball was transferred to SYRIZA. Based on your perception, I say it, because you described it that way. We will need to legislate to maintain the funding for INEDIBIM and to make the relevant contracts with cleanliness workers in this regard. These are the justice of your political speech. Otherwise, Madam President, what I have said is entirely true. The message is clear. We are fully interested in the workers in the field of school cleaning. We'll support them. They must not feel in the air, but we want to put a definitive end to the 'clientity' of industrial relations. We want to provide a solution that is fair, realistic, within the framework of the constitution and the laws of the country, and that is what we will do with the three co-legislative ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, too, Minister. The second question will be debated under number 692-12-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the suspension of all cultural activities". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Lina Mendoni. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u24	Minister, the pandemic that humanity experiences and the necessary lockdown has caused shock in most sectors of the economy and of course in the field of culture. About a hundred thousand workers are employed in this sector in sixty thousand businesses. They've already been suspended two months. But even so the people of culture in these unprecedented conditions supported society with their arts via the Internet. Today all of us, the state and above all, of course, the government must stand alongside them and support their own relaunch with the greatest possible safety for public health. Madam Minister, the situation has changed since the beginning of May. In fact, it was early May that I tabled the question. Today the archaeological sites have been opened. The timetable for lifting restrictive measures in the sector has been notified. On June 1, cinemas open, on June 15, museums and mid-July, we expect the relaunching of live events, but only in open spaces. However, Minister, some questions remain, creating a state of insecurity for people of culture. First, you announced the creation of a register of artists and creators. It's a proposal that we had made in the Change Movement. This is where we agree. But you need to clarify the criteria for registration, because there is currently confusion in the art world. Secondly, you announced EUR 2.5 million for the ASEAN. And I ask: what criteria will be given and when? Thirdly, with regard to the eighteen-month vouchers for the productions which have been cancelled and which have not been returned, you said that there will be no provision. But some questions come in. What about those who have returned the ticket money, but have they not received such support? Fourthly, the Ministry of Culture will eventually buy tickets to support performances. We in the Change Movement have proposed making a fund for the live events that will be distributed to the citizens through the OAED. Fifth, will compensation be granted to businesses of all forms, such as in theaters closed by a government order? Sixth, how will you manage the rents in the cultural field, in other words for theatres, cinemas, cultural sites? Here is the need to freeze 40% and 60% by the end of the year for rents. To prevent, of course, the change in the use of these theatres and cinema buildings. We shouldn't have violent tenants' exits. Seventh and last is something about the repayable advance, request by the AMDs recognised by the Ministry of Culture’s register of cultural institutions. It is necessary to disconnect the commitment to the employees, because they operate mainly with seasonal employees. I have tabled a question here and I am waiting for your reply. Finally, health protocols for all are of major importance. You've announced someone. Does it require clarification, however, such as how theatres and cinemas will work with 40% completeness when the planes are 100% complete? It's oxymoral and unfair. I'm waiting for your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u25	Me too, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u26	Madam President, thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you for your question. I am given the opportunity to reiterate once again what this government and the Ministry of Culture has done with the appropriate ministries for people and workers in culture and arts. First of all, that government since the beginning of the pandemic has treated all undertakings in the same sensitivity, in the same way, as all employees. The culture and its employees have never been an exception to this government. You know very well that already from the first measures taken in March, more than forty-five thousand employees, self-employed and cultural enterprises have received the special allowance. This list is constantly expanded. With the latest measures we have taken in consultation with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Finance, workers of culture who have been employed in one or more of the companies and employers and have an insurance capacity in place. What does that mean? The measure takes over employees with an annual gross earnings of artistic or other related activities for 2019 or for the last 12 months of an amount of EUR 2,022,5 corresponding to the imputable wage of the twelfth class as defined in the amount of EUR 40,45. That means the perimeter for those who get the special allowance has been opened too much. The theme of the travellers and the travellers of the Concert Hall of Music was finally solved today by the announcement made by the administration of the Megaron. We said that there are EUR 2.5 million available for those who are registered in the register of cultural actors. In the next few days, there will be a special notice setting out a minimum criteria to take advantage of those who really work and work for culture, not AMKE - seals. Voucher, the so-called coupon, will come very soon with the first draft law of the Ministry of Culture in the Parliament and will have eighteen months' power, i.e. the possibility of monitoring cultural events in the future for those who had booked tickets for productions that were cancelled. In the ninth month, if these people are not satisfied, they should pay back, which is what the entrepreneurs concerned have agreed with anyway. As you said, since June 1st, summer movies will work. The constant request, which was to reduce VAT to 6%, has already been satisfied and announced last week by the Prime Minister himself. The register is indeed a major structural reform, which will enable us to finally map the unpapered landscape of all sectors and the diversity of industrial relations in culture. The Ministry of Labour chose for the register to follow the International Standard STEP -92. It seems that there have been arrhythmias, which are already corrected in consultation with the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, which tends and accentuates our own remarks. So this is something that will be corrected and on the basis of the register we will now be able to create political and financial tools that are very targeted. The structural reforms are being speeded up. I have already had the opportunity to say that pandemic and coronary brought to foam major problems of decades, pathogens of decades. A very characteristic example is rehearsals and insecure artists during the rehearsal period. Obviously rehearsals must be paid, obviously artists must be insured. Such predictions are already being discussed in order to clarify the landscape and to create, as far as possible, a safety net for workers in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u27	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u28	Minister, the implementation of an extraordinary action plan in the field of culture is a difficult project, and we all know that. A lot of them are hypotheses, of course. Other theatre needs, other cinema needs, other needs in archaeological sites, others in museums, others in music or dance areas. However, others are the needs of large productions and others in small ones. But everything has a common denominator, the audience. This relationship with the public is due to the Ministry to protect it with specialized health protocols, because only in this way can citizens feel security and be able to revert to their favorite habits. Proposal of the Movement of Change - PASOK is to design the Ministry of Culture an advertising campaign for all arts and cultures, with a view to overthrowing the psychology of fear. Our other proposals are to buy performances and concerts, which will be broadcast either by television or live streaming and, of course, to subsidise the ticket - as other colleagues have proposed from other parties - for performances that will be made live in the summer and objectively with a limited number of positions. State aid to all PPCIs, i.e. new productions, as well as the creation of a special cultural aid fund to support artists and neighbouring sectors. We all call on you, Minister, to do so and you can do so, because society and the citizens will really be relieved. Culture, Minister, needs our brave support. It would be desirable for tourism to be treated as a single product in our country, at this critical juncture. So we will have a multi-level and multilateral support plan for each sub-sector, more comprehensive and more fair. I would like to stress once again that it is not possible for aeroplanes to have no restrictions and 100% completeness, while in theatres to have 40% and also to place closed rooms for live running. There are some other issues that I did not mention in my prototype and I would ask you to reply here. A first issue is the workers who remain after 15 July in a job suspension. Will they continue to receive the special allowance? It is a question of many, and I would like your answer. Secondly, what about the amount planned for the Athens Festival for the performances that were approved in Piraeus? Let me remind you that there it was planned to work a large number of professionals. Is there going to be an alternative scenario? Maybe he'll be cancelled for September? I would like your answer. Finally, will the municipalities participating in the support be financed so that they can finance such productions? Madam Minister, we are waiting for your answers and I am not only waiting for them, but all those who are listening to us today are waiting for them. Indeed, the support for culture must be a bet on all of us, because everything you have planned, what I have said and what will be implemented this summer is about many people. In fact, I would say that it can also be a rehearsal for the people of culture and for winter. Artists know how to walk with the data of the nature of their profession. However, they do not know how to go free and two months now I would say that they live like escapees. What do we have to do? To free them and lead them to aristocratic cleansing, so that civilization does not fall into exaltation and nonexistence. I believe that for all of us culture is of the utmost importance and a matter of national identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u29	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u30	Mr. MEP, perhaps today you have watched or been informed about the new institution announced by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, "Greece all, a culture". You are quite right that what needs to be done is to restore to the normality of the relationship between citizens, viewers, people who consume culture themselves with cultural events. This new institution is doing exactly that. Throughout the whole of Greece, there are two hundred fifty-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-one-man-man-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-nay-nay-nay-nay-na-na-na-na-nay-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-nayna-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na-na- That's exactly what's going on like some kind of advertising, as you said, if you want, to regain public confidence. Free of charge, free of charge, the sponsored organizations of the Ministry will receive additional funding and we have secured an amount of 2 million and all the spectator will do, the one who wants to attend the events, will be to pay, pay the price of entry to the archaeological site, precisely because we agree on what you said. DECLARATION: As you may know, the PPC has already received their regular grant in a much lesser period of time, they have already received an additional grant each of EUR 20 000, precisely so that they can offer their creative work in the region. With PPCTHI, with the artistic directors of PPCTHI, we said on Friday that we will be able to support this support that we provide to them, in order to create again a network of performances and initiatives and events of PPCITH in public municipal areas and archaeological sites. What we are particularly interested in, Mr Papoutsis, and I think you agree here, too, is the safety of the public and the safety of the artists. The totality of 40% was not arbitrarily determined by the Ministry of Culture. It was the suggestion made by the Special Committee of the Ministry of Health. We must respect her. This does not mean - and we have said so at the very first moment - that, depending on the evolution of the epidemiological curve and the epidemiological data, this cannot be revised and increased. We are in constant discussion and cooperation with doctors, with specialists, to see from 15 July onwards, which will certainly be able to function and become alive for the real completeness of the premises. Ensure that this government, as it has been since March when the pandemic appeared, is for those who face work problems, for all branches, that there is constant support, care and care. Obviously, this will not be an exception for workers in culture. Finally, with regard to the grants of supervised bodies, including the Athens and Epidaurus Festival, it will not be reduced at all by what was planned for 2020. In particular, as far as the Athens Festival is concerned, the artistic director will announce next week his planning with dates, as it was shaped after a series of changes and amendments which were absolutely necessary because of the pandemic, with shapes abroad, with very precise productions. Well, it's gonna be a festival. In accordance with the decision of the Festival's board of directors, with which we as Ministry have agreed, the performances carried forward in 2021 will receive a 30% advance in order to meet the costs incurred. Mr Papoutsis, we are already discussing with the representatives of the premises and associations, and we need to see what measures we need to take if the data on a second wave of pandemic, which I despise, really prove to be true. In any case, the Ministry of Culture and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis are prepared to support and support the work, to the extent necessary, on all cultural organizations and bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u31	Me too, Minister. We move on to the first with number 697/15-2020 in the second cycle of the Corfu MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Short constructions within the moat of the Old Fortress Corfu". The present question will be answered by the Minister for Culture itself, Mrs Mendoni. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Minister, who, even lately, for postponing the debate when the quarantine started, was kind enough to put her on the table today. I say this because it is imminent, Minister, that we will shortly be receiving a delegation - a committee visit from UNESCO to check whether Corfu applies the terms and agreements. We must all know - and those who are listening to us - that the city of Corfu is a protected city, a protected monument from UNESCO. I am therefore focusing on my question - although there is too much to do with our commitments as a city to UNESCO - to the Old Fortress of Corfu, which is separated from the city of Corfu by a moat. It was built during the seventy years needed to build the Old Fortress of Corfu. It's a mourning hydrate that joins the bay of Corfu with the bay of Garitsa. For the record, there was one of the greatest crimes against civilians during the first siege of Corfu in 1537 by Suleiman the Great and thousands of people have died. Indeed, this was characterized as the maximum crime against civilians throughout the medieval period. In this sense, I would like to say that this moat has a historical burden, given that it has to do with the great historical event of the first siege of Corfu, as I said before. There, then, decades are a vast ruin, an immense arbitraryness from one end to the other end of the moat, where a multitude of leaps have been built by fishermen of amateurs first and also by other arbitrary residents of Corfu. These construction actions have created problems in the wall of Antikrimnos, as we call it. You will also see in the photos - which I will testify for the Minutes - that there are sections, ruptures of the wall. What do we want with the question? You can answer us, Minister, since you visited Corfu and we committed ourselves to this in October 2019, what you are thinking to do so that this mess, this shame that exists there, disappears. I'm opening a parentheses. For an external part of an air condition inside the city you cannot imagine what a man, criminal, administrative, etc. can go through. That is why the mess that is before the eyes of hundreds of thousands of people has not sweated the ears of the people responsible over time. I would therefore ask you to answer this question and tell me what you are thinking, when you have committed yourself and before the authorities of Corfu that you will have taken some steps in the year to launch at least a comprehensive plan for the management of the two fortresses within the logic of their integration into the social and economic development. In my speech perhaps I have the opportunity to tell you other things about the whole problem. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u33	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis. I am very pleased that you recognize that it is a problem of decades of arbitraryness in the moat. I am very pleased that you have been resorting to our own government to find a solution which your own government has not given for four and a half years. The question of the overall emergence of the Old Fortress of Corfu is the direct priorities of the Ministry of Culture. Unfortunately, from 2015 to 2019 there was no real provision for the two emblematic monuments, the Old Fortress and the New Fortress of Corfu, nor of course for the city, despite the fact that, as you have said, our obligations are to be absolutely consistent with what the management plan provides, since UNESCO carries out its regular checks. As you said, on 26 October, when I visited Corfu, I instructed the services of the Ministry of Culture that an overall management plan should be drawn up for the Paleo and the New Fortress, in cooperation with the relevant bodies, i.e. the Municipality of Corfu and the Ionian Region. The drafting framework of the management plan is based obviously on the existing legislation, based on the archaeological law, and in particular on the decision to integrate the city of Corfu and its fortress facilities in the monuments of UNESCO. As part of the drafting of the management plan, we will also address the issue of the use of the trench area Contra Foss - where the buildings you mentioned are located - these buildings belonging to the Association of amateur Fishermen Corfu and occupy the entire length of the trench of the trench. What is clear is that the buildings have been there since the 1960s at least - so this is another pathogenous decades, which comes to be solved in 2020 - and for which the Ministry of Culture has never been approved. So it's obviously illegal. The effort of the Archaeological Association of Amateur fishermen's buildings has been started since 2005, because this monument is indeed extremely important both from an archaeological and historical point of view. The relevant departments of the Ministry complete the specifications by the end of this month in order to complete this management plan, which I said from October that it will start at this time, with the aim of effectively and properly protecting these two monuments of fortification architecture, the Old and the New Fort. They will then be followed, through the approvals and opinions of the Central Archaeological Board and, where appropriate, the Central Council of New Monuments, by all the specifications to prepare the specific management plan. The Ministry cooperates with all the operators and seeks a solution, so that these fishermen can go somewhere else. They can be transported. The sure thing is, they have to get out of there. So we fully agree with what you say that these illegal structures must be removed along with some other ones. But most of them belong there. This will be done within the specific management plan, which I mentioned earlier. However, Mr Papoutsis, we have also spoken in private - you are well aware of the difficulties and societal issues that arise. Behind the fifty, sixty years that the kidnappings are there, a series of complex relationships and clienteles are hidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u36	Madam Minister, you have actually identified the problem, because I, too, hesitated as a parliamentarian of Corfu, and perhaps I am the first to raise this issue, since I have been in conflict with some interesting interests. We are talking about a very large number of complaints, most of which are broken down, are ruins. At the same time, however, I also saw economic exploitation of some of the complaints. However, we must stress that there are a number of amateur fishermen who have been dating for many years. And I will agree with you that, since it is within your policy to throw down, throw away these felonies, the gazes, there must be the prospect of building another place, so that amateur fishermen can settle there. Take note: I would like the whole thing, Minister, to put it into a more general policy, a more general planning policy. The two large fortresses, which are indicative of the character of the whole city, should be incorporated with a specific plan within the social and economic fabric, as I mentioned at the beginning of my position. You realise that these two fortresses identify the history of Corfu and are essentially abandoned, away from the social and economic become decades now. With regard to the disasters suffered by the walls, I will tell you: attributes, the wall of Antikremnos supports a playground, where the statue of the founder of the Ionian Academy, Philhellene Gilford, is ready to fall. The hydrated moat, the liquid point, i.e., which unites the two bays, has been effectively destroyed. I have brought you a set of photos to see exactly what is going on, because I think it is very great - I would say maximum - to protect the Old Fortress. It is these fortifications that have remained, essentially, since the agreement on the association of the Istanbul with Greece, when within the terms of the agreement it was to break down the walls. I say it because a few days ago we celebrated the union of Istanbul with Greece. So I am trying - in very simple terms - with this question to activate your thinking, your policy, and to respect your commitments to the Corfu meeting on 25-26 October, with the main concern of the first, what is at issue today. In other words, we should not wait for a management plan to be drawn up, and so on. Suffice the issue of administrative abortion protocols, since they are in a public place, so that they can leave there, with the simultaneous construction of another place. In any case, nothing will happen to fishermen for some time until other infrastructures are built to settle there. Have you realised that immediately, within one day, all of this can be removed in a length of about a hundred and fifty meters? This image must be removed. This summer, it must be over, with the particular reminder that fishermen - who see me, perhaps, and with a strange eye to do this - must be protected and left where you, in a particular area, have great size so that everyone who is -five, sixty - can settle there. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u37	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u38	Mr Colleagues, I think we fully agree on the importance of Corfu's two monumental fortifications. It's a badge for the island. Apart from that, however, they have a very great historical and archaeological interest, as I said. Of course, you, too, said about interests, about various relationships that exist. I would be delighted if things were so simple to say that in the next two months we can remove them, that they will leave. That's the right thing to do. That's what has to be done. I agree. I just ask you this: if it was so easy, four SYRIZA summers why did they not leave so that the space could be released? There's probably a number of issues. Since the '60s he's been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u39	So don't just say SYRIZA. Let's say we're all responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u40	Obviously. But since there is all this interest and it was so easy, four SYRIZA summers why didn't they leave? They didn't leave, though. The priority of the Ministry of Culture - and you know it very well - for Corfu is the two fortress bands. A management plan is needed, which, as I have said, is at a stage of drawing up their specifications. The special urban study, which will upgrade the Old City and these fortress complexes, is being prepared by the municipality. The Ministry of Culture collaborates with the municipality to prepare this study. It is also necessary to amend the Memorandum of Cooperation for Management of the Old City. If these things happen -- and they're all three in progress -- the image of the guards will change. I fully agree that the complaints should leave as soon as possible, as I fully agree that the fortresses should join the city's social and economic life. Indeed, a lot has been done. It's a lot of money, which has been given through the previous financial periods, starting from the Second Framework, the Third Framework, the two ESDP, for the Fortress at the level of wall protection. But many things still need to be done. You know we're working in this direction. You're right, in any case, that a class should be entered. The order that has to come in must find the allies of Corfu - which I believe has them - both the region and the municipality and civil society and everyone. Corfu is one of Greece's comparative advantages in terms of history in terms of culture. We must therefore all show proper sensitivity. But everyone! Be sure that the Ministry of Culture is trying to put an end to all these arbitrary practices. Perhaps the problem is not the fishermen. There is simply no need to create a social tension by removing fishermen. We need to find another place to go. That's not the problem. The difficulty is to accept the more general plan to remove all these illegal structures. This to some extent has started to happen - and you know - with the work currently being done by the responsible Antiquities Department in the moats, integrated and funded by INTERREG "Greece - Albania 2014-2020". Already illegals have begun to move away. There's gonna be a turn to remove these too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u41	I too, Minister. The fourth question under number 715/18-5-2020 will now be discussed in the context of the second question by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Christophoros Vernardakis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Ministry of disciplinary action against officials from the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture (THEYP) following the disclosure of criminal vocabulary in the Ministry of Culture and Sports. Total amount to be granted by the Solidarity Fund and the clearer from 7 July to date.’; The current question by Mr Vernardakis will also be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. Here, Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, seven months ago, on 8-10-2019, according to the written answer to a parliamentary question from the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor of Corruption Crimes notified the Ministry of Culture the file of the case for five felony offences concerning the well-known Solidarity Fund and some officials of the Ministry of Culture. So the question starts here: First of all, have you considered this reference from the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor of Corruption? And I say this, not ironically, but because it is very likely that the administrative bureaucracy will want and you still will not keep you fully informed. So one question is: Is it aware that seven months now this file has come to the Ministry of Culture? Secondly, if you are aware of this, you must know that on the basis of the case-law and opinions of the Legal Board of State you are obliged within twenty days to exercise the disciplinary powers conferred on you by the law. And that is your responsibility, and completely binding, or to exercise disciplinary authority, i.e. ESAs and anything else, or of course not to exercise. But you have to explain that. So, have you exercised this obligation of your own policy, administrative and public service? If you've exercised it, exactly when did you exercise it? Because so far, nothing has been said. We have no date, we have no indication of this whole story. If you have done so, in writing, as you should, what exactly does this written comment of yours say on the views of this dossier? The last question - because we will answer them later - is this: If you follow another policy, in relation to the Solidarity Fund and put it into operation, we would like you to tell us what is the exact and total amount from July 2019 until today with which it has been subsidised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. On 8 October, under the document No 3697 by the Office of Prosecutor for Corruption Crimes, the Ministry of Culture was notified to the Ministry of Culture that the conduct of criminal proceedings against seventeen officials in their capacity as the fifteen members of the Board of Directors of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture, one in the capacity of the Director of the Fund and the latter in the capacity of the staff member of the Fund. On 23 October 2019, with my letter, I asked the appropriate interrogator to know and to obtain copies of the file, in order to carry out my disciplinary duties in order to identify precisely the place and time of the facts of the criminals persecuted for each of the seventeen officials and to relate to the corresponding disciplinary misconduct. On November 1, 2019, the Special Review Department of L.4002/2011 provided us with only - and I stress it - copies of the prosecution of the draft indictment and of the finding of the Dispute Prosecutor, because, as we have heard, the case is still at the stage of the main interrogation and therefore we could not have access to the entire file. In accordance with the fourth subparagraph of Article 114(6) of the Staff Code, it is laid down that, without prejudice to the judgments in which the exercise of disciplinary proceedings is compulsory, the competent disciplinary bodies are required within twenty days - you have said so - after they have been informed to give a reasoned decision on the exercise or non-disciplinary action against the staff member. Pursuant to that provision, a ministerial decision was adopted on 5 November 2019 to suspend disciplinary proceedings until the end of the main interrogation. This does not mean, not that disciplinary action will not be taken, but that it will be exercised if the referral procedure is issued after the main interrogation is completed. The case lies in the ongoing criminal proceedings aimed at clarifying the conditions for the completion of the acts adopted. The competent judicial bodies have not completed, in the course of their procedural powers, the actions taken by law to investigate the conditions for the completion of the investigations carried out. It is necessary to fully personalise the underlying and objective elements of the operations carried out in order to establish the degree of participation of each person in the operations carried out. The lack of disciplinary action at this stage is necessary in order to ensure the proper functioning of the services, since some of the criminally persecuted are active officials, but also heads of services of the Ministry. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. In the draft indictment under which criminal proceedings have been instituted to those officials, the fact that they have legally established the objective and subjective status of the offences for which they are accused is not fully and clearly stated in the draft indictment. In particular, there has been criminal prosecution on 15 members of the Governing Board only on account of their status as members of the Management Board, without having to investigate individual liability and degree of participation in the operations carried out separately. In addition, the draft indictment does not indicate at any point the exact time and manner in which the indictees were based and with which more specific action each one has taken and with which particular evidence he has drawn up what he does accept. The disciplinary judge, the disciplinary officer, is obliged by law to rely only on proven and true facts and to express his judgment by means of a specific reasoned decision. In the present case, it is not possible at this stage to give a judgment safely on the exercise of disciplinary powers by conferring specific disciplinary action on each of the defendants. On 5 July 2019, two days before the elections, formerly Minister of Culture, Ms.Mursini Zorba signed a ministerial decision, which I tabled on the Minutes, according to which she supported the Fund with EUR 975,550. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On 8 August 2019, we implemented the above decision of your government and a grant decision of the Fund was adopted. The only amount given is therefore the amount signed by Mrs Zorba to cover operating needs of the nursery station, camping costs for the Ministry's beneficiaries and the payroll and operating needs of his office. I would point out that the fund's grant with the above amount had been decided by the prior political leadership of the Ministry of Government SYRIZA. We carried out your decision, which found the grant to be necessary in order to achieve the above objectives of the fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u46	Madam Secretary, I'll start with the last one. Obviously, here, there is a political perspective. This ministerial decision you are saying really existed. First of all, these costs were limited because on 31 December 2019 the Fund ceased to exist. The children's station employees were transferred to the Ministry's Organization and the Solidarity Fund remained a shell in the reality that it did not have an activity. He had some old debts to cover. He had the payroll costs that should be covered by the end of 2019 and some operating costs, which were completely delimited. Here, we have arrived in May 2020 and you have chosen a policy, the fund is in the new state of liquidation in operation. Then what did you do? What exactly do you do from 1 January 2020? What do you grant it, given that you continue to operate here? And, obviously, we also have the famous history of financing 100,000 euros from the Labour Federation conference, and indeed, under the provocative pretext that together with the trade union conference they also held a conference on climate change. I would remind you that this case of the illegal financing of a trade union was the beginning with which the General Accounting Office of the State began to unfold the whole famous story of the Solidarity Fund. Ms Zorba and the previous political leadership had committed a sum by 31 December 2019 for this work. From there on, what exactly is it about the expenditure you grant to the Solidarity Fund and why? As far as the substance of the case is concerned, and the documents, now, you are confronting them. You're saying the file sent to you by the Department of Justice doesn't have any individualized charges per employee. So you're flying right now, a ball at the Ministry of Justice. I'm not in a position to know that. Apparently, he's going to ask the Justice Department. And we're going to ask for all this file now with a request for documents to finally see who's doing his job and who's not doing it. But I am telling you, and I remind you of something we had discussed in the first question I had asked you about copyright: you are politically hiding behind decisions, cases and litigation of courts. Don't do that. You must have a policy. What is the Ministry's policy on the clearance of this great scandal in the Ministry of Culture? You remember that when I told you to proceed with the authorisation, the first question we had here at the beginning of your term of office, you told me that you were also awaiting the decision of the Council of State in relation to the unconstitutional applications that were in place for the Special Management Agency and so on. We now have the decision of the Council of State. You politically hiding behind this loose end have lost eight months, a major issue has arisen and I do not know if you have yet made the ministerial decision - I would be happy to confirm it - which transfers the assets of the special agency organised in transition to the NCA. So you're hiding behind pleadings and justice. What's your policy? Here you have a major scandal. You've been prosecuted. Will you exercise the powers you must or will you not exercise them? Will you stop going through the impounded coverage of a great political trade unionist interacting within the Ministry? And, in any case, do you not think that for every 100 grand that you give the mutual funds illegally deprive you of resources from this whole group of workers in culture, for which at the beginning of the previous questions so much you say you are being cut? And you obviously are. I'm not questioning that. But resources are not unlimited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u47	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Bernardakis, you have in a strange way raised two different issues. I have no problem answering both of you if you give me two more minutes, Madam President. First of all, I don't belong to those who get used to hiding. Each of us has his story in this place, and at least I'm used to hiding, you can't document it anywhere. On the contrary, you remain in fragmentary form arguments. When we talked about the SAR several months ago, Mr Bernardakis, one of the points in my reply was the pending legality that existed in the Council of State, which, as you know, ended. It was one of the issues that we raised in that question. On that question the major issue was that the law, your law, in 2017, required a sustainability report, which was presented - does not matter why - from the SAR with a very long delay. It was produced on February 3rd and the SAR was licensed on February 6th, three days later. So don't try another type of argument to get involved. And not just that. From there on, there was the necessary cooperation with the creators, with whom we worked together on many things, and already, Mr Bernardakis, to inform you, the joint ministerial decision has been adopted, which passes the activities of the EEAS to the EMS and starts a new era for creators and copyright. Now we're going to the fund issues, which is your question. I repeat that the Solidarity Fund was not financed by any other amount than that provided for by Mrs Zorba's decision. A lot of what you say could have been done if you had made sure that the staff of the fund could be transferred to the Ministry, so that the day-to-day station for which the money was given can be differently operated. Because none of this has happened, because the regulations you have made for the staff, Mr Bernardakis, as demonstrated by the AACC and not just, are wasteful, this staff remain in the fund. You're just trying to involve the current government and me in a political scandal made by you. You know and you do this very well. We chose to clear up the fund. We did not simply choose to send papers and files to justice. The fund, therefore, has already been put into liquidation since our own legislative initiative under Law 4639 and the adoption of the relevant administrative acts together with the Ministry of Finance. With the liquidation, which is ongoing, the assets and liabilities will be valued, all the financial outstandings of the fund will be closed with the aim of realising it. Contrary to your practice, which was talking about corruption in the fund and depleting its actions in reporting to the prosecutors, we are resolved decisively and definitively all the problems of the Solidarity Fund. At this point, I would remind you that effective administration is the one that solves issues in bodies and agencies and not the one that only deals with judicial authorities in order to prosecute people who are not good. It goes on to say that on what matters justice had already been called - I have said so many times - all that you have sent to justice, these are continuing to do so. The Ministry of Culture and Sport does not intend to hide anything. It shall refer any information relating to the body being resolved automatically to the competent authorities, to the courts and to the public prosecutors. Obviously, disciplinary proceedings will be exercised once they have to be exercised without any exception and without any favor. However, I do not intend - and I want this to be clear - to carry out fireworks - references to justice nor to disciplinary duties. This will be the case within which laws dictate and not political ideologies.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Minister. We continue with our fifth question under No. 701/18-5-2020 of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To abolish the provisions of Article 255 of Law No.46852020 for the priesthood before causing irreparable damage to the Greek nature" In the timely question, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Dimitris Economou. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, I would honestly expect Mr. Hadjidakis to be here, because this is a matter that he personally handled, brought it in person, personally defended it in the environmentally sound bill. But we see that Mr. Hadjidakis is hiding, as was hidden from the environmental bill along with Mrs. Mendoni, who just left the Chamber. What we have seen is that, in a bill with the environmentally sound bill, Mr Hatzidakis was suddenly found to present a late amendment which was not discussed and dealt with in consultation, which provides - if possible! - besides, hunting with hawks, catching wild hawks, buying wild hawks and using them on hunting. This is in the mind of every man who is at this moment clearly unreasonable, dangerous and who is not serving the public interest at all. We have complaints and we also have the man who promotes the priesthood in Greece to write that he receives dozens of calls from those who steal protected predators from nature and so on. We have in the hunting forums historians about how they caught wild hawks from the Greek nature. You're starting a game too dangerous. In fact, all you can do to save what is left of the Ministry's dignity after the environmental bill is to withdraw at least these dangerous provisions at the moment, so that we don't see hawks stolen from the Greek nature, not to see other kinds of raisins escaping and having foreign species in the Greek nature with all the consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Arseni, I did not listen very well, but I do not think you mentioned two points which still exist in the question, unless I did not hear them. The first is that with the history of the hierarchy the hawk is automatically classified into the dangerous species and, secondly, you have a section of an announcement by the Ornithological Society that had taken place during the environmental bill discussion that said that the bill is based on a misunderstanding, the inability to differentiate the human being from the natural environment. I don't know if that's what you didn't mention because you don't share it anymore. But if you share them, I will comment on them. And I suppose you share them, so I will comment on them unless you say no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u53	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u54	You share them. Okay, it's not a matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, with a 'yes' or a 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u56	One "yes", okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u57	I put you in my speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u58	Mr Papoutsis, with a 'yes' or a 'no' to what the Minister asked you. You do not have the floor at the moment, a 'yes' or a 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u59	Anyway, okay, don't make a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u60	I share them, but the Secretary-General does this on several occasions, rather than returning to the debate, goes to points of the written question. Will you answer the substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u62	I'm going to come by and actually, I'm gonna answer everything, don't worry. I'm just asking if you share that. The fact that it is automatically a dangerous species is a little excessive. Too many animals that man uses with alpha or beta - let's say hunting dogs are not a risk - to be good or bad. There's no such automation. As for this assumption that we have an inability to distinguish the human being from the natural environment that has different needs - this was said on the occasion of the debate on the NATURA areas - this is a childish concept. The natural environment of the country is not 30% of NATURA and anthropogenic is not the remaining 70%. NATURA also has natural areas and anthropogenic areas and the remaining 70% fortunately also has natural areas. I answer that because you mentioned it in the written question at least. Now to come to the main issue, however, if anyone reads the written question, some of what you say seems reasonable. Let's see if it is, though. First of all, the priesthood is nothing new. There is currently an institutional framework for hunting in Greece which includes all kinds of hunting among them. It is not, therefore, that we brought something that was not there. It is already covered by the institutional framework. What we've done is we've got some extra security requirements. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the Secretary-General]] Madam President, may I continue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u63	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much. Two - if possible! - You're asking if it seems to a reasonable person that it makes sense to allow the priesthood. I would remind you that UNESCO has described priesthood as an element of the global cultural heritage. Ask UNESCO how it seems possible. But UNESCO believes so. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] There is also a Directive of the European Union, 147/2009, in favour of the conservation of wild birds, which incorporates the priesthood into the acceptable pregnancy activity. It's 2009. And too many countries in the European Union allow for the procession and that is why. Indeed, the European Union itself - and here I will stop not wasting any more time, then I will respond - says that the priesthood has positive consequences and mentions some specific reasons for health and public safety, prevention of serious damage to crops, domestic animals, research purposes, enrichment of populations, breeding, etc. There's enough, I can testify to you. In other words, the directive itself and it recommends the priesthood and sets out specific reasons why it is recommended. So, if possible, it seems possible. Both UNESCO and the European Union are possible. But then I'll keep going so I won't waste any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u66	Minister, because you are in an attempt to rescue this government by constantly justifying them, this puts you in a position that you will judge. But what should I answer what you said first? I'll start at the beginning, then. For UNESCO who has made the priesthood a world heritage? I mean, if that scorpion is a world heritage, should Australia start building with dry stones? Where is the world heritage of the priesthood, Mr. Undersecretary? Where is he? Wherever there were kings, wherever there were aristocrats, to tell you differently, in England, in the United Kingdom, and it continues to exist as a continuation of aristocracy in two other countries. In Greece, what is the tradition, Mr. Undersecretary? Do you want me to tell you who asked for the priesthood to start in Greece? The Prince of Abbu Dhabi did it. He sent a letter to the Minister. Congratulations! Follow the recommendations of the Prince of Abbu Dhabi! That's the kind of thing you do! With regard to the directive that allows the procession and recommends it and provides for it, do you know what it says? It says that it can be used as an environmental regulator, 'if there is no other solution'. At last, read right at least! Finally! For the article you mentioned about hunting, it is signed by Mr. Papadopoulos as Prime Minister. This is the article that describes the hunt only as a demonstration of power against nature. This is all his basic principle, if you read it, before Article 24, Minister. Mercy! Mercy! You want to defend everything, but that's not defendable. You've got to drop it! What else can I tell you? That we have clear reports - and I put them in the Minutes - about how the predators are stealing from nature? You want me to tell you how they're trained? You can't imagine. They hang them backwards on a rope, letting them fly and run, leaving them sleepless - these are the preachers! - and other things that are torture for man and that's what you're going to do now? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u67	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much. Look, I answered you with arguments and you answer me in a way that... I repeat, firstly, that is something that is already allowed. Secondly, UNESCO has described it as an element of the global cultural heritage. You're telling me that's what happened because in the areas where there were kings, they used the hawk. What can we do? There were many parts of the world in the past centuries of kings. Should UNESCO not describe it or should it be regarded as a cultural heritage only where there are kings yet? Fortunately, we have been absolved from the kings! I do not think the other countries that no longer have a king have forbidden the priesthood for that reason. Indeed, that is an outrageous argument. They are characterized by UNESCO as a cultural heritage and you say to me 'our shame!'. What can I tell you? All right, everybody's got their senses, of course. I also repeat, because you have perhaps not heard it, that the European Union is allowing the process of priesthood. What you said: 'where there is no other possibility', read it. What will he say 'There is no other way'? When is there no other way? Is there any way to make sure that there is no other way than the priesthood? What's that supposed to mean? As appropriate, with prey, under the conditions, with the region, priesthood is an effective means of maintaining the balance of populations. Do you know this isn't happening in Greece? Did you prove it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u69	Do you want me to read the paragraph?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u70	I've read it, don't worry. But, in any case, to close in a more consensual way, look at this: first, in the bill that we have brought, we anticipate that the priesthood will be restricted. Actually, what we've brought is to put the limitations on, because it's allowed today. Ferry says the previous governments didn't ban her. It's allowed today. What we are bringing is to place specific restrictions linked to the certification of origin, the labelling of the grapes, the specific training and certification of the hierarchies, the specificisation of the areas that will be permitted to do so, so that what you say is permitted in areas where there are no other practical solutions to maintain a balance in specific species. And, finally, the cost of obtaining the relevant hierarchy permits means that it is not something that each of us can buy and do. It will be an exceptional way in exceptional areas. In any case, in the next period, the Ministry of the Environment will enter into a dialogue with all stakeholders and priesthood associations and environmental actors in order to discuss how exactly with these kinds of restrictions a specific, clear and effective framework will be introduced to regulate the hierarchy. Everything else looks like a crown to me and I don't care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. We are now moving on to the second with number 5228/244-27-2020 question and requesting the submission of documents of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An inadequacy of motives and anti-motors to sort in the source and recycling". Here you go, Mr. Famele, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Secretaries, ladies and gentlemen, we are here once again in a work that we have seen very often in the last six months. Mr Hatzidakis does not come to answer the questions he is addressing and instructs Mr Economou in this regard to answer the issue of recycling without having competence. At least Mr Thomas next has the subject of energy, partly because the other question is about water, Mr Thomas. However, in any case, Mr Economou has been taking many questions out of order lately. In fact, I must say, Mr President, that the question that we have tabled and not answered within forty-five days also included a request for documents. And since this was repeated a week ago, Mr Economou, and it was a question of compensation for recycling, and so far at least I have not received the documents, I must say, Mr President, that we can, after forty-five days, hold the debate orally. But what about the documents? And now we have documents again, Mr Economou, which I do not know whether or not they will be submitted. But let us come to the specific question, because we are concerned with parliamentary control. At least we and you, in our presence, honour Parliament. Mr Hatzidakis has to honour parliamentary control at least one semester. So our issue is recycling, and particularly the sorting at source. In the period of our country's bankruptcy, when things were very difficult in Greece, we also had to resolve the issue of waste management and the total lack of political screening at source from the former governments of New Democracy and PASOK. So then, then, SYRIZA did a very big reform beginning with national planning. It established two laws concerning the screening at source and a full framework for recycling. We finally ended up with the agreement of the European Commission, and with the presence of the Director-General of the European Union Directorate-General for the Environment here in Zappeion, in the communication of the strategic circular economy with the presence of all self-government and acceptance by it and the whole business world, while at the same time there was a great social process of discussion. But this whole process, Mr. Economou, has stopped. The circular economy strategy is not progressing, and the main thing is that no fully legislated SYRIZA reforms concerning screening have been implemented at source, motivation and counter-incentives. So there was a ministerial decision, my own and Mr Haritsis, which fully described the application of the tariff policy, so that it would be possible for municipalities to have a discount on solid waste management based on the recycling factor and the source sorting factor. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In practice that means that citizens, whether households or professionals, should pay less to waste management if they are recycling, something that all Europe has and something that would give incentive and incentive to move things forward in our country and, at least, to apologize to the authorities for what they have in public. Unfortunately, however, this does not seem to be within the Ministry's priorities. I found the axes presented for recycling by the New Democracy Government on November 12th. Nowhere is the application of incentives and anti-motors. I repeat that there was a legislative arrangement approved by Europe and I hope that it will be accepted. Because the Minister in a debate we held here in Parliament at a similar question said that he accepted it and would implement it. However, from the documents we have found so far, unfortunately only two solid waste management bodies have, he says, voted. We do not know whether it has been implemented and we are waiting for your reply. There is at the moment no information, at least to us as citizens, as to whether "I pay as much as I fly", that is, if there is any incentive to our municipalities, and therefore to us citizens, to recycle them. On the contrary, we see statements by the Secretary for Waste Management that at least to us, who had served in this position, as well, it gives the impression that he does not know what the European institutional framework is. There are some incredible targets, such as that recycling will be 30%, and Europe will have to put more than 50% or also economic penalty debates.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Femmelle, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, Mr. Secretary, to close and continue, the questions are repeated and have been referred again to Mr. Hatzidakis: Will the government support the application of incentives or anti-motors? How is the institutional framework currently being implemented? Are there, for one, voted invoicing regulations? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u75	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start over. You mentioned that Mr. Hatzidakis is not here and I am here. You know, the political leadership has a united responsibility for the ministry's policy, and anyone who can answer for anyone can only have the authority. And sometimes I've answered for Mr. Hatzidakis, and I've been happy. And if I judge the way my answers to your friendly newspapers have been presented, I have a right to be pleased. To make this clear, only the question and a falsification of my reply are mentioned. I've never seen my answers! Let us move on to the specific question of the submission of documents. Look at that. You requested this on 25 March.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u77	That one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u78	Yeah, if I'm not mistaken, you asked for it on March 25th. Isn't that right? This means that dozens of documents must be collected in the middle of the turbulence caused by the coronary, come from many municipalities and many bodies, centralised in the ministry, channel Parliament and reach you. Well, it is inevitable, when there is such a great difficulty of collecting all this material, that there is a delay. But don't worry, we're preparing it and it'll be given to you very quickly. But, in fact, I think it is strange for you that it is not understood that it is not too much, under current conditions, for such a collection of such a large material. I shall begin with some facts, namely the following. You mentioned that SYRIZA passed a law on recycling and the "green" economy. Yes, sir! When did he vote for him? This Decision shall enter into force on the I have the impression that by May 2019 SYRIZA was a government for four and a half years. He had not taken care of anything about recycling and the "green" economy and brought it just before the elections, having this good idea: to predict environmental fees, but to put their application not immediately but from the beginning of 2020, in other words, knowing safely that it would not be the government of SYRIZA, but the New Democracy. Even if you didn't confess, you knew. So you dropped the ball in New Democracy, and now you come and ask for the change for something that you did the last minute before the elections. I therefore reply directly to you that environmental charges will certainly be applied. That's the first. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Secondly, since May and the elections that took place later, the administrations of the FVO had to change, so that was an additional reason for delaying their activation. Nevertheless, by the end of 2019, the regulations had already come out in two regions, and at the moment the regulations have been in other four regions. Then there were eastern Macedonia - Thrace and western Macedonia, now there is the western Thessaly, Epirus, Crete and Attica, which is in the last stage. It has sent the municipalities the draft regulation, the municipalities have responded, the deadline has expired and it is now going on. So, anything but we've slipped. It is progressing rapidly and in less than a year there have been multiples of what has been done in about five years. These regions, in other words, include, if I remember well, some sixty-four municipalities, without Attica, of the thirty-three that I think exist. So within a very short period of time the matter has gone ahead. These regulations now provide for fees to be charged. It is laid down in the regulations and will start to apply. In order to start applying, an elementary time is needed. It will start to apply. If it hasn't been implemented by the end of the year, come tell us. I will reply to you again, of course, then that you did so in May 2019, but I will be less right then. But, Mr President, let me stop here and finish in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u79	Yes, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, with your first answer, I think you have fully justified my introduction. You mentioned that the administration cannot collect within forty-five days documents and be sent to the House so that we can be informed. It is therefore two things: firstly, that the administration is not prioritised at source and invoicing policy, and therefore it must ask for opposition or parliamentary control to know what is going on, which should be your priority. In other words, I would not be able to carry out the duties of the Minister for the Environment. You don't have competence, I repeat. It has nothing to do with the overall responsibility of parliamentary control. It has to do with the knowledge of everyday life, the political object. So you expect a MP or opposition to ask you what is going on with the incentive and anti-motor policy, to ask for documents from the PHOTOs and the municipalities to inform us. This is your deficit, that you are only politicizing according to your logic but on the essential issues, such as the circular economy, we must ask you, to learn. That proves the second problem here. If you were the person responsible, at least, I could criticise you because you don't know what you're talking about. But now that you are coming for a portfolio that is not yours, you answer as you are due to parliamentary control - and I personally do not raise a question, for the Minister, but you do not know to tell me what the reality is. So it is confirmed that the Ministry does not pursue a policy on incentives and counter-recycling, but expects the opposition to ask to ask the municipalities. But this is disgraceful for Greece and even when the government the previous legislated in 2017, Minister - because you do not have the object, you do not know - and then again in 2018 in the "CLITHENH" for the implementation of the municipalities. Then came the executive ministerial decisions, after dialogue with the government, which asked for a year and a half to prepare. And we're all here with the Commission and we've approved 1-1-2020. You say we did it to make it difficult for you. Okay, you probably have no idea what we're talking about, and it's insulting what you're saying we did it to make it difficult for you. We did it because we want to help our country. You obviously prefer to put everything on the SYRIZA, because you cannot apologize for your own policy. But I ask you what you did. So you admitted that you have no idea what is going on in the municipalities, that you should ask them what they are doing about pricing policy, that a situation is developing late in law, whereas the ministerial implementation decision - not the laws - had been completed, as the Commission wanted, earlier. Do you know why earlier, Mr. Undersecretary? Because - something you also do not know - Directive 2018/850 provided for what SYRIZA had earlier legislated. We have succeeded, precisely because we are following the reforms of Europe, to have the same step. I am not saying that we have prevented Europe, nor do I want to be so superfluous. Sometimes it's you. We have no such authority, we are people of popular politics. We have therefore had time to incorporate these reforms in order for our country to be ready, correct and consistent on 1 January to implement it. The question, then, is simple: Which municipalities is price policy implemented to benefit the citizen and businessman, pay less if he makes recycling? Because in this great reform we have had two tools and I will inform you, since you do not have the object. First, there must be an invoice pyramid to each operator, so that the environmental footprint is displayed at the price and not only the economics, i.e. the cost of production, and so that burial is more accurate than processing or composting. Secondly, there should be a discount for each municipality based on the diversion coefficient from burial, recycling and - if you like - biowaste treatment. Instead of all the things that are included, I repeat, in the 2018 and 2018 directive, we started to legislate in 2017 and 2018, quite rightly, we see that you do not apply what the 2018 Directives say, that you do not know what self-government is doing and all I see is to privatise waste management, that I hear, Mr President, both in Athens and in Thessaloniki and in Attica, and that you are now abstaining from what was launched in the country, that is, a reform with public European resources, for the benefit of the citizen and the environment, with lower tariffs for the citizen and the businessman. And finally, neither the citizen nor the entrepreneur benefits from the New Democracy policy and practically the disapproval of workers, the small and medium-sized and the business community is overall from the environment policy and "the name has come out of you" that you are the most anti-environmental government that has existed in recent years. And that's what all non-governmental organisations say, and that's what your friend-in-law says many times and don't look into the press that is not, in your opinion, a government-friendly. Because you have learned to read the media on the basis of this criterion, as you have given the money for "We Stay Home" and "We Stay Safe." Look out, Mr. Undersecretary. We ask you specific questions. Reply when recycling will go ahead, when the incentives will be applied, not privatisation, burning and all the rest that you have in mind to settle "the next". That is the question to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Femmelle. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. You said you did not bring the law in May 2019 - and let me offend you for saying that you did it to make it difficult for the next government - and that you did it from patriotism. So you guys are patriots and we're not? That's what you're suggesting, unless you don't know what that means. You insult us and insult us in a way that is innocent. Because we didn't question your patriotism. We questioned - and this, in particular, has been done by the Greek people - your ability, which has been demonstrated in the past five years. Recycling does not exist as a process since 2017. Recycling has existed a long time ago. What has SYRIZA done all this time? What was the recycling rate that Greece had reached when the new government received? Did you have to wait in 2017 for the then Community directive to move on to recycling? Before you couldn't? In other countries how did they do it? So this argument is funny. What is given - and because you mentioned that I am falsifying reality - is this and I will tell you three realities. First, you brought him the law in May 2019. Secondly, the recycling rate was insignificant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u83	What law is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u84	Thirdly, you did not implement directly but you legislated from 1-1-2020. You had an absolute right to legislate beforehand. To come to this incredible argument you used that we don't know what the municipalities are doing and that we're learning what the municipalities are doing because you asked us for the evidence. Really, it's outrageous. You asked us for specific evidence. What the municipalities do, we know. However, in order to have the specific information you requested, we had to ask the municipalities. I can't come and tell you the end result right now. You ask for specific information from the municipalities. We asked the municipalities to bring us through a coronary. And now you're saying that this means the government doesn't know what municipalities do! Really, what to tell you! If you think that this is the case, then your friendly newspapers tomorrow let them say it again. You know who I mean. From that point on, you will be given details of what the municipalities do. I told you that the operating regulations are progressing quickly. A prerequisite for the introduction of fees is that there should be rules of operation. They're on their way. I have already told you that more than half of the regions have this regulation, with the exception of Central Greece - perhaps you know and I do not know if you agree - where there was a draft regulation rejected by the municipalities, on the grounds that they do not like to pay the fees! I don't know if you agree, but that was the argument of the municipalities. However, this does not mean that it will not apply. As I told you, the government is committed to implementing them. Among other reasons for delaying recycling and the whole rational management of waste are the huge delays in all waste management infrastructures. These huge delays are linked to the delays in environmental licensing. When we brought mechanisms for speeding up environmental authorisations under environmental law - it is not something strange, as there is throughout the rest of Europe - you were shouting. On the other hand, you are blaming us that there are no mechanisms and procedures required by these infrastructures. You can't have it all yours. We speed up environmental licensing and proceed with the infrastructure and all the procedures necessary to both recycling and waste management in general. I inform you that the updated national waste management plan will be announced in June 2020, in less than a year since the government took over. Remember how SYRIZA had to prepare something like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u85	I do. Do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u86	Of course I do. You tell me. You're asking me? Why answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u87	When did he get out? You don't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u88	Please don't make such a dialogue. Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u89	I know the cabinet act that came out. Do you know her? You're the ones who ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u90	I'm asking myself about specific things I'm answering. I tell you that in total, the whole SYRIZA civil waste management has resulted in a zero recycling at the end of the five years. That's what I'm saying. I don't know if you want to question it, but you can't question it. I think I have answered all the questions you have raised. I'm at your disposal for anything else you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u91	Good. In the last three times, the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Gerasimos Thomas, will answer. Please keep time, you see I'm elastic. We continue with the question under No 5220/243/27-2020 question and application for the submission of documents by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Security of access to basic social goods during the pandemic period”. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Now, of course, I take advantage of the position and the debate. Mr. Economou, the SYRIZA Ministerial Council Act on National Planning was in 2015, less than a year and the law was 4496/2017, you were wrong in 2019. Mr Thomas, we are here to discuss a matter that goes a little beyond the issue of your own portfolio, since our question also concerned water and energy, I will in any case hear your answers. However, my initial comment on the absence of Mr Hatzidakis remains and the question put by the President is whether we will also have documents available from this debate. The question of access for citizens and businesses to water and energy is a key issue horizontally for our policy. In the opinion of SYRIZA, it is a constitutional right. New Democracy did not accept to enter the Constitutional Review, but we, especially in the pandemic period, put it intensifiedly. On 27 March, if I am not mistaken, I contacted SYRIZA on behalf of Mr Hatzidakis, I tabled four SYRIZA proposals on this issue, which meant that there would be no interruption of supply for water and energy, whether in vulnerable households or in enterprises which were closed down by the pandemic, that is to say, on a government's mandate. It was the health protocol, which all of us had to not increase in the prices in 2020 in water, sewerage, gas, electricity, there was an extension of repayment that we proposed for six months, which was implemented by several regulators in the Mediterranean, and it is something that I reminded Mr Hatzidakis and there is also an investigation of the possibility of covering costs with special social groups that are presenting today with Alexis Tsipras, SYRIZA has included in the economic, financial package that, in fact, supports society. Of all this, however, there is a great contradiction that while SYRIZA has tabled a proposal, which is budgetaryly viable and supports society, we have heard nothing from the government. For these specific measures we have not heard and we have therefore tabled a question to you, which, unfortunately, has not been answered in writing for for forty-five days, whether there is a proposal from the Government or a regulation based on the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, so that the professionals who, on the mandate of the Government, have closed their shops for the purpose of not cutting off the current, that there are no water increases in several municipalities. We discussed with Mr Economou last week on a topic and I tabled documents - evidence - and, if you like, there is no obstacle to access to water and energy for citizens and professionals. You know, Minister, it is tragic to ask the elderly, to ask the disabled, to ask the vulnerable social groups to stay at home, and at the same time, Mr Secretary, to come documents from PPC, which threaten them to cut the current for debts. It is tragic that there will be 20% increases in energy, that the energy cost of a tourist OTA has been increased, that the association of the OAUs has been mentioned because of an unjust, unjust and pointless increase in energy that you made on 1 September - and here you also have political responsibility - and that the state does not take action, that we all fight life, that society fight life and not exercise its duty as the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The Ministry of Environment and Energy was one of the ministries that missed features of this battle. The rest of the ministries lame - wrong with great shortcomings - took some measures, the Ministry of the Environment nothing. Even the measure we have heard about guaranteeing or supporting energy companies, Mr Secretary, we have not seen it. So we ask that you give us the documents and tell us in particular what the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has done and what he is doing today to ensure access to water and energy. I shall continue, Mr President, in my dentistry, so that I do not violate time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all there is a repetition of the lack of response to parliamentary control. I would like to say that a lot of questions have been answered by the Minister for Energy. I have to submit answers, which have been answered by Mr Hatzidakis, on this issue, on the measures taken in the midst of the crisis. I also want to say that this is happening to other governments. I've got the evidence here, and I'll testify. I have a reply from Mr Stathakis, who was Minister to the previous government, with which a thousand unanswered questions existed until April 2019 by the previous government in parliamentary control. Four thousand thirty two questions were tabled and three thousand twenty were answered. In 2018 only 25% of the questions were answered. Therefore, particularly in a time of crisis, I think we should focus on the substance and not focus too much on these issues, where there are many questions. In addition, there are two questions in the next question on the same subject. I would like to say that the Government's response to the issues of the primary crisis that we had, I believe, is acceptable to the entire Greek people. According to the figures from all measurements, society and businesses show a great deal of acceptance of the measures taken during the health crisis and continue for the health crisis and also in the economic support measures that were taken and announced last week. We are talking about human lives, so it is very important that we have zero tolerance, but that has taken too many measures. On 30 March we announced measures, such as that wet-fuel stations were incorporated into the SMRs of enterprises where workers are entitled to EUR 800 compensation. The same applies to workers in the customer service shops of energy enterprises and activities. Energy companies can use the Ministry of Development Guarantee Fund. Through this Fund, investment by commercial banks is granted by the Greek Development Bank for the purpose of lending businesses, including energy enterprises. To cope with the crisis, which has arisen from the coronary, the Fund gives 80% guarantee. With regard to power cuts, the protection framework remains in force and is being strengthened. No connection of energy or water has been interrupted by households who had to pay, and that is self-evident, it has simply been sought to search for the debts of strategic poor payers, those who, while being able to repay their debts, did not do so. With the actions of our Ministry, thirty-four fellow citizens saw the current reconnect, although their applications had been approved for reconnection since the beginning of last year, but the previous government had not taken care of the money required to make these reconnections. In the midst of a crisis, thirty-four households were reconnected, which we found the resources to do. Also, by proving the support of our most vulnerable fellow citizens, we extended the network of protection to vulnerable consumers and we have taken care to benefit from a thousand hundred and fifty low-income households, which were disconnected by the network up to 30 April 2020. Thus, we broaden the protection network to those who really need it by strengthening the specific account of the TEN. Finally, as the House has been informed and through parliamentary control, PPC and some other energy providers have taken measures to facilitate consumers and serve the public on the basis of the provisions of the Act of Legislative Content A75/30-3-2020. The next item is my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u96	Unfortunately, Mr President, even though it has a European culture, the State Secretary has not avoided the mistake made by this government in making comparisons with SYRIZA. You know, Undersecretary, when you oppose the opposition to the opposition, you prove that you cannot do the government and deal with what the Greek people have judged, with how Mr Stathakis would answer, to justify that you are not answering the House. This is not an honour for you, for you do not respond properly to Parliament's obligations. We want you to tell us, in fact, something that is crucial. We are talking about access to water and energy for vulnerable social groups and entrepreneurs, who have had to shut down their businesses during the pandemic, and you tell me what Mr Stathakis did if he answered the questions? I want you to tell me - I repeat the question - what have you guys done? For the guarantee of energy companies, I have heard nothing. You've announced too much. So I expect to see the documents that prove that this government is doing something in this area, which for me is not the only priority. On the other hand, you have used as an excuse and argument that you have a high percentage in polling. So I'll read you the polls now. I would ask you to answer them, too. It's shameful to say that you've found a mechanism to keep the current from being cut off by the households who had to pay. But, Undersecretary, we are not asking for the households who had to pay for the pandemic period, but for those who stopped their work, who have closed their shops for two months, who are vulnerable social groups. We ask you about these groups, and I ask you to answer them. Obviously, anyone who can pay has to pay, because this will support the operation of the energy companies, but we are talking about those who cannot pay. We ask you what you have done so that one of our fellow citizens will not be deprived of access to water and energy. Unfortunately, we have complaints that you even cut off last week to long-term unemployed, long-term sufferers and vulnerable households. For them, Minister, we want you to tell us. We shall be tabling documents, Mr President, and I shall continue. Firstly, on April 6, there is a report by ENERGYPRESS, which I will testify, which says "the TEN takes its cut". He's asking the D.C.E.E.E.L.'s asking the power companies to cut off the current. I shall put it before you, Mr President, then. We come back and find facts which I will read. In Elias there are dozens of cases of cut-off current, in Serres, in Drama, in Rhodope, in Evros. I do not know, perhaps other colleagues and other incidents could say. A cut stream from professionals who did not owe 2019, Mr President, but only for a February 2020 debt by private alternative providers. What did you do for them? They closed their catering shops, because they had to shut down in March and cut off their current, because they were closed. Do you want me to testify our own gulope, Mr. Secretary? At the same time, the Federation of Professionals and Crafts of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace publicly - with a post that I have in my hands and I will present to you - on 29 April, it says that you wash your hands on anything that happens on the energy market. That's your globe. You are addressing them, Mr Thomas, against the professionals and vulnerable households, who need support. So nothing is going to happen and I will put this in the Minutes, Mr President. I would like to say one final comment on the mechanism you have reworked. Well, you're right. We told you good that you'd retreated him. SYRIZA had him active, and if I'm not mistaken, 25m euros had been allocated for reconnecting vulnerable households. So I have a press release from 17 or 18 May that you activated this mechanism. I will therefore present to you the case of a citizen - who is a long-term unemployed person, with income last year of EUR 4 000 from a joint programme alone, with long-term suffering in his home, which PPC cut off last week, who went to a PPC office on May 22nd and called for this reunification mechanism to be exploited, and PPC did not give him the right, because it had not been informed. So, did you announce something that does not apply? Excuse me, but a thousand and fifty households suspect it's just the social footprint of the pandemic? Only a thousand and fifty households will have a reunion problem? Only a thousand two hundred fifty households across Greece will you support? I think the print is too small. I think that you need to activate substantial mechanisms and you need to tell us essentially what you are going to do and see the documents, Mr Secretary, because we have asked you for documents. I, therefore, put forward a list of what the federations of many counties of professionals, who are certainly not of the SYRIZA, who are autonomous mechanisms and that is how they should be. These are your goulops, that you wash your hands. That's what they're writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Femmelle. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u98	I guess Mr. Famelos didn't hear the evidence I gave. Look, the situation is actually very different from the one you're describing. I am talking about the possibility for citizens to pay the bills and the government's response. First of all, the citizens responded very responsibly to this crisis. The government's measures were horizontal, they gave support to both the entrepreneurs and the citizens and the old and the unemployed, so that they could meet their obligations. For example, we have seen the following attribute in the energy accounts. 54 percent of the people who pay their energy bills paid them in cash in the guise. We would therefore expect that this 54% of people who could not leave the house will not go to pay, but we have seen that this figure, in fact, was less than 20%. What does that mean? It means that the citizens responded responsibly to the possibilities offered by the government's measures by legislative acts, which we changed the landscape to electronic and telephone transactions. We have given citizens the opportunity to pay and to be informed and to change their suppliers and to do everything either by telephone or electronic, with particular incentives in this way and on this subject and to be able to meet their obligations. Therefore, we have greatly reduced the number of people or households or businessmen found in this situation, because we have seen that from where 54% of the world paid in the guise and could not leave the house, less than 20% did not pay. Everyone else paid. The horizontal measures given by the state, the money it gave and responded. They were very responsible and are to the credit of the Greek people. In this way, we have been able to proceed responsibly. Also, the power's not cut. PPC didn't cut any bills on any households. It seems to me that you're confusing PPC with the D.D.D. with what you're saying, but the D.D.D. is responsible for cutting. PPC suppliers have not cut off any connections. Of the remaining suppliers, with common acceptance, no vulnerable consumer or consumer who had less than 90 days to pay has been cut off. Nevertheless, we found the money, to make the connections, the thirty-four, the thousand two hundred and fifty, and, as I said in my first reply, it was money that you had predicted, but you had not implemented it. You had predicted the way, but you had not implemented it. This is something that is often done, which is right as an idea, but that is not the case, and that is what we are trying to implement. As far as guarantees are concerned, at first - and that is why you are perhaps referring - we had the idea of making a mechanism which would guarantee suppliers of electricity. They were the ones who would not have taken the money first, they would have a liquidity problem and there would have been a guarantee mechanism for energy suppliers. What did we actually do? We did something a little different, the mechanism is a little more complicated than the articles you read. We had an MDG, which provides that suppliers, who have been late payment of the regulated revenues in the accounts, these MDG-based suppliers, Article 84, on 13-4-2020, are not obliged to pay the regulated revenues to managers directly, can pay them thirty days later and pay them back in four instalments. Therefore, a mechanism was made on the basis of this PPP, with the RAE opinion, with proper legality. RAE opinion was delivered with RAE opinion so that suppliers could delay the payment of regulated revenues. These suppliers were therefore not required to obtain a guarantee mechanism. They have been extended and facilitated in order to pay this money in a different way and, in fact, in order to avoid the liquidity problem of managers, arrangements are made with which there is lending from the DEDEFOP and the IPPC. The Legislative Act provides that the APRC as a manager is now able to borrow if there is a problem as a result of a reduction in revenue. The same applies to TENs and PPC, as they will have access to loans from the European Investment Bank and the EBRD. We have therefore dealt with issues in a system and with proper legalisation. The PPPs? We had an RAE opinion so that we could have a coordinate system. Indeed, the energy sector currently has no problem. We expect and monitor what is happening in the energy sector, in the gas sector and in the oil sector on a daily basis. We are ready to respond and we have the necessary tools, if necessary, either to increase the periods that we have established or something else. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Gerasimis Thomas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. You know, I want to ask you a question. You said that PPC didn't cut off anyone's current, because the power cuts it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u100	But PPC ordered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u101	He didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u102	I'm sorry, I don't want to intervene, but a few days ago I had a debate as a Member of Parliament with professionals from West Athens. On that day they had cut off the current of the president of Aigaleo’s professionals. You said PPC doesn't cut the power, but the DEDU is cutting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u103	Unless he's a bad payer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u104	The second question under number 714/18-5-2020 will now be discussed in the second half of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, with the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The developments in the 'Prelea Kavalas' and the safeguarding of all jobs, workers' rights and their contracts of employment'. The third question will also be discussed under number 699/15-2020 in the context of the second question by the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Serious concerns in the wider region of Kavala from the operating problems of ENERGEAN’, and the effects they may have on workers and indirectly dependent undertakings’. These two topical questions will be discussed together. No time will be wasted, in other words Mr Stoltides will speak two and three minutes, Mrs Eleftheriadou again two and three minutes and the Minister will answer for six minutes. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the Gulf of Kavala, for the last forty-five years, as it is known, the only production unit throughout the country is in the oil mining industry, where today some 200 seventy employees are working under contracts at the "GENERGIAKI S.A.", as well as with contractors. The company prepares the ground for its next steps, invoking the international situation with the drop in oil prices and reduced production. It also leaves the lock open. The company's apparent objective is to make, if not active supporters, at least responsible recipients of any adverse changes to its own employees. At the same time, he is pressing for new privileges and "gifts" by the government, like what he has taken on the occasion of the issue of the coronary. The "ENERGIAKI" has officially stated its interest in the exploitation of the Basement Gas Warehouse Kavala, an investment which is in the final phase in the opening of the tender, following the inclusion of the project in the list of European Interest Works. On the one hand, it is preparing to attack labour rights because it does not achieve the expected profits, and on the other hand, it is entering new investments with the people's warm state and Euro-Union money. The Government has rushed to give the cover to the company's tactics by appealing to viability problems. Together with the company, however, the government has forgotten that for a decade now the "GENERGIA" has exploited the oil extracted by the workers - not anyone else - and is the property of the entire Greek people, regardless of whether it is in the hands of the business group. They forget that only in 2018 has there been a 45% increase in production on an annual basis, i.e. four thousand fifty three barrels of oil per day, a 56% increase in revenues at 90.3 million dollars, and a 29% reduction in production costs at 17.6 dollars per barrel. They forget that in addition to huge profitability, the benefits for "ENERGY" are multiple. Prinos opened her way for international partnerships in Catalonia, Israel and Montenegro for new mining, but also for its agreement with "BP" in 2014 for the sale of Prinos oil to her, when government intervention overtaken in the night until then an obstacle to the exclusive concession agreement for ELPE. In view of this, therefore, you are asking, Minister, what is the official position of the government, obviously the company, on developments and what the government will do to ensure that the workers' jobs, their rights and their contracts of employment are fully respected? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. Mrs. Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Undersecretary, in their history, Prinos' facilities have been through a lot of refluxes. From 1981 to December 1998, when the foreign consortium of NAPC left hundreds of workers on the road, from 1999 to the contract was ratified between the Greek State and the "Kavala OIL" and so far, the operation of the mining activity in the deposits of the Kavala region has continued uninterruptedly, bringing the country's only hydrocarbon deposits to the surface, those of Prinos and Northern Prinos, contributing to both the local and national economies. Over the years, workers even with the self-management system from 2005 to 2007 kept our country on the oil-producing countries' map with many sacrifices both of themselves and of the indirect suppliers involved who supported this project at the same cost. In 2008, the ‘Energy Aegean’ acquired a majority of its shares in ‘Kavala OIL’. In 2013, the Greek State extended the concessions of Prinos for twenty-five years, with the aim of and by agreement to the realisation of the new investment programme, this new ‘E’ deposit, which has not been made until now. In August 2019, ‘OIL S.A. Kavala’ is merged with the mother’s ‘Energean Oil and Gas’, under the name ‘Energean Kavala’, while implementing the company’s investment program. For a decade, therefore, ENERGY has exploited the oil extracted by the workers, having continued profitable uses. I would also confirm to the previous colleague that in 2008 with a company communication there was an increase of 45% on an annual basis and production reached four thousand barrels of oil and there was a 56% increase in revenue. Since April 2020, for a short period of time, the price of oil has fallen to $20 a barrel. Since then, it has been slowly rising, and today we have $35 the barrel. I would also like to point out that with the $35 per barrel, if production increases, operating costs are covered. It's just that there's no profit in the past few years that the barrel had reached all 70 dollars. In the debate on the Legislation of the Ministry of Environment and Energy on the modernisation of environmental legislation, the Prime Minister noted: "The existing oil well in Prinos, which has been functioning uninterruptedly forty-five years since the investment does not come out with the existing oil prices." This came as a culmination in confirming various publications, which were talking about the possibility of closing the mining process in Prino, losing some two hundred fifty jobs and economically affected the entire surrounding area and its related, either immediately or indirectly, businesses. This statement by the Prime Minister in some way was disproved by Mr Georgiadis, who, in a journalist's question, said that the price of oil is rising and therefore the "ENERGYIAKI" may not have to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u108	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u109	I shall be very brief in my dentistry, Mr President. Combining these statements has brought even greater tension to local society, even greater uncertainty to the workers and businesses involved in the "ENERGY", and that is why a concrete answer is needed today: What initiatives will the government take to continue to take in the privation and what will be the Government's moves to avoid even a temporary "false" of activity, resulting in hundreds of jobs being lost and having a very large financial cost to local society and companies directly or indirectly related? I would like to say to you that I have discussed teleconferencing with the company and it has presented to me a rescue plan, which has assured me that you have it in your hands too, in which it speaks of reducing operating costs and reducing jobs, in addition to the others it asks, which I shall mention in my dentistry. I imagine he is in your knowledge. I would therefore like your opinion on what the company is asking for and how the jobs and the acquired labour and trade union rights of workers will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thanks for the questions, too. I will say first - firstly that the juncture that we had affected many sectors, each sector a little differently, and even though the situation creates as a result of the government's measures, the response of the citizens, business, the Greek people's responsible attitude, even when some things have been corrected, some remains in all branches of this four-month period in which we had financial problems. So in this case what do we have? We have a sharp drop in the price of oil, which touched the $20 per barrel and created financial pressure on all the companies in the oil industry. Prices are beginning to be adjusted. He's right now at $35 a barrel. Last year, for example, it was $43 to 45 on average. We therefore have even lower prices, but we cannot eradicate the period at which prices were low and production had fallen. At the moment, 2020 has fallen to about half in relation to the corresponding period of 2019. I would also like to clarify some of the points that have been made in the questions. In 2018, there was indeed a significant increase in the revenues of the company ‘ENERGEAN’. It was reported that it was EUR 90.3 million. It was just under 80m euros from about 50m in 2017. We are just under 80 million instead of the 90.3 million mentioned. There was also a reduction in operating costs, as mentioned in the question, in EUR 18,3 per barrel from 27,1 in 2017. However, in 2019 the cost was up again at 26,5 and now it has been up again enough. The cost per barrel also depends on the production that takes place. We therefore have - it makes sense for this sector - a variation in the cost of production and the costs remain high in relation to other deposits due to the quality of the look we have. We must now come to the substance. We are committed to local society. This company, which operates in the region of Prinos, is about three hundred employees - who have additional jobs and economic activities that depend on this activity, investments made and benefit from the whole region, all this activity is important to maintain, not to close, because the costs of relaunching are unbearable both for local society and for any investor. I think that overall so far this activity has brought benefits to local society. Since 2008, over EUR 450 million have been invested, the contribution to the local society is EUR 165 million and to the national economy from all the relevant activities of EUR 340 million, and at the same time - I would say this to both fellow Members who have asked the questions - there have been no reductions in the environment, no accident and there has been environmental protection in the region of the Gulf of Kavala. I say this because in the environmental draft debate there was a question about the feasibility of the exploitation of hydrocarbons, which both parties now say should continue because it is important. The government's policy to support the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is therefore justified. It is also confirmed by the case of Prenos that we had no environmental problem, even though we are in NATURA areas. Just to remind us that some of the issues raised in the previous bill are being cancelled at the moment. The government is seriously facing the problem. It wants to keep the production and viability of this activity continuous. The Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Finance discuss with the salaried company all aspects of the matter, with a view to overcoming this juncture and finding suitable solutions that are solid in order to continue the extraction of oil and to develop and exploit the "E". The rest in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. We must say, Minister, that it does not help us, but we believe that we are on the right basis in terms of secondary education, because we know the direction and the basis of politics. You have not answered what you will do to ensure both jobs and the collective rights of workers. It is another example - we must say to the Greek people, to the workers - of what they have to expect of the fair, sustainable capitalist development that you are evangelizing as government, but also the previous government and the previous ones. All of you, however, have to say - why generalization is helping here - and the New Democracy as government and SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Mer25, the Greek Solution, you have undertaken the task assigned to you by the large business groups. You've done it art. All your political position, party status, your processes are, to reverse reality, to present, that is, the carcinoma, the ganger that rotates the body of the economy, growth, the very social evolution as a driving force and indeed unique one. Who's that? The profit. And we don't blame you all, because it's the most crucial issue, and there it will finally be judged where things will go, that's what the people will pull. You are trying to hide that at this stage, in this context of global competition, in order to achieve the expected profit, extortion for workers will be permanent and more and more savage. The wages paid by China, India, Bulgaria or whatever is of interest to every businessman or "we close the shop". You are trying to hide that when a company based on this competition does not have the anticipated profit and has made the decision to be removed from business activity, it makes the final ball - I am sorry for the expression - by sucking state and Euro-Union money that is part of the people, the money that you have not finally given for respirators, IFs and health staff, leaving our people out again exposed to similar events - which fortunately had the feeling that it had to be safeguarded - by also asking workers to grant rights and conquests, jobs, wages, losing other times indemnity and with serious consequences for insurance and pension rights. You hide that while there are mineral wealth, means of production, workers and the possibility to meet severely expanded people's needs in all sectors of the economy, in energy, in transport, in construction, in clothing, in nutrition, and in many thousands of people are unemployed because this disease of profits is not guaranteed. As far as oil in particular is concerned, the possibility of heating, moving, activating other industries in industry, our country's energy decommissioning disappears within the profit of the business group that acts there, but also depends on uncertain international developments that are crushing and the fairy tale of development on the basis of the export orientation. The profit has erased PPC, ELVO, LARCO, erased entire regions in Greece - western Macedonia, central Macedonia - major strategic enterprises. The Communist Party of Greece is addressed to the workers, the trade unions, the self-employed in the region, the local society. Calls on them to organise their struggle, not to adopt the business objectives, as their employer, its governments and its people are called upon to do. No assignment to labour rights will bring any better days. This has been tested. The profit immediately after any retreat will ask for even more of the lives of the workers themselves and their children. We invite them to see clearly that profit is what rots their lives, imprisons our country's inexhaustible productive potential in pockets, in the vaults of a handful of parasites in the economy, in business groups that have nothing to do with production. Finally, we call on them to fight for a development path that, if they remove the profit factor from the equation, now, today, can wake up and activate all branches of the economy, provide work for all with less hours, with less effort and production in products and services that will eliminate the word "necessary" for nutrition, shelter, health and education, for holidays, for free time and from vocabulary and from their lives. The Communist Party of Greece, in a firm light of this perspective, will be on the side of the workers, in the struggles for jobs, in collective labour agreements, in their employment rights that have emerged since your position, Minister, that they are not in your direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u114	Here, Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Mr Adonis Georgiadis, originally addressed by the timely question, said he was unreserved and to take the timely question to the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, something that happened. Nevertheless, he made the statement that he may not need any help. Minister, you have really disappointed me with your reply, which was totally vague, general and you have not made any commitment to the workers who are currently seeing you. They're two hundred fifty workers. There are contract workers. There are dozens of businesses in Kavala who see and wait for an answer from you. Unless you state that it is in your absence that you do not know about the proposals of "ENERGY" to your Ministry. I know that proposals have been made and discussions have been made, proposals with which ENERGYIAKI asks for financial support, for favourable licensing, for a redefinition of the contractual relationship with the Greek State. I believe that you have seen them seriously, you have judged them and some of them have been accepted, and some of them have not, because there is also a reduction in operating costs and a reduction in working hours. I want your opinion on this. I would like you to assure me that no worker will be fired, that no job will be lost, no one in the way it is under the present employment contract, that no worker will lose his employment rights, that the union will not lose its trade unions. I want you to make a clear statement today, because if we leave it after ten, twenty days, the workers are already in negotiation with the company and they need to know what the government intends to do. We need to know how to strengthen, yes or no, this company, so that the workers know how to move. I would like to ask for a straightforward and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Look, see: I "will" don't do business. We committed ourselves, at the moment, to the fact that, on the one hand, the look will continue uninterrupted production and on the other hand, that we are talking to the industry and we will talk to the workers to make decisions. Decisions have not been taken. I don't know what the people you're talking to at the Ministry have notified. There are proposals from the government. In any such situation it is not obliged that the State accepts the company's proposals. It will negotiate these proposals and we will announce once we have finished the negotiations. We are therefore committed to bend over the issue, and we are committed to keeping production, which is the main guarantee that jobs will continue. From there on, when we are ready and therefore when the negotiations with the company are over - because whatever solution has State aid points - we will let you know. Of course we will also inform you and the workers first and foremost of the company and all the Greek people, but we are committed to continuing uninterrupted production. That's the most important thing that she needs right now. We are also negotiating because there is a framework, which says measures, but State aid measures. This classic framework now has to give some new possibilities, because arrangements have been made to deal with the problems of the coronary. The framework for State aid, which has been passed by the European Union, gives us more flexibility and we will look at exploiting the flexibility that this framework gives us. Nevertheless, the framework also has time-consuming margins and specific mechanisms, which we need to consider in order to be able to do as much as possible. We're also talking to society. We have taken a number of wider measures to support the region of Kavala, which are very important for both workers and Príno and for the whole local society. We are not only stopping at this, that is to say, ensuring the uninterrupted operation of Kavala, but we have taken legislation, making ministerial decisions with which an unfinished deficit was from 2010 for the Cavala gas warehouse has now gone ahead. The HICP is recruited by a technical consultant for the development of a cost-benefit study and will proceed to the competitive process of exploiting the work of Kavala's underground gas warehouse very soon. Also continued from the ICTD to prepare for the maturation and development of the activities of the Port Cavalas Organization. Therefore, not only are we taking initiatives on Prinos, on the continuation of the activity in Prinos, but we are also taking initiatives that will help the entire local society, whether this is the port or the use of the underground gas warehouse in Kavala, which are linked and of great interest to the workers. So I think our policy is responsible. When there are details and when our negotiation with the company is over, we will of course inform the House. As far as workers are concerned, which is the most important, we are committed to keeping production open. In this way, we are also indirectly safeguarding workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. The minutes of the sittings of Thursday 30 January 2020, Friday 31 January 2020, Monday 3 February 2020, Tuesday 4 February 2020, Thursday 6 February 2020, Friday 7 February 2020 and Monday 10 February 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u119	The minutes of Thursday 30 January 2020, Friday 31 January 2020, Monday 3 February 2020, Tuesday 4 February 2020, Thursday 6 February 2020, Friday 7 February 2020 and Monday 10 February 2020 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-25-S1-commons.u120	With the consent of the House at 21.03 p.m., we shall have the sitting on Wednesday, May 27, 2020, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
