ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Christ Aries, many years ago, all the Members who for good reasons are not here today, the workers, the parliamentary authors and the children of the EPP who are taking care of us. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 94-2020 authorisation, the PLAC's minutes of Thursday, 9 April 2020, with regard to the vote on the whole vote, were confirmed by the Bureau:]] 1. The proposal by the President of the Greek Parliament "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary and Part II" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Repeal it from 20.3.20 P.M. ‘Association of measures to address the consequences of the COVID-19 spread risk, support for society and entrepreneurship and ensure the smooth functioning of the market and public administration’ (A'68) and other provisions’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u2	Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, State, State, State Secretary of State to the Prime Minister, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, tabled a draft law on 14.4.20: "State it from 30.3.20 A.D. ‘Counterfeit pandemic measures COVID -19 and other emergency provisions’ (A'75)’. It has already been referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Of the seven questions that were scheduled, the three will not be discussed. The first, with number 624/9-4-2020, topical question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Removal of the main residence protection and deduction of debtors from its protective framework", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, who will be in teleconference with the institutions. The fourth under number 626/13-4-2020 topical question by MP B1' North Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Measures to support the middle-class" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, which will be in teleconference with the institutions. The third, with number 630/21-4-2020, topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Inadmissible and unjustly discreet wage treatment against employees of businesses under Article 40 of Law 4440/16", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. So we start with the first cycle. Two questions will be raised by colleagues, Mr Synthetakis and Mr Kegeroglu, whom will always be answered by the Minister present, Mr Brutsis. The first to be discussed is the third with number 629/21-4-2020, a top-level question by the MP of Heraklion from the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Support measures for seasonal workers in tourism in the Region of Crete". Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President, for many years. Minister, in Crete you know that most of the workforce, but also in many areas of the country, works in the tourism sector and is now the main source of their survival. Nowadays, in pandemic conditions and with the government's restrictive measures, it is obvious that seasonal staff will not start work not only until the end date laid down by the sectoral convention and local collective agreements, but also with what this entails for their income, family planning, financial obligations, but also their insurance capacity for next year. Labour insecurity is dominating. Many hotel units are already saying they won't open the coming season. Large hotel groups refer to a shrinking of operating time or announce the limited operation of only some of their hotel units. The same is stated by seasonal food business, while large tourist agencies have either made their staff redundant or have declared a job suspension by September. Meanwhile, the measures announced by the government leave the seasonal workers and the elastics involved in tourism - foodstuffs leave them undisturbed, unprepared and unincome. The extension of the unemployment benefit for two months concerns only seasonal workers whose grant expired in the first three months of 2020. Many will not get either EUR 400 a month or because they had not completed the previous one on one hundred insurance days or because their subsidy ended in January. Meanwhile, thousands of tyre workers in the industry did not receive or receive the exceptional compensation of EUR 800. So on the basis of the above, we ask you, Minister: What measures does the government intend to take, so that: Firstly, according to Law 1346/1983, all seasonal and elastic working relationships should be re-entered no later than the final dates laid down by the respective collective labour agreements - up to 15 May in Chania, 20 May in Heraklion, 25 May in Rethymnon and Lassithi - whether or not they had applied for re-employment by the respective union. Secondly, there should be an unemployment allowance of EUR 600 by the end date of re-entry for all those who have worked in the past period, regardless of whether their unemployment has been subsidised to date or when the subsidy has expired. Thirdly, abolish the shameful measure of the four hundred-day unemployment subsidy days for the five-year period imposed on seasonal workers. Fourthly, redundancies and voluntary departures should be considered invalid as from 1 March that were forced to sign workers whose hotel or food business or tourist agency had started to operate and join the support mechanism, receive the compensation of EUR 800 until the businesses opened and receive the Easter allowance that they have not received. Fifthly, if hotels and food shops continue with a government decision to be suspended and after the end dates of re-entry, all seasonal and elastic workers must be employed to join the support mechanism and receive the compensation of EUR 800 until business opens up. Those undertakings which do not open up under their responsibility must be required to cover all workers with wages and insurance throughout the period which they would have to keep open from last year. Finally, ensure the insurance capacity and unemployment subsidy of all workers and their families for 2021, regardless of whether they supplement the insurance days required this year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor for the relative comfort of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy birthday to everyone and everyone. Jesus Christ Resurrection! Mr Synthraki, first of all, I would like to say that you are well aware of the sensitivity you show for your constituency, the area of your political reference to Crete. I, too, come from another constituency which is mainly tourist, the Cyclades Prefecture. I understand the problem, and I understand it. I have the same messages, the same anxiety and the hotel owners and the workers. I think it is understandable in this Chamber that what we are experiencing today is not something that has come to a logical conclusion on an internal issue concerning our country as the conduct of a specific economic policy. It is a matter that goes beyond our borders, the borders of Europe and touches the whole world. It is the pandemic which has dramatic repercussions on the whole of the world's economies. So here in Greece we have not escaped these consequences. We are experiencing them today, we understand them today, and we are experiencing the anxiety of tomorrow and the future, as no one can accurately identify the development of the disease and if there is a second wave in the autumn. All of this is a crucial question for both the economy and society and for all of us and for the political system. But we have to admit something. At least we in Greece are now a positive example for the whole world. We are in a country where, Mr Synergyakis, from the outset, the Prime Minister himself set health as a top priority, unlike other European countries - let us stay in Europe - and this priority set by our Prime Minister and government is the one that saved thousands of lives in Greece. And that is what all countries and Europe and the world have to say. We only stayed on the issues of health care priority? Oh, no. We have spread the protection net to the whole of society and the economy. In this context, in my dentext, I will analyse specifically what we have done for workers, what we are doing for businesses and how we see the tourism sector. You are right to say about your region, Crete, but I will talk to you more generally about the issue of the country and the prospects that open up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. Mr Colleagues, before I give you the floor to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the Ministry of Health's draft law: "Structuring it from 30.03.2020 BC. ‘Counterfeit pandemic measures COVID -19 and other emergency provisions’ (A'75)’. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u7	Mr President, I do not know what I should say to the Minister. His location was out of the question. Let me say that I, on behalf of the JRC, referred to questions, proposals and requests concerning workers in the tourism sector. Let me just say for the workers, not the hoteliers. And I'll explain why. In fact, the questions - requests, in fact, which I have put are the minimum and necessary measures to protect workers. These people deserve much more, because they have spit out blood under very unfavourable working conditions, employers' pressure and terrorism, circumvention of daily working time with many different working relationships and hunger wages. Similar proposals and requests like those I mentioned in my prototype have submitted since 9 April to you, the Prime Minister and other ministers forty-three sectoral and operational associations in the tourism sector. To date no answer has been received but no answer has been received. I'll testify to it in the Minutes for it to exist. In fact, April 28 has been declared a day of action by hundreds of unions and trade unions to highlight these acute problems they face. You know that tens of thousands who work as an extra, some time and with all kinds of working relationships are actually in the air. For the majority of them the next day may mean unemployment, wandering and impoverishment. The JRC considers that no one should be left unprotected and without income. No right should be abolished, such as the obligation of employers to reinstate the seasonal workers who worked the previous season. This account of employers in the sector about the destruction of tourism because of the pandemic, let me not convince anyone, and above all, does not convince the hotel staff and workers of food shops. Over the past 10 years, under conditions of a ten-year crisis, which the people have suffered and continue to suffer, they have earned inconceivable profits, without giving cents of profits to workers. Now again, under the pretext of pandemic, they don't want to lose a penny of sacks from the fatalist billions that they collected from the workers. Since the beginning of March they had lifted up earth and heaven, pushing the government to suspend their operations. Not only did they not pay a full salary in March, but you have also given them a simple full-handed support, with tax exemptions and suspension of all their obligations to a state and insurance funds. For the workers in the industry? Absolutely nothing. In fact, today, employers are demanding more from the state, and they are also calling for workers. Those who were not made redundant or changed their contract by rotating and hoping that they had escaped will return to work without knowing whether they will continue to work with full hours and wages or whether they will be faced with the government's 'gift' towards employers, the reduction in wages by 50%. They even demand that hotel owners work whenever it suits them and that workers live with poverty and unemployment benefits. All this, Minister, appears as an emergency, but in fact it is a rehearsal of germans, I would say, for the next day, for entrepreneurs. They are not enough in the warm state money the government gives them, tax exemptions, tax exemptions, suspension of wage payments, Easter gifts, etc., but they also ask for an extension of all of them for the next day. They even need to demand up to 100% state wage subsidies, that is to say, workers pay them themselves! They even ask the government to be more flexible in implementing the measure of suspension of a contract of employment so that it can be better adapted to the needs of companies. They also demand to be completed, for as long as the pandemic crisis lasts, with the possibility of flexible...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Synciergis, we have now read these in the papers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u9	of the workers. Therefore, Minister, we want you to answer the questions very specifically so that you can take immediate action here and now for these workers. For the people, the enemy is not only the epidemic that threatens his health. Of course it is that, but it is mostly the same system and its governments, who are endangering even his life, which is crushing the needs in the altar of profit. If you do not do that, then what they say 'whoever sows winds will reap storms at the end'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Synthraki, you've ruined your dentistry. That's a good start, on a reasonable basis. It's self-evident. But, in your second position, Mr Syntagakis, you have again been out of reality, not you, your party, with your ideas and opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u12	And you out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u13	I heard today in the Chamber, Mr Syntagakis, from you and the KKE - perhaps the only world originality - that it does not convince anyone that pandemic is a problem for tourism. Do you realize what you said? Did you realize what you said to Members' audience in front of Greek society? What does the JRC say? That pandemic is a pretext for tourism? Can't you see that hotels are empty? Who will knock on the door of our hotel owners to come to Greece with such a health problem? Can't you see that, Mr. Synchronous? Aren't you two talking there at the JRC? Don't you communicate with reality? In any case, I'm sorry for my style, but for some things that are self-evident, we need to be serious, and we need to talk about them beyond the party lines, the internals...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u14	The look is used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u15	We must be serious, Mr Syntagakis, and be pragmatic, pragmatic and responsible. And I'm explaining. You raised two issues, no civilian unprotected and no civilian without income. I answer: This is a priority for the New Democracy and we have done so. No civilian unprotected, no civilian without income. The modern social state, built in 2012-2014, with the new policies, with the minimum guaranteed income, with the child's subsidy, where we changed the entire social charter, which was then continued, now covers as a minimum security index of thousands who can remain unprotected because of the crisis. That remains. Social protection in Greece remains, it is very high, it is modern, it is in recent years and we must say that yes, this is a positive achievement of the political system. No Greeks are protected. Secondly, with regard to the measures we have taken. Are you questioning, Mr Synergy, that six hundred and sixty-six thousand workers in no time - within a minimum of time in the Ministry of Labour we run a crisis and legislated from scratch - took 800 euros? On electronic platforms in "ERGANI" we have built a new legislative environment. We protected six hundred and eighty-six thousand and we're not done here. Just yesterday we put a hundred and sixty thousand special charges. And the tourism you're talking about, of course, we're here. We're present. We do not just personalise and aim to see the tourism of Crete. Tourism is a wider issue. It will be dealt with as a whole by the government. We are already planning, and this will be about the whole territory, and the Dodecanese and the North Aegean and Halkidiki and the Cyclades and Crete and the Ionian Sea - it is self-evident - and the Peloponnese, that is, areas that we have the issue of tourism. Of course, we are concerned, but we are facing a very dramatic situation and reality. But we're getting ready. You see, the government is preparing a plan to reopen the economy. We're present. We will protect workers in tourism. We're already doing it. If you are questioning this, I tell you that we have given a hundred ninety-four thousand unemployment benefits for two months more. We have finally extended the unemployment benefit and the long-term unemployment benefit. We are doing everything we can, Mr Synthyakis, with sensitivity, with reflexes, with design, in an unprecedented environment, to support the economy, branches, every worker and tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u16	Zero, zero!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u17	Next is the second with number 628/21-4-2020. topical question by Hercules Iraklios of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Integration into support measures for those excluded and upgrading social tourism". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Happy birthday, Christ Anestis! Happy birthday to Georges and Georges, who are celebrating today!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u19	Of course, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u20	The Change Movement, in this problem the country faces, stands responsibly, supports the right decisions, judges and judges the wrong ones and presents at the same time proposals to improve measures in order to keep society up. Unfortunately, in the measures taken so far by the government, we have exceptions to a large part of the unemployed. About four hundred thousand unemployed are out of support. At least one hundred and ten thousand pensioners, not retired, are out of support. Professionals who have not joined measures, but have zeroed their jobs, are affected, but are not in support. You said before that you support tourism. In small and micro-enterprises active in tourist areas, both these and their employees are not included in the affected CARs, as is the typical example of the mini-markets. Instead of seeing how you will make use of European resources to support the unemployed, you have made mistaken choices, such as the programme that has dealt with society and publicity in the past few days. Of course, what is publicized is very different, especially in relation to responsibilities. You're not the master responsible for this failure, as you said. This programme was presented to the Prime Minister himself by the final agency of your Ministry, which was responsible for it. So the Prime Minister was fully aware of the program. He knew that, first of all, it is not from European resources, but from national resources. I'm filing the document. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your Ministry is the only one in Greece from the ministries of our country and also from Europe, which has three service, while all have one. All over Europe they have one. Of course, they were created on SYRIZA, and this terminal service, the committee was formed on SYRIZA and served on SYRIZA. You have just adopted it, and you have criticised the committee's creation as a opposition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So what have you been doing all these days? You slandered the institution of training in co-operation with SYRIZA. The institution of training has been slandered...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u21	Now that has nothing to do with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u22	Absolute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u23	I'm saying it because time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u24	My colleague spoke for four minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u25	I will let you continue, but then don't tell me that you haven't had time for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u26	The institution of training was then slandered. You are slandering at least four hundred centres of Lifelong Learning, as they are said, and not KEK, as you say again and again, and you leave to the unavoidable, and you and those who denounce the seven'sisters', the following two factors, which have become the deal of this service and, of course, the governmental factors. I have to say, therefore, that the investigation you said would be carried out in depth should probably be done at the highest level. On top it stinks the fish and not underneath, which you want to turn interest. Workers at lifelong learning centres hear that they are about drug dealers or something. You present them as crooks or thieves and something like that. Of course, they do not know the reality of children, but everyone else knows it. And the reality is, unfortunately, that, for the sake of two people, you have done one - you have said it - an action which is not at least appropriate to the situation in the country. You have declared yourself on Friday noon and the deadlines have expired on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Kegeroglu, I can't give you any continuous time...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u28	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, Minister, you have made a wrong choice, which you must correct. We will also do so from a European level, and we will see how it is possible for the Ministry of Labour to have three tasks. One was built for each Minister, another for Mrs Antonopoulou, another for Mrs Fotio, another for the State Secretary for the other. And you kept them and adopted them and continued. These are unauthorized things here. The resources from the programme must be made available to the unemployed, to the people who need them and not to the systems that would receive the many millions. Each lifelong learning centre at best would get 120,000, while each of the two factors with which the transaction existed would get from 18 million. From 18 million!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Kegeroglu, I can't give you any more time. Minister, I understand that in addition to the basic question you will answer you will also want to answer the incidental issue raised by Mr Kegeroglu. In that sense, you will also have tolerance from the Bureau to give your answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, many years! Jesus Christ Resurrection! And to all colleagues. Happy birthday to Georges and Georges! I take the floor of what Mr Kegeroglu said in his question. Mr. Kegeroglu, I will answer you - because you have asked things outside the procedure - in my dentistry. I must do so, and why you have put it, but also because I intended to explain to the House about all the things that have happened, to give light to reality and to the truth, and to see what the truth is and who are who they denounce and what they denounce. To see who had the courage and political courage to make decisions and who were those who had been experiencing a situation for four and a half years and for the same things they did not say anything and nowadays they are denouncing, effectively self-criticizing and displaying a large sample of hypocrisy. But that's what I'm going to say in my dentistry. I am now going to the issues of your question, Mr Kegeroglu, which I consider to be very important. Because that's what's interested in people, society, workers. The questions you ask are crucial, vital. They also relate to my reply to Mr Syntagakis just before, in the sense of the pandemic, the extraordinary economic situation. I would therefore like to reiterate that the government has not only moved quickly, with reflexes and sensitivity to the issue of the top priority of supporting the good of health for the protection of people's lives, which it has achieved and recognised worldwide and internationally, has moved at the same time as the same speed within a very short period of time and on the issues of social protection for workers and businesses. Because the view that 'we are not interested in business, but only in workers' is a false approach. How will jobs be maintained? If there are no businesses, the next day how will jobs be maintained to keep workers in their jobs? They are tragic, which are neither in line with reality nor responsible. Mr Kegeroglu, in any case I will repeat some of the elements that are crucial to the debate and which people are already experiencing. Six hundred thirty - eight thousand workers got 800 euros in record time. We have also achieved this with our speed and with the plan that we have organised from the outset in exceptional circumstances. One hundred and sixty-eight thousand long-term unemployed will get 400 euros. It is the last announcement of the Prime Minister, which is taking place. The OAED is now doing so. It's ending on 3 April. The only outstanding thing is to have the right IBAN for all these long-term unemployed. One hundred and ninety-four thousand unemployed were extended two months to their unemployment benefits. At the same time, part of the hundreds of sixty thousand special categories of workers, of those you put to your question, have already entered the coverage of 800 euros and will take place in the next very short time. Within this we come and give support to six hundred thousand free professionals, self-employed, individual businesses, fellow companies, inter-regulated companies, EIA, IKE, all the legal framework for up to twenty workers. It is already in the amendment to the Act of Legislation which is now being ratified in the House. So the state, the state, the government moved quickly, moved with sensitivity, cover as much of the Greek population as possible. Of course, we do not say and claim infallibility or perfection. In an emergency situation, when you're obligated to make decisions in no time, in things that are unspecified, they're extraordinary, of course you can change your decisions. The right is to be able to say that "I did one failure and I go one step further, but I dare change it, to recognize it". Mr Kegeroglu, I am in my dentistry to answer the question you raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are not talking about those who you have already taken action on. We are talking about those who have been excluded. And it has been excluded, as I have told you, a large number of unemployed, a large number of people who have not worked for a long time. In other words, those who did not receive an allowance from December to March are actually out of order. You put the long-term unemployed, but who? The hundred and fifty-five thousand that's up to two years old. The ones that are extra no. Because you're saying that because these are many years they've been considered as having a black job. You don't have any retired people who don't retire. You don't have a series of professionals. You said the workers got 800 euros. Good! Professionals haven't gotten them yet. And when I say professionals, I don't mean the scientists that made the roadblock. I'm talking about the businessmen, the people of the daily biopapila, who've been shut down by a government decision. Unfortunately, they haven't gotten them yet. As I have said, a number of small businesses and their employees are excluded. For example, from your measures - you have made a great deal of dormant for a special purpose licence - mothers who are professional or rural women, young children and who have no support. And, indeed, they should choose between the field and the house. If they stay at home, they have to work the field. If they go to the field, they write them why the kids carry together - he says - except for this, and we have fines in this case. We ask you to prepare the social tourism programme for the relaunching of the three programmes from now on, unifying the three or I do not know how much programmes you were going to be working for this year, extending the beneficiaries and, of course, joining and moving them this year. There's no way you're making a programme beneficiary, who's the financially weak on presumption, have money to move to a free accommodation. Look at this for the first time this year. These are proposals for the next day of reopening, but they need to be prepared from now instead of indulging in unnecessary, misguided and, in my view, not just epilepsy, but in the context of and at the limit of legality. Because legislative initiatives have exceptionally introduced procedures, which are used not only by your Ministry but also by the Ministry of Migration, which assigns five million to an economic operator without inviting an even limited number. This is a wider phenomenon, unfortunately, that exists. You were followed by some procedures, even though they were wrong. So I come to say this: this money from national resources - which you have presented as being from a European supposedly speaking - why are you not using it to cover these people and the proposals I have just said to you? So we have a programme, we have an effort that needs to be extended and it needs to be completed. For that reason, since you will, of course, answer the question I asked you was right. The Prime Minister was aware of the project? Do the three staff services need the Ministry of Labour? Can you tell us the work that the performance service produced in the previous period? Can you tell us why you are striving for a war in the slandering of lifelong learning centres, which have on the presumption been certified and have passed through the procedures, at the same time that you leave to the unpredictable ones with whom the understanding was conducted? The seven platforms belonging to two, plus three demolition - each one of them has two other, four platforms belong to two faces, and three are for demolition - they would take 36 million and all the CECs of the whole country that are doing the process of eighty thousand people would be taken from 120 thousand each. And you want to tell us that there has been a complication between you and the complainants, indirectly, that it is the workers who are responsible for lifelong learning centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u33	You've said it in protology too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u34	That's why - he says - you'll do in-depth research. The investigation must be carried out! And the European Commission must finally look into why three departments were created at the Ministry of Labour and what jobs they have been doing all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr Minister, instead of three, I will give you six minutes to answer the outside question as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much for giving me this freedom of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u37	After I left Mr. Kegeroglu and said bypass, won't I let you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u38	It's not that inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u39	I want to start by unwrapping the thread all along. I would like to answer the questions which have been raised and not only, but also to give answers to what today, slanderfully, the SYRIZA side highlights as a great scandal, as a great fiasco of the Ministry of Labour and the Government, and at the end of my position the Greek people will understand that things are completely different. That is what I am here today to explain. So I start from the beginning by saying what I said before, that we have faced and dealt with an extraordinary unique situation. At the Ministry of Labour, and I personally as Minister, had to decide in no time on matters that were never defined in political, economic or social terms. The issue that concerns the decisions for the unemployed, for the long term unemployed, to cover business, to support the unemployed on platforms that had to be supported and not to fall, to become printed, electronic submissions to get their money, has never been made and has never been involved in the past. And yet we did it, and the project succeeded. So within this policy, Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to say to you, because you have raised a glimpse of teletraining and teleworking, and I personally understand that the challenges of the future come in two areas where our pandemic brought them forward as something positive and necessary for the future. Teleworking and teletraining are now challenges that need to come to this year and face them, but with a new, modern legislative framework. And I would like to explain: I have been in place since the beginning, and we have said that the scientific support programme is divided into two parts, the EUR 600 programme of financial support and a teleworking programme. Question rhetoric to me: Do our scientists not have the adequacy of the cognitive object? Did they need a more cognitive subject? The answer is that we honor scientists. I'm saying exactly the same thing I was saying before. Our country's scientific potential, doctors, lawyers, engineers, accountants, economists, are at the highest level. But the concept of lifelong learning, Mr President, is a new element. The challenges of the future and new cognitive objects require lifelong learning, and for this reason for the future is teleworking, teleworking, or the issue of teletraining to be a matter which will be incorporated into future policies, because, for example, how can one who received a degree of economics 15 - 20 years ago be aware of the skills that relate to programmes for accounting or medical matters or to the issues of lawyers in which major issues arise? Modern public procurement contracts, for example, constitute, or not, new and necessary skills? Aren't these priorities for a lawyer and an engineer to know? Also, are training in the new European Regulations new things that one needs to know and did not get at his degree? Sure. We therefore have to put it as a policy for the future. We're going to this particular case now. Of course, there was no time, nor did I ever say that we claim perfect or infallible. Everything happened in no time. We moved on the basis of a programme to support scientists with an additional capacity to cultivate skills on specific objects. What did we follow? We followed within the minimum time to run the programme to pay all 600 euros, what we received from SYRIZA, the specific institutional framework of SYRIZA. That is what we received and on this whole process was initiated, which was absolutely transparent, and was absolutely consistent with the framework that we inherited and did not deviate to anything in terms of transparency. Everything was based on the 2019 framework that we inherited from SYRIZA. Of course, when you start something you're there, and the politician must have the responsibility of monitoring things and developments. We have seen that at least the quality of the programmes, the evaluation of which was not provided for by the legislation of SYRIZA, was not going well, it was not the level that we wanted in a tele-education of scientists. We wanted him to be at the height of the circumstances. And yesterday to the Ministry of Labour, I dared to say that this subject of teletraining, with these quality characteristics of teleworking, is being withdrawn. And we did it. This is called political bravery and honesty! Because, ladies and gentlemen, in politics, you must have the courage to say that when I legislate something, and I see that it is not going well or when I make a decision, political bravery is not to say selfishly, I made the decision, and I am going forward, but to weigh things up, see, pull it back and improve it. That is why the decision yesterday was that we were turning the systems all around and reassessing the legislative framework so that the challenges that concern both teleworking and the question of teleworking were recast to the quality of the programmes, which did not fulfil what we were asking for and not that we were against training and telecommunications. I would like to make two comments. No certified body was excluded. Three hundred ninety-nine actors were introduced as evaluated by the Ministry of Education. Not one was added and not one was removed. So it was just as the Ministry of Education gave us, they were certified bodies - I will now come to SYRIZA, tell you what SYRIZA did - and at the same time there was no objection to the procedure. It was our own political initiative to draw up a teletraining programme, while the EUR 600 programme of scientists continues to be regular. I now come to the criticisms, because in all this conciseness and the issues that the topicality of our decision has created, there has also been SYRIZA, who has conquered, Mr Kegeroglu, the KEKs. Did it demolish the CECs who? SYRIZA. SYRIZA has fragmented the CECs, the process and what we have done and the policy we have pursued. Who? SYRIZA. The greatest hypocrisy! Let's see what the reality is? We had political honesty, courage and braveness to say that they do not cover us the quality characteristics. SYRIZA criticised the KECs and the process. I repeat that we fully followed the instructions and practices that we inherited in 2019. We didn't have time to assess the process. There was no time. We made quick decisions. We had better cover the world and in the second year we had to make an evaluation of the legislative framework, but we will now do so. I would now like to read a few things to the honourable Members. SYRIZA, Mr President, has conquered the CEC - and so far - both the voucher and the process. For the procedure I said that it is absolutely the application of what we inherited. But I want to read to you some things that are interesting. Listen to: On 10 June 2019 unemployed training, period of SYRIZA, Ahchioglou - Haritsis. CEC implementing bodies, amounting to 48.900,000. Another: On 19 September 2016 retraining unemployed. Entities implementing CECs, amounting to 98,000. Haritsis - Ahchioglou, SYRIZA. Third indent: On November 15, 2018, training for unemployed people with CECs. Haritsis, Ahchioglou, SYRIZA. Enforcement bodies, CECs. Other case: On 15 November 2018, training programme. Haritsis, Ahchioglu, SYRIZA period. Creation of unemployed again with CECs. Height 17,570,000. Next indent: On 30 January 2019 - Recent training for unemployed. Enforcement body again with CECs. SYRIZA Period, Ahtsoglou, Haritsis. Height 49,586.529. Other case: On 20 November 2018, digital skills upgrade programme, unemployed training again, workers. Implementation by CEC. Amount of EUR 23,821,500. Mr President, there is one last of Mrs Ahchioglu's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u40	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I shall conclude with the conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u42	And the other list, please, because they may want my colleagues to have it, to testify to him for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u43	Other case: On 10 April 2019, signature Efi Ahtsoglou, unemployed training program, 30.996. Election! I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and in particular on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European Radical Alliance, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European Radical Alliance, the Group of the European Radical Alliance and the Group of the European I wonder: Was there a resignation by Minister of SYRIZA? Did the then Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras resign a SYRIZA Minister when the Secretary-General says about his Minister these things? And are you asking us today for the resignation we dared to see a matter and to change it and which we will correct? And I mentioned just now cases of state-of-the-art Cyriza co-operation with Cyriza! This is called 'political misery', gentlemen of SYRIZA, 'political hypocrisy'! You threw mud on the fan, which will come back to you after the evidence I presented today. Because you are obliged today to answer for all these tens of millions of CEC cooperation. Was it any more CEC back then? Mr President, the same KECs were vouchers today, which SYRIZA denounces.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u44	You're accusing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u45	Hypocrisy, shame and misery!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u46	For the seven...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u47	They're invited to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u48	You're a collusion, Mr. Brutsi!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u49	We thank both colleagues and the Minister. We move to the next group with two questions. The first is Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, and his second two is a doctor, Mr. Andreas Poula. We will begin with the first under number 623/9-4-2020 on the first cycle of the Parliamentary State of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Serious threat to public health since the continued mining activity at the mines of Kassandra Halkidiki". Mr Skourletis's timely question will be answered by Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, who is always present. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor. You will also have the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. But I'm afraid I'm gonna fall into a temptation. Listening a moment ago on the previous topical question, I thought that it should have been cancelled, because I would expect that Mr Brutsi would resign or the Prime Minister to assume his responsibilities and resign him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u51	Because I consider it reasonable to make a position on this, I put three minutes on the subject, then three minutes will be left and the time will be in place for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u53	Do we understand? Because I realized you're the only one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u54	Instead, today, with the eyes and the head down, apologise for this case of a patented predator, the breaking up of public money, are coming and accuseing who? And who do they indulge in? Those who with their relatives set up this case? Were the evidence that they saw the light of publicity in the press in the last few days? Oh, no. The problem is not training. Training existed in Greece, there are lifelong learning centres throughout Europe. It is a way of channelling and making use of some money from the ESRB. The subject is the particular program, which humiliated its creators, the people who inspired it, but it was also a mockery toward scientists. It's really sad what's going on. And it's not the only one. Maybe it's extreme. But we saw other extremes in these difficult conditions of our country's pandemic. We have seen wages double for IF beds, 11,000,000 being given for communication purposes in the occupants, to create another picture, a plating picture for the government, to buy information. All of this we've seen these days. We saw in private centres in Attica, which had nothing to do with the issues of dealing with the pandemic - precisely because it seems to be one of the government's owners - to have a contract with the state and to be paid for. That is all we have seen. And while, in fact, there was a timely decision by the government on the restrictive measures, taking advantage of all the experts' suggestions, but also of the experience of our neighbour Italy - and these measures have given us, they are obvious, they are accepted by everyone - from there and then, at the same time, we see huge gaps in the management of this crisis. Who may not be referring to the fact that there were inappropriate masks given to doctors, health workers, those in the front line? And that was avoided by the media, because it seems that 11,000,000 were enough to put this news aside. And that's not all. It's also the handshake made to the canals not to pay their tax obligations for the license they've obtained for their channel and go for the next year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] From there on, we hear of appointments in the health field, these extraordinary, temporary assignments. On a number of occasions we have asked where all of them went.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u55	I told you about Mr. Brutsi's point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u56	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u57	Now we're going to your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u58	'Cause the roadside contests were canceled for four thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Contozamanis will answer all of this. He's answered 10 times, after all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u60	Good. But let me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u61	I will close the time and put the question time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u63	You have no complaint. I put you three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u64	Why, then, these four thousand appointments of permanent staff in the health field, did an open competition never begin? We must now come to the specific issue of the timely question. A number of measures have recently been taken. Some undertakings, following a government decision, have been led to suspending their operations. That's right. But there is one business known to all of us as "ELDORANTO"... There's a problem with my microphone. I hope Parliament's microphones can handle what they don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u65	She didn't give her hand, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u66	...they can handle the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u67	Her hand was not put in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u68	In other words, the debate on the open, I hope, will withstand it. I think we have conquered this in the Greek Parliament. I continue: There is, then, the well-known activity of "GREENIK FRYS" in the mines of Halkidiki. These people, the miners, work hundreds of meters under the earth, in devastating conditions. It's the nature of their work. The ventilation is done through closed systems and the temperatures are very high, it is a perfect environment for the development of viruses and their expansion. So why is this company excluded from the suspension of operation? Have you thought that if of the thousands of six hundred workers one infected, at the same time, within a few hours, will everyone else be infected? Have you thought that these people actually live in all the villages in the wider area of northern Halkidiki? So what is this discriminatory treatment for this company? And it is not the first time that such a discriminatory approach exists for this company. You know very well - perhaps if you do not know, because you are in the Ministry of Health, that your colleagues, who are in other government sectors, are aware - that this company and when you were formerly government in 2014, had a scandalous privileged treatment. She had been charged with fines for environmental violations and did not pay them. This company has with the last decision of the Council of State - it has not really been discussed, all the others have seen the light of publicity - is violating its specific contractual obligations. Nevertheless, the work of the Cassandra mines continues. So, Minister, in your capacity as health adviser, besides a political scientist, do you really agree that the lives of the six hundred workers and, by extension, the wider region should be jeopardised? So why was this company excluded? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u69	Mr Contozamanis, start with answering your question and your dentistry, if you wish, to give some additional answers. I, who happen to preside over many times, have heard you answer and testify. But in any case, I will give you two more minutes to answer the others. So start with the question. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I would like to respond to the issues of topicality and, in particular, the pandemic of influenza. With regard to Mr Skourletis' question, I would like to make it clear - let me repeat this once again - that the measures taken by the government at this time of the pandemic were primarily aimed at protecting the health of the whole population, the health of every citizen. And in the light of health protection, we have moved, taken decisions, taken and will continue to take any decision needed to ensure the health of the population. It is true that the working environment of workers in the mines in Halkidiki is special. The State must ensure - and ensure - that workers, in particular their rights and working conditions, through the relevant bodies. In this case too, there are many co-legislative ministries, such as the Ministry of Labour on Health and Safety, the Ministry of the Environment on mining activities and the Ministry of the Environment as an audit mechanism. In no case will we jeopardise the health of any citizen or worker. As far as the health services are concerned, I should like to stress the following: on the basis of legal acts and joint ministerial decisions, all the necessary measures have been laid down to avoid the spread of the coronary and the negative consequences. These measures include the temporary suspension of professional activities and the imposition of restrictive preventive measures on other activities. The suspension of professional activities is a dynamic process. If there is a risk to public health, as long as there is a risk to workers, we are making such decisions. All the above measures are taken following the recommendation to the political leadership of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health against Coronary Disease in order to protect the population and have a common axis - as I said at the outset - to avoid the spread of the virus. As regards the preventive measures to be taken under the responsibility of the employer in each undertaking to avoid spreading the coronary, the Ministry of Public Health Directorate-General of the Ministry of Health has issued relevant directives. Recommendations concerning strict personal hygiene, observance of physical distances, use of personal protective equipment, hygiene of spaces, and necessary action in the event of a case shall be included in these Directives. In any case, however, mining mines are workplaces with special requirements as regards the health and safety of workers. That is why we are closely following the strict observance of the relevant legislation, the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and especially the mines, of the Ministry of the Environment. The proper application of all the rules, especially for these mining activities, is also monitored through the mechanisms of the mining inspections of the Ministry of the Environment, as I mentioned above. There is therefore no question in any case of a risk to the health of workers. If necessary, we shall definitely intervene in any event.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u72	Really, Minister, I am amazed. In other words, if you assume that this afternoon there is an interministerial meeting involving competent scientists, will you say that there is no risk to the health of workers in these circumstances in the mines of Halkidiki? This conclusion to make right now? Do you know that in Canada the same company shut down its functions, stopped the mines? In other words, for Canadian citizens it is harmful, that the mining process is dangerous, and here it is for the people of Halkidiki, is it not? Are these workers consumable? The employer's responsibility - why did you talk about the employer's responsibility - is it ultimately exclusive? Is he in his good mood? Why didn't you do this to the rest of the companies? So no business will be closed! Follow Johnson's example or other circumstances and so on. But now, that is why the government and especially the Greek people who took their lead in self-determination are positively credited. And don't misinterpret that self-discipline. It's not a white check, to do other things on the bulb, like what I mentioned before, like what we watched from Mr. Brutsi to say. Why, then, these exceptions? It wasn't at all, but your answer was not convincing at all. I think that as long as things remain as they are, as long as the mining process still exists, and these people are working under these conditions - in pandemic conditions - you assume a huge responsibility for whether something happens. And anyway, let's say something else. Did you ask the company, even in preventive terms - even though it does not answer that question - does it test these people? What's really going on with these tests? It has been so many weeks since these measures have been implemented. Why is there this lack of tests? Why is it that in Greece, on the basis of models in force in other countries, what are the cases and we do not currently have every power, with every measure to ensure the number of tests, where they are directed at specific populations? They are talking these hours about whether the schools will open. How are we gonna do that? Were there a supermarket test for the workers who have been melting their feet all the time? Were there for the cops? You're fucked in Skunk literally! And a wider area right now is really in a state of anxiety about what will happen. You left five days whole while you knew there was already one case to get to this large number of about fifty cases. So what's going on? Sign up the absence of your efforts to ensure that tests are carried out as a great deficit in dealing with this pandemic. Finally, I would like to say this: I sincerely think that even now - and I do not address it to you as a whole - I address it to the Government - if the right measure of removing this mockery, of this fiasco, of teletraining of scientists - after revelation, of course, that it was a predator case - will not be accompanied by the dismissal of the relevant minister, then the responsibilities you assume as a government are great and they are something that will accompany you in the next period. Unfortunately - as I said before - it is not the only offense you have done, but that was really huge. It was something that wasn't hidden. I am waiting, Minister, for you at least to present a point of order, which shows that at least on an individual level, you recognize the great responsibility you have as a government and I would like to hear your opinion, if you consider it appropriate that Mr Brutsis should, after what he has revealed, remain in his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u73	Mr Skourletis, before I give the floor to the Minister, I have to say that you are an old and experienced colleague. You challenge Mr. Kontozamanis, State Secretary for the Government, to answer whether or not he should resign or not he should resign. These are outside of all ethics. Mr Contozamanis, you will not answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u74	Clearly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u75	So go on to answer the question, plus two minutes that I will give you in addition, to answer the incidental health issues raised by Mr Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the mines are concerned, I repeat what I said before, that we will not endanger the health of any worker, no citizen. We are taking and we will take whatever measures it takes to protect the health of the population. As you mentioned what the company did abroad, there would obviously be a risk, but we also see other countries how they have managed the coronary crisis and we see in the international media the small Greece accept strong words as regards the management of the coronary. Why? I'll come to the health system that Mr. Skourlets set up. Why? Because we had a strategy, because we took measures early, because we succeeded and ensured that the health system was suited to materials. And because you're referring to materials, let me tell you again, look at images abroad where hospital workers wear trash bags. I don't think we've experienced these images here. This is where we had sufficient material. The supply, the smooth supply of the health system always continues with certified materials and always in the light of the protection of health and, of course, of the citizen who comes to health structures. You also referred to the cancellation of invitations to tender for the recruitment of doctors. No competition has been cancelled. Obviously, you refer to a pro-election notice when you were the government, which is already going on. The ranking tables are out and the crisis councils are progressing properly. You referred to recruitment. We have already exceeded three thousand subsidiary recruitments throughout the country. It's subsidiary staff. It is a process that SYRIZA, when it was a government, introduced and relates to covering positions, but not on a permanent basis. We have stressed that due to the need for special categories of personnel such as nursing staff, after the crisis this staff will remain in the health system in order to meet fixed and constant needs and to have permanent posts in the system. As with doctors, we will gradually transform these posts into permanent posts of curator in the National Health System. Because the fact is that in too short a time we have managed to do too much. We have succeeded and opened intensive care units, we have managed and ensured adequate and smooth supply of materials, we have managed and equipped with new equipment the National Health System. And all this creates a reserve for the next day, because we now have the experience and knowledge of how we can continue from now on. We managed to keep the National Health System operational, which during the pandemic period also served the incidents that had no coronary. Because you also referred to the lack of tests, there is no shortage of tests. There's full adequacy. Anyone who needs to run a test does it...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u77	You are obviously referring to molecular control. Now we're in a little trouble with the fast and slow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u78	I'm talking about molecular control. I am also referring to the strategy that we have followed up so far in terms of population control. We have shown that this strategy has succeeded. Again, we see what has happened in other countries. Of course, because you have referred, Mr President, to the rest of the tests, all of these antibody tests, which we will need, are under assessment. There is planning and strategy, so that at a time when the country will come out of the crisis, the economy will return to normal pace and economic activity at pre-crisis levels, we can test these population groups by priority that will return to activity and there is no cause for concern. Neither was there, nor is there a shortage of molecular tests and all the others are evaluated and there is a specific design. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u79	We reach the last question Mr. Poulas is patiently waiting for. It is the second under number 627/21-4-2020 top-level question of the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Management of donations for the National Health System (NSP)”. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor with a relative tolerance for you too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, many years first of all I wish you health. Happy birthday to the holidaymakers!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u81	You too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u82	I'll try to be in my time, but you'll give me the right to make a report.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u83	It's self-evident. Don't worry, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u84	I want to make a reference to the health bomb that has been created in my constituency in Argolida, and especially to the structure of migrants in Porto Heli. After the delay in the control of migrants by the EGE and since the region has been reduced by civil protection following the confirmation of the 50 cases, government failures and errors in the management of the crisis continue. I am saddened, Minister, by the fact that, with the intervention of MPs from the Second Electoral Region of New Democracy, assisted by Mayor Spetses, they claimed from the head of the Ministry of Health, and you accepted it, that the doctors of the Regional Medical Association of Spetses should not be made available to doctors who carry out newspapers at the Centre for Cranidian Health, fearing that the virus will be transferred to the island of Spetses. I note that the Regional Hospital of Spetses is a member of the Sixth Ministry of Health. Also, the commander of the sixth Ministry of Health demanded that two general doctors be sent from the Ljury Health Center, covering on-call the General Hospital of Nafplio and Argos, and everyone is doing eleven newspapers right now, at the Health Center of Kranidio, to serve the needs. Minister, that's not serious. You're doing in the crisis of ruffles for micro-political interests. Medicine has no borders. If you cannot, in other words, bring these six doctors, announced by Mr. Chardalias, to the Centre for the Health of Cranidium, this country will never be saved. I hope you'll fix it so I won't come back. Now, as far as my question is concerned, I think that all the wings recognise that the National Health System has risen to the level of circumstances. It has endured, despite all the monumental cuts that have been made and compared to other European countries we are much better. This offer of public health has triggered many entrepreneurs, shipowners, businesses, bodies to contribute to strengthening it with significant donations in money, in kind and in cutting-edge technology equipment. I'm trying to make a clipboard count to see how many millions these donations are. Today, we are given the opportunity to give the National Health System, to cover holes, to meet needs. And I ask: what is the amount that has so far been collected from donations to support the ESS and how has this been allocated, as well as the health material offered by donors? And secondly, what will ultimately be the use and disposal of donations, money and non-monetary, and how will transparency be ensured in their management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Poula. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, as far as the Branidium is concerned, let me say that the state mechanism has reacted to lightning, has implemented the protocols provided for and the health structures of the whole region are ready to meet the needs of the population. As far as your question is concerned, I would first like to thank you for it, because we are given the opportunity to present data from the sponsorships and donations of surnamed, small and large enterprises, bodies and agencies, who have been unselfishly offered - and this offer is touching, let me say - at the difficult moment for the country. This offer concerns all the citizens of this country, because all these donations, whether on equipment or in money, have the final recipient of the Greek citizen. And at this point once again, let me say a great deal of thanks to these donors, because they have really proved that they are the modern-day big benefactors who have helped to stand up to this crisis and have been an important pillar of support for the public health system, because without the resources with which the system has been fed, we could not achieve what we have achieved. With their contribution, with their contribution we have managed to go further than the National Health System. But I should like to thank, together with them, and all the health, administrative and other staff of the health services of the Ministry of Health and all the other competent state bodies involved, so that the country today stands up. On the substance, Mr Poula, in answer to your question, we have recorded four hundred ninety-six agencies. For the two hundred and fifty three of them, the procedure has been completed and the donation has been accepted. For the remaining two hundred forty-three, this procedure is under way and will be completed in the next two weeks. The estimated total value of donations up to and including 16 April is EUR 86 million. A donation of EUR 40 million has been granted, while the remaining 46 million are being processed. Let me remind you at this point of the procedures that are being followed that are described in a legislative act already ratified by the Greek Parliament. According to this act, the Minister for Health is the recipient of the requests for donation, such as the one who validates the acceptance. The donated personal protection items are handed over and undertaken for disposal by the Ministry of Health, and donations are allocated by decision of the Secretary-General and always in accordance with the priorities set by the Ministry of Health's political leadership following recommendations from the country's sanitary regions. It is true that we moved rapidly by recording all needs per hospital, per health centre, per health structure, per health region. We have set priorities for strengthening health staff by the necessary means of protection, for the full development and operation of intensive care units and care units, which we have equipped with the necessary medical equipment and which we have provided with the necessary personnel. In particular, for personal protective equipment and medical equipment, the decisions to accept donations are always made in accordance with the technical specifications laid down at a global and European level. In general, the procedures followed in managing all donations, I assure you, are fully transparent. You already know - a committee has been set up to monitor the implementation of financial donations of the special account set up by the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology, with well-known people running this committee, which will, in essence, recommend to the Minister for Health all the necessary measures, actions and actions to monitor the management and use of the funds coming from these financial donations. And of course, the Ministry of Health will present an action report on both these donations and how these donations have been exploited by the National Health System. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u87	Is that the committee you said chaired by the former President of the Council of State, Mr Rizzos?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u88	Yes, Mr. President. He's Mr. Rizzos, he's Mr. Kittas, dean of the University and Minister of Health...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u89	I ask, why is his name guaranteed? Mr Seligman has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Minister, on the first point I mentioned, you did not give me a convincing answer to what is going to happen with the doctors who are currently telling them to go inform at the Health Centre. You need to see this matter immediately. That's the first thing. The second issue concerns donations. You've taken two legislative acts. In one you talked about this committee you told us it would manage, but this committee will only refer to donations related to the IFET S.A.. And there is another act of legislation which is accepted and, in fact, has been involved in it, following the publications I have just seen, in order to manage these donations. Is that true? I am talking specifically about DELOITTE, a sworn accountant company. Is this company involved? This all seems a little blurred to me. To make things clear, because I have heard from you that the level of donations has reached 86 million. I think it is a very big amount. In the opinion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u91	Having accepted half of it to this day.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u92	Half to this day. I think it should be, for reasons of transparency and accountability, that this House should be the one to oversee all this donation control, and that is why we are in the line of convening the Committee on Social Affairs so that all these donations are accountable and transparent through the Committee on Social Affairs. Because we cannot remember any other donations for a number of different years, where this money went, which were exhausted and, more generally, that there was no transparency. We want transparency, and that is why we propose that the Committee on Social Affairs be convened and that this House should have the first say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u93	Before answering, Mr Contozamanis, I would like to say something because it goes without saying that you will not know that because it is the Rules of Procedure of the House. The House cannot play this role you have said. It can do another thing, the second half you said, namely the convening of the Committee on Social Affairs, where the Ministry will present and respond to what it needs in committee. But it cannot play the role of manager, control over the committee responsible. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We have repeatedly stressed that in terms of control and transparency we are open and we will in every way ensure the money of the Greek taxpayer and the money in the form of a donation that has been given or will be given in respect of the management of the pandemic. Of course, I told you in my prology that the Ministry of Health will carry out an account and a detailed presentation of both donations and of where these donations ended in money, equipment, etc. Mr. Poula, and your party has made an important donation to the National Health System because of the coronary. It makes sense for all Greek citizens to know the money that has been exploited and how. We have no reason, of course, to make this statement in the Committee on Social Affairs too, when the procedure is completed, because it is a large number of donations and we constantly have new donations, which we evaluate and exploit. I said, of course, that there would be an account and we will present it to the Committee on Social Affairs and, wherever necessary, to the Committee on Social Affairs. With regard to the involvement of a chartered accountant company, to which you referred, Mr Poula, in fact, a private company free of charge for the Greek State, helps us - in order to record - it is technical assistance, does not decide this company where donations are going - these donations, to gather all the necessary data and to communicate with all donors. I told you that we have at least four hundred ninety-six bodies and agencies that have already been offered to contribute to this effort. It makes sense to need a technical backwards support. And this support is provided free of charge by the company you referred to. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u95	Since we have you here and you are responsible for the hospitals, take a look, because I hear that there are delays in the implementation of the Parliament's donation for the fifty Beds of the "Save". Finally, was the place to be chosen? The House gave the money. Let's have the beds for meth in September, beat the wood if the krone wave comes back. I am now the President-in-Office of the Council to see this issue. You get it, don't you? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, we are progressing properly and we are within a timescale.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u97	These are written in the Minutes and I have the bad habit and I get them and I read them. Be careful, Mr. Contozamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u98	I'll repeat it if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u99	Okay, I trust Mr. Contozamanis, but I'll check it out. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-04-23-S1-commons.u100	With the agreement of the House at 11.37 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 24 April 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, on the agenda that has been distributed.
