ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would like to remind you that normally at 17.00 a.m. the plenary session must be given to the Standing Committee on Public Administration for the draft law, because it will be in an increased presence and we have said that it will be here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 6 May 2020 to the House. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 651/3-5-2020 by MP Larissa, New Democracy, Christou Kelles, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Reimbursement of farmers affected by bluetongue in 2014’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Ragosi, Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Ioannis Ragosi, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “Walling motorcyclist from the security of a guarded person and trying to hide the incident from the government”. 3. The Question No 645/28-4-2020 by the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr Georgios Kaminis Kaminis to the Minister of Development and Investment, on the subject: "Musics of use/sales price". 4. The Question No 652/4-5-2020 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Let the co-operation of governments - EU - industrialists at the expense of small vineyard growers and ammunition be stopped now." B. PERSONS Second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Andreas Poulas to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Aid to the Centre for Health of Skull". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. The draft law was discussed yesterday at the beginning of yesterday. Today's sitting will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as one section and the draft law will be passed in principle on articles, amendments and as a whole. The speaking time of the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and the speakers is eight minutes, in accordance with Rule 103 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Those are the typical ones. I don't think we need to talk. I would also like to inform you that two requests for roll-call vote have been tabled by the Communist Party and the Change Movement, which will take place at the end of the debate on the bill. The most likely is that they will be submitted by other parties. If it is another party that wants to make a roll-call vote - I do not mean in principle, because that is where one came from - which may have other articles, I would like to ask that this be done as soon as possible, in order to make it easier for the partners of the Management of the Legislative Work to be able to fix the bodies in good time, after I remind you that plenary is normally due to be delivered, to be fired, so that the Committee on Civil Liberties can meet on the bill of immigration policy. For roll-call vote, the proposal is to be done in the following three ways. The first is the one we had unanimously agreed that the electronic system, which will be opened for at least an hour, will be open for at least an hour so that Members can join and vote for whatever they want, either in principle or in the articles. The second supplementary proposal is many colleagues, at least from the New Democracy party, but from what I have heard from other parties, because it is not in Athens, it is in the region, as we said in the Conference of Presidents, to vote by letter. However, the letter of vote will be sent by the Members of each party to the Secretariat of the Group of the European People's Party. And the secretary of the parliamentary group, with his responsibility, will deliver them to Mrs Perifanou. As soon as possible, because you realize that this is an extra workload for all the children Mrs.Praphanou has at her service. The third proposal, which I have consulted with the President of Parliament, to make it easier for the rapporteurs and special speakers on the other articles - because fatally from the hundreds of thirty articles are in roll-call votes, the percentage is in the ordinary - is instead of sitting in Parliament for one - one article, in writing, each parliamentary group, as soon as possible, that is to say at 15.00'16.00" -16.00" - has also sent Mrs Veil that, for example, KINAL is voting for Article 1. In other words, what they are voting on from the articles and what they are not voting on to facilitate as much as possible the process and the fellow Members, given that the Chamber should sometime be delivered to the Committee on Civil Service. First of all, what I said is that we agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u2	No, Mr. President. I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u3	Yes, open your microphone, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, it is clear that our position is not only dependent on what you have introduced, but also on the kind of bill that we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u5	All right, that's all. I'm talking about the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u6	However, the problem begins, Mr President. Just a minute. We have said since the first day of the committee meeting that it is impossible for such a serious bill to enter a Parliament with limited composition. I therefore tell you that the view agreed in the Bureau of Parliament was that we will vote only on the bills concerning pandemic and the PPP. We strongly disagree that there should be a nominal procedure. What was discussed at the Conference of Presidents is likely the five sixty Members - had heard - but not a letter. I also think that there can be no vote with a list in advance because, quite simply, we do not have the legislative or the Minister's amendments either. How will we rapporteurs prepare for them if we do not even know them? I've asked him, and when he's ready, he'll answer me. He said it. So we expect the Minister to present all the proposals and amendments to articles. Because we have heard about Article 99, throughout Athens it is also heard about Article 92. In any case, however, our proposal is when the Minister announces that he withdraws the bill, then SYRIZA will be happy and we will be in a normal process. All the rest are infringements of the Rules of Procedure and to some extent also of the Constitution. Allow me, then, firstly, the Minister to take his responsibilities and then put us in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u7	First of all, let me remind you, Mr Famele, of the following things. It was not a decision of the Bureau. It was a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents and I have the Minutes here. Take a photo and give it to Mr. Famello to see it. It is therefore not the Bureau, it is a unanimous decision of the Conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u8	On other matters, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u9	Secondly, because I agree with you that you should know, in particular, about the other articles, but also about what you are going to do, before I entered the Chamber, I spoke to Mr Hatzidakis and he told me that he had sent the new legislative techniques to the Secretary of Government. Don't worry long before the 16:00 I told you you'll have the law-makers in your hands. So your second complaint - all right, well-meaningly you said - will not apply, because you will have it in your hands. I therefore think that I would also like your assent beyond your cork objection to not be the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u10	No, Mr President, we do not agree with this nominal one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u11	Okay, by a majority. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I was saying yesterday that you are doing a lot of things with the legal things, but you cannot do politics. It's not enough legal to be a politician and have political opinions. I would like to repeat this for the rapporteur of the Staff Regulations today. To tell you and this House that we have a lot of objections to the draft law and we have expressed them with Mr Arvanitides and our other speakers, I will also express them today. However, this does not mean that we must seek refuge in law. As my colleague raises the issue of a constitution, once again for the overall process, I have the professional idea if you want sensitivity - in the sense that I am a constitutionalist and legal - to say to him that we have been working for a long time, with their own assent, under conditions of forced operating restrictions that protect Parliament first of all, so popular sovereignty, the principle of legitimacy, the power to control the government and, on the other hand, we respect certain health rules. It is very contradictory that, on the one hand, they say to operate properly, as in the Rules of Procedure they want, at all levels and in the votes, and to gather against the Constitution. This is very contradictory if you combine it, Mr President, with what they say about schools. He needs a consistency. They're used to us in the tumbles, but don't even offend us. Because those who have agreed to operate under the conditions that we are currently working on, not exactly as the Rules of Procedure want, but by doing themselves the restrictions that are combined with the health checks, do not tell us that we accept the violation of popular sovereignty, that we accept the violation of the Constitution, that we accept the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Let us not think a little bleak about why they do not want to vote like this. We, I repeat and I close, have disagreements with the draft law. We have expressed them and will repress them. This is another agreement that we have made on how we are going to operate these days, this time, until we get out of this difficult pandemic situation, which has to do, Mr President, - and it is my last word - with how we are in the Chamber, how we are in the committees and how many we are in the committees, but also how we vote. We should vote. Should we not vote or vote should we violate health rules? I think that things are very clear for us and I have nothing in mind beyond the logic of science, seriousness and because we are at the National Representation, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution, but as the circumstances require us to observe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, may I have the floor for answering and clarifying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u16	No, you spoke, Mr. Famele. He's been set up. You won't answer. In your speech, answer him if you want. We won't start a process now. Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u17	Hot request, Mr President. Because we are all invoking democratic processes and this is very important at the end of the day and during this process, and because we are twelve - fourteen hours and fourteen - yesterday we left here last night, I understand after the morning show that was set up here yesterday, that we lost two and a half hours, without any substance. And then, with great courtesy, the officials of the House, the Bureau and begging Members, "speak less", were pushing them, no one spoke, to get the numbers out. Today we are starting again distortingly. It's over for the show again!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u18	Okay, it's not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u19	You will allow me, Mr President. Again for communication, without any substance, we will lose a couple of hours here and run. Let me clarify something. To disagree with the bill is something else. We have said so, we disagree, it is unacceptable, we justify why we disagree, we explain it. How we vote is something else. I mean, let's take a look at the substance. And a clarification, Mr President, from you. As far as the Members of the Attica are concerned, is their presence compulsory, or can they vote by written vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u20	Oh, no. It's the same for everyone. All right, Attica MPs have no particular problem, but the same applies to everyone. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really forgetting something very important. A decision has been taken by the Conference of Presidents, which was unanimous and concerned a Parliament which operates with security staff and security measures, to be clear, just - and that was the decision of the Conference of Presidents - about the PPPs and the emergency measures on the krone. Now the government comes and uses this decision. Parliament's consent to exceptional measures for the coronary is taken to legislate in practice with the House closed. So we, the Merra25, also call on the Bureau to respect the Rules of Procedure. This decision is over as soon as regular bills entered. The bill we're discussing isn't about the coronary. It's about regular issues. He was in the consultation before the coronary. We have, therefore, returned to the normal functioning of the House and the Rules of Procedure should normally apply. You want everything done with teleconferences? But be three hundred with teleconferencing. The House with 10% of the Delegation operating and legislating the government is unconstitutional and will be a reason why this bill will fall when it becomes law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u22	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u23	Okay. He said his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u24	He said we should go. Now he says we're completely open!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u25	Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u26	When we tabled the request for the roll-call vote, we also discussed the way this vote is to take place. We have no objection to the proposal for a letter of formal vote. We have no objections. We can express ourselves. However, as far as we are concerned, the list of articles and how we vote should first of all be made clear by the Minister for Parliament's amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u27	This will happen, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u28	I am not talking about technical or individual corrections. They don't change the substance. We know how to vote. I say this to make it clear about the parliamentary amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u29	It will happen, Mrs Manolakou, before the time. So, by a large majority, the Bureau's proposal has been approved. Mr Economou, who will obviously want to support the proposal, would ask him, in order not to waste time, to report on this matter in his main speech. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of rapporteurs and speakers, if you wish, in order to obtain time, to speak from your position, because, as you have seen, it takes one or two minutes to get the space fired. Two minutes for twenty-five speakers is one hour. That'll be profit in time. So please speak today, other than rapporteurs and speakers, to speak from your position. Mr. Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the debate, as it started in the committees, but it also took place yesterday, has shown how unfounded the claims that we were supposed to end very quickly, that we wanted to legislate in'spray, wipe, finish' procedures. Funny things, ladies and gentlemen! The opposite was the first time that the consultation on this bill has started since last October. We wanted this bill to be discussed in detail, we wanted to highlight every aspect of it. We wanted from the outset to show which distortions of the institutional framework we are facing, which gray zones are clarified, what changes we are bringing and which new horizons we are opening up. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the distortions I have spoken about to you are not vague. They are about environmental degradation and the quality of life of citizens. And these aren't in the sphere of fantasy. This is happening for years, it is happening today. It's the reality around us. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, if the Vice-Presidents have not understood what is happening in real life and in fact in the country. Unless only we, for example, feel that things in the country's Forestry and Forest Services do not work too much exemplaryly. Unless we only meet people who express their indignation about "go - come" in the services when they attempt to obtain environmental permits for the investments they are planning. We're the only ones who see this? We only understand that something is wrong there and that we are very behind what should happen in a European country like Greece? In order to avoid misunderstanding, I do not imply anything strange about either competence or competence, nor about the conscientiousness of public officials, of civil servants serving in these services. The problem is in the operation of the model, the problem is in the operation of the structures, of the system. And that is exactly what we come to deal with with the draft law we are tabling. For example, in environmental licensing, the problem is that it takes eight years to get a permit. And here we come to shorten this framework, the deadlines, with predictions and procedures that ensure both the speed of the process and the protection of the environment. What were we accused of? We were accused of privatising the licensing procedure. Why? Why are we putting a private evaluator, who will do, as is stated in the law, Chapter I, Articles 1 to 9, since we are talking about the articles? It will support the service in a number of activities, while the service itself will have the final and decisive role to play in the approval or rejection of the authorisation procedure. Now bring me an article from 1 to 9, proving the privatization of this process! What are we doing about forest maps, apart from dealing with all the things I described before, which we have tabled for the Minutes, for the one million agricultural acres which have problems, for the thousands of people who cannot get their subsidies and who are suffering for the courts, for the surrealists to buy the land from themselves, which the law obliges them today? We come and say that we will implement the decisions that the state itself has made. We were accused of taking out forests and deciding unrelated, Minister, on the objections. And the law says in Articles 48 to 50 that the committees will consist of a legal person, a forest-purpose, forestry engineer and an engineer specializing in topographical charts. To find me an article from Articles 48 to 50 that says we exclude foresters from these services. What do we do in the settlements? We are applying what the Council of State says. We define exactly what settlement is, and we anticipate a procedure whereby the Council of State will again adopt the Presidential Decree or not. For you to find me an article that says we have a fabric, an arbitrary legalization industry. I go further, for NATURA. Ladies and gentlemen, in the areas you are operating, with the people you are talking about, have you not been faced with problems of arbitrariness, with things that are unbelievable, such as being excluded in NATURA, farmers from organic farming programmes, as happened in the Sperm Valley in West Fthiotida, as is organic farming, for example, more harmful to the environment than conventional farming? Find me an article on what we say about NATURA, ladies and gentlemen, which represents a retreat to environmental protection in relation to what is currently in force - an article! - from the modus operandi which we are planning to do, from the clarity in which we define the uses of land and the activities and, in particular, the crucial role that the Council of State will have again, but also the road map for the preparation of the specific environmental studies it needs. I am going further, ladies and gentlemen, to the Protected Management Bodies. Are you involved in these areas satisfied with the work that has been produced to date, the useful work, the valuable work, the results that really scientists, volunteers have tried to deliver to local communities? Have you seen programs that incorporate value added in these areas? Haven't you detected weaknesses? Didn't you see that the model you alone created with the previous law did not manage to support it by your government, to serve properly, to fund properly? Find me an article - an article! - through this process, which represents a decline in the quality of production of projects, of management of these areas in relation to the process that has been in place so far. Find me an article that leaves the workers uncovered, which does not respect what they have done, which does not guarantee them funding, resources, access to European programmes so that they can do their job. I'm on my way to the waste capital. Here, ladies and gentlemen, if one really listened to your positions, one would think that we would take self-government to the outside and build a company for the management of garbage owned by Hatzidakis, Grafacos, the Members of the New Democracy and anyone else. But are these serious things? Isn't the district a self-government? The fact that we are creating structures in which both the region and the 1st degree of Government are involved to be more functional and effective and to face problems that are real that undermine the quality of life of people on the islands, should we not take this into account? And because a lot of heavy talk has been heard about the views of the mayors in the southern Aegean, for example, of poaching, and so on, are you not telling me, gentlemen, of counter-population, are the mayors opposed to the creation of the graduation FODs in the southern Aegean? Are they against it? So let me read from their letter: 'This is why we propose that there should be an explicit statement that the new regional FOODS of islands should take responsibility for 1-1-2021'. That is, the fight, the anti-constitutional, poaching, ignoring, illegality is for six months and less if one takes into account the procedure required to publish this. They do express a certain concern about the already existing projects. However, transitional provisions may be provided for regulating these things. From what I read to you, from the letter of the mayors you tabled for the Minutes - and you swinged the finger at us that we hide things, you told us about poaching, etc. - Do you realize they're against it? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to respect as much time as I can, but the bill is too great. With great ease, the opposition parties - I am sorry to say many of the bodies - are pouring heavy talk, say things that should, in my personal view, be weighed more: we are selling out the environment, we are environmental criminals, we are doing photographic arrangements! We still haven't seen a picture, a face! Let's see a face! So I would like to ask you: let me understand how a concept is made, which allows almost everything in protected areas, that it is environmentally friendly and a policy that comes to ban activities in absolute protection zones and sets order is a policy that is criminal for the environment. To tell me how it is possible for a policy which makes it difficult to penetrate clean forms of energy, that is, the RES, to be an environmentally friendly policy and a policy that creates the possibility of speeding up the penetration of clean forms of energy into our lives, to be a policy criminal for the environment? I should like to say here, Minister, that you have received an amendment from Members of the New Democracy that enables producers of photovoltaics - particularly the region - to fund the substations themselves in order to deal with the saturation problems of the network. They are problems that are faced with producers in too many counties of Greece and Fthiotida. It is an amendment tabled by Members of the New Democracy. To be fair, the rapporteur for KINAL has also asked, I think, Mr Arvanitides in his position. I would invite you to accept it. I continue with this: How is it possible, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a policy on the environment to be criminal, which incorporates into Greek legislation practices and choices that are the norm in countries that are a reference model when we talk about the environment, such as Austria, such as Norway, such as Finland, which allows mining, which also have uniform bodies for the protection of their regions, management areas, which the GMOs have an indefinite duration? I would also like to ask myself: How can it be a criminal policy that incorporates the practices of those countries that are reference standards in environmental history? The reality is, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an intrinsic weakness in the opposition political speech of this bill to substantiate with arguments and evidence from the bill. I invited you, read me articles from the bill, not from your brochures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Economou, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u32	I'll be there in two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u33	Please complete in half a minute, not two. You've already taken two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u34	Yeah, but I didn't talk before. All right, Mr President, I'll be brief. From here the bill read us articles to document the crimes you say, read us articles to substantiate the retreat to the environment you say, read us articles that justify the krone we have heard these two days and the committee. Read from here, however, not from each other’s mind or from the brochures of his ideological principles. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when a debate is taking place on the environment, there is often a huge bidding of who is more environmentally friendly than the other. In sensitivity to the environment and anguish about how to inherit our natural resources to the next generation and to our children there is no monopoly. And yet there is no way we can give this sensitivity anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Economou, you're embarrassing me. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u36	Do you know why? Because our anxiety and sensitivity is reflected in actions, it is reflected in plans, it is reflected in applied policy and not in words. It is reflected in the unbelievable intention, in the unbelievable choice of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government, our Parliamentary Group, to implement a policy which will open up new roads to environmental protection, a policy that will pass through the polluters to clean development policies. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Famelos has the floor. You will also have the relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Because they are on the articles, I think the rapporteurs and special speakers can offer because we will be on the articles. But I'm actually going to get into it so we don't waste time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the last two months we have had an agreement as a political world, a life agreement, which is to listen to science. Let's see what science says about this bill. We therefore have decisions of the Department of the Aegean Environment, the Department of the Environment of Thessaly, the Town and Spatial Planning Sector of Metsovio Polytechnics, the Agricultural University of Athens and the challenging of the University of the Aegean, calling for the withdrawal and remodeling of the bill. So the scientific world for the bill says it shouldn't be voted on today. And that, you know, is not just about environmental issues. There is also a question of procedure. But this is about the day before. Let's see the next day. What's questioned? The work and sustainability of societies including both ecosystems and social cohesion. What does the world community say? That we must also take care of public goods, but also of our relationship with biodiversity. And what's the bill doing? It does in a strange way precisely the two that the global political and scientific community has agreed on. It affects the public property of the country, affects the institutions of decisions, design, distribution of electricity, environmental protection and at the same time affects the protection of the biodiversity of the Greek environment, which - be careful! - here also represents a large proportion of GDP. Because in Greece, GDP is linked not only to the issues of the production base, but also to the environment that is a resource for development, not to mention the great impact these issues have on quality of life. Both are therefore affected by the bill, so that the Mitsotakis Government is the first in Europe to go to the new Europe Green Agreement. We call this officially and with numbers, and the non-governmental organisations have said so in all tones and out when the citizens have been mobilised throughout Greece, but also in the meetings that are taking place. They have also told the Minister. But I'm going to get some in the articles. The first issue is environmental licensing. There are serious problems. The Technical Chamber, Minister, has proved in writing to be contrary to the arrangements you have introduced. I would like to say that although the President has come and said his personal view in committee he has tabled a large text - please see it, Mr rapporteur - which gives rise to your proposals on environmental licensing. The Citizens' Counsel has also tabled a large text - yesterday, unfortunately, all of this, which is why we are reporting today - which at the same time presents data from the European Union that run counter to what you are saying. There are serious problems and you will allow me to mention them. The Citizens' Counselor for Article 1 says that the extension of time is not compatible with the rapid environmental and technological changes. The Council of State has also rejected the extension of time to environmental licensing and there is no scientific and legal basis for the retroactive effect of the provision, i.e. that such licences will be handed over, such as the Hellenic FRYS, which ends next year. Because you want names, let's talk about those names in public. At the same time, the Citizens' Counsel says that the presumptions of a positive opinion created by the failure of services to give opinions do not serve the protection of the environment or the protection of investment, investment safety. At the same time, the Citizens' Counselor says that the decoupling of the project organisation from the GDP project, which is envisaged, can raise issues regarding the allocation of environmental responsibility. All that's said by the Citizen's Counselor. What does the Technical Chamber say? That environmental approval decisions should be reviewed regularly in particular with regard to cumulative effects, taking into account the rapid development of technology. Especially in the case of projects with significant environmental implications, the state's technical consultant says that it should not be increased, but the duration of the environmental approval should be reduced. Of course, the Technical Chamber also makes a strong observation about the next chapter, that you have a serious problem and why the institution of the energy communities needs to be strengthened. Mr. Hatzidakis, you're probably downgrading this institution. There are, therefore, serious issues also concerning the infringement of the Archiving Convention on access to environmental information and European directives, especially because the Government does not apply the European directives and will 'press' this in the European Union. At the same time it cancels the operation of environmental services and manipulates them while there is a conflict of interest among private evaluators. In Chapter 2, which concerns the licensing of RES, there is an acceleration in the first stage, but beware of what all operators say: you do not have a specific spatial planning for RES, renewables. This will create accumulation in the next licensing stages, problems with ownership - because I told you to the committees that the citizen must look at the RAE map to see if an investor has installed on his plot - as well as several local conflicts. Projects over 150 MW are exempted in a photographic way - for 235 000 euros, if you are looking for a service of interest - energy communities are downgraded, which is what the big market players are asking for, but not the Technical Chamber. Aren't you gonna hear the scientists today? Of course you are banning pluralism and market competition, because you are not in favour of the free market, you are in favour of the oligopolists who speak only with your own party. Of course, the basic thing is that you are closing up environmental structures. You're sending out, dehydrated, and you've put on a loop. You are prosecuting workers to accuse us of post-service charges, and you lie to us that, in the rest of Europe, the duration is unlimited. I therefore have to submit the two reports to prove, Minister, that, unfortunately, you are lying about England and Italy, which demonstrates that, although the approval of environmental conditions is vague, there is a check on the authorisation of the service every four or six years, the authorisation of environmental conditions is being re-examined every five years, as is the case for Italy, where it is starting from five years - up to ten - in livestock units. Why are you lying to us? What do you want to hide? I shall put these before the debate. Let's go to the agencies now. And here, unfortunately, the Minister lied to us. He filed a document, posters, of the presidents who said they sought a central structure. This document, Minister, or I will assume that you have not read it, which I believe is a shame for the Minister not to have read it, or I think you have lied, which I think is also a shame on the Minister. This document, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, does not say anywhere that the Presidents want the institutions to be abolished and made a central structure. They say they want to strengthen the Biodiversity Department, which SYRIZA made in the Ministry's presidential decree, while at the same time there is a regional structure with actors in our region. In other words, they do not want the home of the National Axis Park, Mr Simopole, in Kerkin or in Lagada to go. Be careful, because that's what Mr. Hatzidakis will do from tomorrow, if that's the case. So there is a smuggling in the document of presidents, of which I would ask you to read the next pages. It won't hurt you to read. Don't just take notes from the back. What, though, is now being done at the Technical Chamber for Bodies? It says the Technical Chamber, not SYRIZA: "The OFYPEKA Council is central to international management or has a local character, and in the case of protected areas one would expect decentralisation of resources and responsibilities, because each region has its own needs." So the opposite of what Mr Hatzidakis does. What does it say, at the same time, about unification in units? That they will cover large areas - the Hatzidakis model - which is sure to have significant problems in managing NATURA, very long distance and at the same time the shrinking of twenty-four units will lead to difficulty in responding. So the Technical Chamber says your system won't work at the expense of the environment. The same does, of course, say about living, that heavy activities are not allowed in nature protection zones, which puts this incorrect scientific living, as well as that forest maps are weakened - it says the Technical Chamber - because forest land is declassified by vague documents which have no legal basis and content. And the Citizens' Counselor says, however, that the land uses that are being modified, that is, the MD59, are depriving the whole process of a critical stage. Citizens' attorney says that. In the forest map arrangements, the Citizens' Ombudsman says that they should not take into account the information documents, as the Council of State has already decided, as well as the fact that all relevant public documents to be incorporated under the provisions of the forestry law, rather than the proposed draft, do not change the forestry character and should be examined on the basis of the rules of forest science, as well as that they cannot be legalised as non-enforceededed building permits in Article 48, as well as that OPECE does not have jurisdiction or apply forestry legislation. The Citizens’ Counsel has found that there are significant mistakes in the farmers’ statements even as to the location of the parcel. And all this now comes to take care of Mr. Hatzidakis. It raises questions, of course, about the housing densities of the Citizens' Counsel. Where does he put matters? That there is no way of insulting the procedures, but it is true that there is no time to conclude, that there is no legal uncertainty, that there is not too much provision, that the provision is unclear and leaves them for the future, which was not in the draft law that we, Mr Hatzidakis, presented in Parliament. The bill brought by Mr. Hatzidakis absolves the forest maps, absolves the tariff and leaves the forest without control and without rules and the rural area, because there will be no one who will control these acts. It says so, and the Technical Chamber says so, and the Citizens' Counselor, and there is a procedure for updating a valid map and for including public acts into it, and there is no need to cancel those who have been ratified, because there has been no objection to them. Why do the ruleds get off the system? There are no objections to the ratifications to 44%. As far as the housing density is concerned, Mr Hatzidakis, it is wrong that the provision we had prepared for the Aegean and the grazing areas did not go first of all. It's wrong. All operators, as well as the Regional Municipal Association, have said so. It's wrong and the term and definition. He's curious, he's just a place of residence. I don't understand what's gonna happen to the rest of the buildings. Economics by region is wrong. We had said per municipality to solve the problem of settlements for there is a balance. The forest fine and the balance that we have also proposed is not mentioned. It is right to 'entry into the forest map', but the term 'economy' is wrong, because it was rejected by the CFC because it was a transitional provision that we said we would change it. Why do you reintroduce him as a term and content, as a description of buildings? There are serious legal errors. In any case, however, the forest balance is not clear if it is restored. As far as matters are concerned, I will only say that there is a 'black' in the management of bazettes with a responsible statement from the engineer. You do not solve it and not in areas without systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u39	It's solved with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u40	Leave 'blue' to projects that do not have a certificate of construction control and are the maintenance of the hotels. When a hotel is degraded, where are the balls going? No need for a certificate. We told you. Watch out. In energy efficiency there is a delay in our country's energy savings poorly. In the waste under Article 83, the design is delayed, with Article 84 being planned to waste lawfully and under Article 93 you are questioning the role of self-government. And to reply to my fellow Member: Mr Colleague, it is false for the Minister to say that he has the opinion of self-government, while the Regional Association of Municipalities has voted 'in favour'. You haven't told us what you're going to do to the Ionias and we want your MPs here. And while there was no decision of the ETUC in the southern Aegean, there was no smuggling of a document from the President of the ETF to be submitted as a decision of the ETF. Bring us the record and the number of decisions. The mayors - we must tell them: Tiolos, Symi, Patmos, Nisyros, Leros, Astypaleas, Agathonisios, Fologandros, Tinos, Syros, Sifnos, Serifos, Paros, Naxos, Milos, Kythnos, Kimolos, Kes, Antiparos, Amorgos - what are they telling you? Not to apply until 1 January 2021, but to all projects under the programming period and existing projects to remain in the LAGs and to apply from 1 January 2021 to projects under the next programming period. You are told very simply by the mayors: firstly, do not vote today and, secondly, they tell you at least our property, because you want to get the property of the municipalities and give it to an agency.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Femmelle, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u42	That's why there's a protest in Kefalonia and ithaca that's all closed down, uproar in Kefalonia and documents from everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Femmelle, hang up with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, - and I am closing down with this - there are serious issues also by the Citizens' Counselor for Waste Management and by the Technical Chamber that are tabled. But you will allow me, Mr President, to say a reason for the EDPS. It's the hydrocarbon company that went in with an amendment. Minister, please, be careful with me. There is a rough and dysfunctional amendment concerning the Hydrocarbon Management Company. Connect two incompatible objects, upstream and midstream, networks with searches. There is a serious problem of conflict of interest. I informed the State Secretary yesterday, and I have to say it in plenary. ELPEs that have research rights may not participate with the Infrastructures PPA and with the company that monitors and controls research rights. You cannot unify so unscrupulously, so sluggishly on a critical national issue, two procedures where there is a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u45	Finish it, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, let me say one more thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u47	Shut up, Mr. Felmele! I don't have any more time!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u48	You're right, I'm done. Even if the ELPEs go out with a problem in managing public property for asset assessment, we will have a problem with companies that have rights to research on hydrocarbons, because through international projects they will enter the share capital of the company that controls them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u49	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u50	Watch the conflict of interest! Expose to the Commission. You are playing with serious issues on the country's national progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Famelle, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u52	Finally, Mr President, I would like to end with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u53	You've said that four times I'm closing, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u54	I'm closed, Mr. President. We've proved that the bill has legal problems. But it also affects the national interest and the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u55	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u56	Mrs. Pipilis, and Mr. Economou had time. How I preside over it is my business.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u57	Our proposal is one: to withdraw the bill. You have to withdraw the bill because it has tragic arrangements for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u58	Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has chosen an easy field of confrontation with SYRIZA throughout the draft law debate. In both the Committees and the plenary we have watched a ping pong, an argument about who has done more damage to his environment policies, who has wanted to suit his own people, who has slipped further into energy, and who has done more to say. SYRIZA enclosed the conversation in procedurals and was enclaved. The New Democracy lured the conversation to the outdated pattern, to the rhetorical question 'Why were the other best?' and she is being lured into a 'green' - and if you allow me to speak in an introductory - 'absorbency' - that is to say, she only pursues green development policies and environmental policies. Please welcome, Minister, the 'green' development and the 'green' policies. You have feared, or at least you have not dared, Mr Minister, to look at political issues, on political options, priorities, development models, as I have asked you, but also on specific questions, such as the model for the development of renewable energy in Germany, since you so much like to invoke European examples. So I ask again why you do not want to follow the example of Germany, where 42% of the installed power in renewable energy belongs to households and farmers and only 5.4% belongs to the four major energy companies in the country. I also ask: Are you thinking of increasing the rate of reciprocity for local government, such as individual activity? Because we need to solve this once for local communities the recompense, when we place super-local functions that local communities consider to be a burden on them. And that is a standard rule which, in all such activities, must finally be laid down in our country. I also ask, with regard to the Ministerial Amendment, 281, about the transformation of the EDPS: How soon do you see, in the conditions of the world, that hydrocarbon extractions take place in Greece to justify doubling the wages in the company? We already know Prenos, we read that both Kavala and Drama and surrounding areas are struggling for developments. I will shortly - in the near future - put a question on this to tell us how you intend to deal with this issue. In the other Ministerial Amendment, 220, on the arrangements for environmental and spatial planning, I really do not understand. You've got it all mixed up, chestnuts, hunting hawks and the materials to be recycled from renewable energy stations and when their life cycle is closed. And that will be decided again by the Minister in his own decision again without any consultation. So we, which we conducted horses ten years ago, are honestly unable to monitor so much green growth and green wisdom in a ministerial office. And at some point we may have to make an account of the extent to which our own policy has contributed to the creation of a 'green' awareness among citizens, public services, but also in general public dialogue and whether, after ten years, your own policies will have contributed to the risk of our natural wealth and to the creation of oligopoly in the field of renewable energy sources. We will all be judged by our choices and the results we have brought back then and it will appear who has finally made substantial reforms in the country and in the field called 'energy and environment'. To come to the articles, ladies and gentlemen, as the Secretary of our parliamentary group said yesterday, we are requesting a roll-call vote on Articles 17, 20 and 24, in which we see the preference - in our view - of the Government to the large energy producers at the expense of the small and limited and the role of the Energy Regulatory Authority is neglected. I come with a second package of articles, in 24, 44, 46, 93 and 110, concerning the establishment of the new agency, OFEKA, with unreasonable - in our view - and without a draft merger of management bodies, the risk of NATURA regions, the failure to take into account the local specificity and insularity of areas and the 'free' for specific investigations into specific hydrocarbons extraction companies in areas belonging to public and OTA sectors, without any authorisation being required. Although in the last article I have to admit, in 110, you brought a legislative improvement last night, putting a time limit of one quarter for these investigations and giving the right to extend only with the consent of the land ownership operators. However, we feel that the provision remains problematic, as still remains problematic and several other provisions. In Article 93, for example, when we asked you to withdraw the bill from the first day, we do not understand why you are overlooking the critical parameter called "Isolity" for the islands of Lefkada, Kefalonia, Ithaca and you want to dismantle, especially in the last two islands, a successful local collection and waste management system since 1985. Why do you close your ears to the self-government rulers of the regions in Vonitsa, Kos, Lefkada and elsewhere, editorially abolishing the local FOODS and choosing the Attica model for all these regions? Even for Corfu, which you claim to solve the problems with this regulation, why is there this reaction from the local actors expressing anxiety and for the transitional period? Because somehow some things had been balanced. Is it the way the body manages that solves the problems? And other places where we had FODS why haven't we solved the problems? So the problem is not the bodies, it is the way and how to deal with it, because you are closing your ears to so many environmental organisations that are struggling for the future of the protected areas of NATURA. On the other hand, we welcome to our own philosophy how the area of renewable energy in Greece needs to be developed the New Democracy colleagues who tabled a number of amendments to the memorandum which we tabled on behalf of the Change Movement since 30 April in committee. Mr Economou has made the amendment and I agree with her. I am pleased that this issue is resolved through joint cooperation. In particular, issues such as promoting the implementation of substations are dealt with positively. But what about the reduction of the guarantees for energy communities? With the issues in Article 17, which emerged from the joint ministerial decision to retroactively change the conditions for connecting energy communities, whole regions in Serres face huge problems. Or the restoration of injustices in the agricultural photovoltaics? The increase in the environmental exemption limit for small photovoltaics, small wind turbines and small hydroelectric power plants? The photovoltaics on high productivity land? Finally, by proving once again that our Movement is exercising a responsible and constructive opposition, I am tabling two new proposals at this juncture because of the coronary health crisis and two proposals for tomorrow for the next period. One proposal, therefore, concerns the creation, Minister, of a special fund to prevent the energy crisis. Because of the crisis, some suppliers... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Minister, I would like your attention to this proposal. I am therefore talking about the creation of a special fund to prevent the energy crisis. In view of the crisis, some suppliers may face problems in meeting their obligations to the energy stock exchange and IPTO in good time. I therefore believe that a special fund should be set up by the government to cover the gap, binding, of course, on the future revenues of suppliers that are not repaid in time. This ensures the liquidity of the market, so the smooth operation of the electricity system is guaranteed without giving suppliers anything. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The second proposal concerns the need to create a "Security" programme in the ESS. The EHS buildings for both the economy and their adaptation must be financed, a new "Security" for the ESS. The aim is to improve the functioning of the existing facilities of the National Health System, improve internal conditions and save critical resources. And two proposals for the next day and I close, Mr President. We must commit ourselves to a 'green' social contract. As we gradually emerge from the epidemic's problems, from the quarantine, it is time to plan the next day. It is time to commit that the social and economic recovery plan for the post-COVID era will be based on a new green social contract and will have references to the European Union Green Agreement, the New Green Deal. This 'green' social contract with citizens means changing our productive model on the basis of a collaborative economy of sharing to tackle climate change, but also other future crises while ensuring that no one is left alone. And secondly - and I close - we must commit to energy democracy in practice. The basic pillar of the 'green' social contract is energy democracy, as I thoroughly developed yesterday. We are proposing to extend the energy production base and we support a model of support for small and medium-sized producers of renewable energy by speeding up licensing and environmental projects and investment, but without any reduction in the actual protection of the environment. Only in this way can our economy go ahead with the benefit of many and for a lot of time. This is sustainable development for all by adapting to climate change. We urge you once again, as a decade ago, to copy us for the good of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister now has the floor, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin today by referring to a sad anniversary, a crime without punishment. Just ten years later we honor the memory of Friday Zulia, Emeida Tsakalis and pregnant Aggeliki Papathanasopoulou. [[Applause]] They are the victims of Marfin, our innocent fellow citizens who have been deprived of their lives by blind violence and division, the molotovs of the hoodlers of a time that hurt Greece as a whole, politics, society, culture, our image abroad. In the next few days, Mr President, and faithful to a commitment I made in 2018, the state will honour the memory of the people who have been lost. A special plaque in the building of fire and hatred will fight oblivion and invite us to unity and democratic vigilance and keep the great lesson of that day alive with two words: 'Never'! Ladies and gentlemen, I come to this House today not to talk again about the pandemic, the battle with which it continues with results which are still extremely encouraging, but to defend an important bill and to respond to the criticism that the government has accepted, which I consider to be largely unjustified, because the new environmental provisions finally set clear rules for its protection. But, at the same time, they are proponents for a rapid and, above all, sustainable development, the one that will be called upon to alleviate the major economic problems of the next day and bring Greece back to a path forward and to Europe's pioneering. I would like to remind the House that, from my first speech as Prime Minister in the government's programming declarations, I had urgently stressed that the economic growth of the 21st century can only go hand in hand with the practical interest in protecting the environment. I said at the time that, unfortunately, our country is lagging behind in both these areas. Proof of the dozens of investments put into the nets of bureaucracy and legal uncertainty. This is the one side. The other side is the unregulated building and the garbage that still drowns us, joining us in the European Union's last positions in these critical indicators of environmental responsibility. The evidence here, unfortunately, is relentless. Our country is one of the first to overregulation by laws and prohibitions on environmental issues. At the same time, it is in the thirty-fifth place between forty countries in terms of the effectiveness of environmental policies, which states that the opponent of both development and environmental protection is often one and the same, fearful bureaucracy. So I repeat now that prosperity by an ecological mark is a central priority of this government. My personal position is that the future of our country is directly, linearly, entirely, with our ability to protect, but also to exploit our unique natural and cultural environment, because what we call'sustainable development' is the other side of a substantial social policy. It is not development if it is not for citizens and cannot be sustainable if it is not for the environment. All of this means that Greece, in particular under the current circumstances, has to step up its efforts to effectively manage the major climate change crisis. It is called upon to replace polluting and often costly energy sources with renewable sources that offer cheap and clean electricity. It is called upon to turn its waste materials and waste into wealth. It is called upon to define strict but also realistically the structure and finally to integrate the environment harmoniously into economic and social life, along with tourism and culture. These government options have obviously been formulated internationally, in our signing of the Paris Agreement, in our commitment to be consistent with the seventeen sustainable development objectives by 2030 set by the United Nations, while Greece was one of the first countries to support the European Union's ambitious plan for an economy without a negative climatic footprint in 2050. In our view, these policies are not just contractual obligations, but great opportunities, and they are already being exploited. We have achieved our targets for 2020 for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and we have set very ambitious targets for further penetration of renewable energy sources into the energy production mix by 2030. And the national energy and climate plan, prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, is in this direction. Of course, we are organizing the withdrawal of large lignite plants earlier and more methodically than states which are much stronger, such as Germany. I will come back to this later. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are discussing has been extensively analysed by our rapporteur, by our speakers, by the Minister, the relevant State Secretarys. I would like to reiterate its main directions in three areas: reforming the existing environmental licensing framework, in order to facilitate investment and, in particular, investments in renewable energy sources, modernising the management of the country's forests and protected areas, and, finally, to change the model for the treatment and exploitation of urban waste. And who doubts that these problems have been afflicting the country for decades? Who can deny that they are dramatic deficiencies for a modern European state? And who can disagree with the view that they require immediate - I repeat, immediate - solutions? I'm starting with the first one. The stages for examination and the times for issuing environmental licences are henceforth in line with European data, which means that unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles are removed. The applications will be approved and rejected within three to five months instead of six to eight years of the current duration. And if the public administration mechanisms are delayed, then the decisions will be taken by the Central Authorisation Council. It is obvious that the draft law is also intended to facilitate important investment projects that are currently ponding in various drawers. In order to promote many cases at the same time in licensing mechanisms, as we have done in other areas, private accredited rating agencies will also be able to participate. The same aim is to extend the validity of licences from ten to fifteen years. Their renewal becomes simpler and faster, and the same development logic governs the issue of licences, especially for the production of electricity from renewable sources. And I am trying to understand, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, whether there is, in principle, a substantial disagreement on the arrangements put forward by the government. And I would really like, when criticism is made in this Chamber, not to think that Greece is some particular thing within the European Charter. And I would be very open if the opposition were opposed to these regulations, to suggest to us which European countries with great environmental sensitivity are becoming something different from what the government is doing in terms of the portion of authorisations. I fear that you will not find many examples of this, and that is why I insist that what we do in the licensing section is not to make a reduction in our environmental conscience. You know, that's something my conscience doesn't allow me either. I would like to remind you that I have been dealing with environmental issues since 2004, since I was first elected a Member. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Therefore, I do not accept in any way the fact that some who have claimed for many decades that they have the monopoly of environmental sensitivity that they can criticise us and that they are more environmentally sensitive than others, just because they come from a certain ideological space, let alone when these people have ruled for four and a half years and have a specific project or, I would say, better not to work on these issues. But I will then return to the criticisms and objections of opposition. The second aim of the bill is the essential, overall protection of the natural environment. How? With the restructuring of all the bodies responsible for this task in order to be able to do so effectively, by clarifying the scheme in the NATURA regions, and of course with new single forest maps. Many environmental organisations have called for it - and I have discussed it in detail with the Minister for the Environment - to establish, as we do with the bill, a central environmental management body to which the diverse bodies, which have so far been supervised by the protected areas, will now be subject as organic units. I have visited too many of the protected areas of the country, almost all, where there are operators. I think the overall picture we have is that these management bodies, despite the good disposal of local societies and those who manage them, were ultimately not effective, they did not have the appropriate means or appropriate coordination, so that they could do their duty. That is why we are launching this important section with the creation of the Natural Environment and Climate Change Organization. It will now have overall surveillance of all the protected areas of the country. Now, with regard to the debate on the NATURA areas, on which there was a great deal of fuss, the tone has risen a great deal. Generally speaking, I think there was a great deal of tension in terms of counter-population, contrary to the climate of creative dialogue, which we want to cultivate in this House. It may be an tension, which has been artificially cultivated to hide the misery of arguments, but also the events of the previous government. So what are we doing in the NATURA regions? What is happening in all European countries. We divide them into areas that are different, four in this regard. Land uses and activities in them will be proportionate to the degree of protection and compatible with their specific nature, i.e. each region being individualised, based on its particular characteristics. The other is the case of the Olympus or the Samaria gorge, where an absolute protection regime must be in place, and it is very different that the situation in another zone, which can and should - not just - be welcome mild interventions so that it can become more evident in this way. The Ministry of the Environment will prepare for each site a special management plan in the form of a Presidential Decree. The Council of State is thus involved in the process. I do not think anyone in this Chamber can question their environmental sensitivity. The current opacity, therefore, of frequent local arbitrages, of fragmentation - sometimes working, in some areas, in some clearly not - now give their place in an overall institutional framework, which will determine what is permitted and what is prohibited in the protected zones. There has been a lot of discussion on the issue of oil mining, and if I understood well from the announcements from environmental organisations, which I have regularly discussed, this is an important disagreement, but it is a dispute at first sight: we want or do not want to have hydrocarbons extracts in the country, regardless of where they are to be made. Now I imagine that the criticism by SYRIZA of hydrocarbons mines in NATURA is at least hypocritical, because the map submitted by the Minister in Parliament says all of it: land which you have licensed or licensed was within NATURA areas. That's what you did! You did it on your signature. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I don't understand that kind of criticism. And I would like to remind you that something similar is being done in Germany, is being done in the Netherlands. Yes, there may also be an oil mining activity within protected areas. The question at first whether or not we should not make oil mining is an argument that I am prepared to discuss. Obviously, the government has its opinion. Environmental organisations may have another view. And you know this conversation may also be about shadows after all. Because with the oil prices where they are today, it is extremely questionable whether there is real business interest in new oil mining in our country. Alongside this one existing oil well in Prinos, which has been working for forty-five years, I would like to stress this - without any environmental burden on the region of Kavala, without an accident, at the moment, it is at risk simply because this investment and the existing production activity, with total depreciation, are no longer coming under the existing oil prices. It is therefore very likely that this whole debate too will be a debate that will be overcome by developments in the energy market itself. The bill now comes and puts a class in the blurred landscape of forest maps. The plans for areas excluded by this interesting invention on residential density will be re-established and the whole process will be reinitiated - and must be initiated - in the spirit of the Council of State, which, as you know, considered the arrangements of the previous government to be unconstitutional. It is a complex issue that has dealt with many governments in the past. I would like to believe that this time we will be able to give a definitive solution which is absolutely firm in its constitutional context. The third major axis of the bill now concerns plastic waste, both the reduction of volume at source and its subsequent management. From 1 January 2021, an environmental charge shall be imposed on each type of plastic bag, with the exception of biodegradable bags. At the same time, the procedures for urban waste, inert materials from construction, and urban waste are simplified. Citizens of many municipalities, particularly in eastern Attica who are still in trouble today, will now be able to connect without charge to the central drainage networks. House feathers will be channelled to sewers and not to separate housing sewerage facilities. Also, the materials from excavations and demolitions will cease to be deposited without control on plots, streams and pavements. And from now on for a building licence to be issued, it will be the manufacturer to have a cooperation contract with an approved system for alternative management of balls. Of course, there are many other provisions which either harmonise our institutional framework with European data or complement the central direction of green development. They have already spoken about these, the Minister and many Members of Parliament. So, what is this bill in two words? I would say that, firstly, it brings a step forward to the country in areas that I would characterize as third worlds. It puts an end to Greece's bolts, balls, landfills, which threaten the health of the people and cost millions in the public. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Secondly, it turns the country towards energy produced by air, sun, its waters. It is exempted from the harmful pollutants of lignite, as well as from the exact production of electricity. It transforms clean energy into an investment area that will bring jobs, local prosperity, income for both the state and local communities. Thirdly, the new regulations introduce a modern perspective for the protection of the Greek nature. It does not treat the environment as an exhibit that works independently of man, but turns it into a fertile parameter of our lives, the life of society that surrounds it and to an element of the wider area that belongs, safeguarding its beauty, but magnifying its productive potential. Ladies and gentlemen, I have seen that although this issue about the bill has been debated for months, the opposition has remembered it in recent days. When he talks about deficit consultation and when he supposedly destroyed the natural environment. I would therefore say that the consultation has been exhaustive. The institutions of the protected regions - I mention only one example - have been in open dialogue with the Ministry since last October, while environmental organisations have been meeting the Minister every two months. The bill itself had been put into public consultation since the end of February. It followed a new dialogue with environmental organisations. Many of their proposals for the management of NATURA were accepted by the Ministry. And as far as the "study" for the introduction of the bill is concerned, yes, there is a sense of urgency now. One hundred and seventy thousand of our fellow citizens have objected to forest maps. The relevant regulation of the SYRIZA has been abolished by the Council of State. Investors are currently waiting for six to eight years for an environmental licensing. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as our islands are concerned, I have heard reservations that the plan for the islands has not been launched since now but since 2021. Have you seen the situation today - and today we are talking about - on our islands? They are often drowned in the trash and the country is often drowned in the plastic. Now for yesterday's gathering, what to say! Not even a minimum distance of safety could you keep and then get upset because the citizens reasonably wonder what would happen if the management of this unprecedented health crisis happened to you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look, the government never had, has, and will intend to limit the right of public assembly, of protest in other words. This is an integral part of our democracy. But I demand that parties and trade unions who are organising demonstrations at this time have the elementary equilibrium, that they respect the suggestions of experts, and that this disgraceful picture, which was presented yesterday outside the House, is not presented! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is also wrong for those who are demonstrating their demands. Because instead of dealing with the core of your arguments, we have dealt with the sight of each other being side by side because they could not even keep the minimum distances of safety. He took my eye, of course, and the concentration poster. He again denounced an ecological coup, new - supposedly - memorandum arrangements. You remembered the memos too! I don't know what to say! Well, I can't answer corrupt slogans. After all, they have responded to the work of the previous government, the unprecedented paralysis of all the issue concerning urban waste management, frozen investments in renewable energy sources. Here could really be the expression: "No more coal" please, gentlemen of Officer Opposition. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have drawn up the main lines of our environmental policy. The most important is summarised in the phrase 'full degreasement' by 2028. I have not yet understood, frankly, what the post of Officer Opposition is on this issue. And I would like to have a clear answer today. I was hoping that Mr Tsipras would be here to have a real debate on these issues. If he chooses to come then, I would like the Head of SYRIZA to have a clear answer to this flagship initiative of the Greek Government, which has received international recognition and has been openly supported by all environmental organisations. And we must present the whole of the views of environmental organisations on government policy, not just one aspect of it. We are in a hurry to implement this policy in order to achieve as much funding as possible from the European transition fund for Western Macedonia and the Peloponnese. Rehabilitation from the polluter lignite will become the foundation for a new life in these two regions with a new productive model with many jobs and greater prospects. Yes, we want to speed up the country's development with a green sign. That is why we are seeking more investment in the renewable energy sector, but also in a more healthy and human environment, with protected areas that will no longer be abandoned in their luck, as with cities that are sustainable and clean without arbitrary. I would remind you that we are the government that finally imposed the demolition of two floors at the hotel near the Acropolis, when others stayed for years simply observers. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, growth is running and the environment cannot wait for us. It must be sustainable and not consumable. It has been a stable position for decades, no matter which government the country had. Since September 2011 - perhaps Mr Loverdos remembers - as rapporteur at the time of the opposition to a draft law on building, I stressed that we need a direct change in the process of issuing building permits, which accumulates bureaucracy and gives rise to corruption. We had then courageously supported the government's initiative at that time. But I also asked for a new environmental licensing regime - in 2011 - because the current one, I said at the time, was heavy and ineffective, leading to poor environmental protection. That's what I told the House in 2011. Two months later I used the same words in the Committee on the Environment. And with a view to sustainable development, I insisted on saying that it is necessary to make RES projects easier. What I was saying at the time, I am saying today with the difference that I now have the opportunity to do things. And that's what we're doing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The conversion of the green economy into a steam-driven development machine is therefore a continuous and consistent choice. He was asking for a bill which is intended precisely by this philosophy to be passed in the middle of a health crisis. But be careful, and let me close with this comment. Like the coronary pandemic, the environmental crisis is global. Both of these crises do not recognise borders or countries or social classes. Both are urging us to coordinate globally, in global cooperation, but also in a new conception of life itself, and both these crises concern its nature and human function in the end. In other words, both the Krone crisis and the climate change crisis are calling on us to think differently and to act differently. And it is certain that the next day of the pandemic, all countries will strive to make up for their losses, struggling to attract new resources and new investments. So it is urgent that Greece is also present on this front with a person of potential and attractive to the investments. We must speed up the growth rates by bridging them with the needs of the environment. Only then will the country prove that the more effective it has proved in the war against the virus as it can be in its economy. And that is exactly what the development dimension of the bill we are debating serves. At the same time, all of us are invited to take positive advantage of the lessons of this recent experience. Consider, for example, Minister, how much reduction in traffic has highlighted the importance of clean atmosphere. See what happens in our marine ecosystem now that fishing has been significantly reduced for a few months. In essence, we are called upon to redefine the human measure within its environment. If something has shown this coronary crisis, it is that we can finally change behaviours and that this must be done when this change of behaviour is subject to the general good. That is exactly what we need to face the global challenge of climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with the conviction that the most difficult times are behind us. The most ambitious objectives can be seen in front of us. Heritage of battle with pandemic has so far been our collective success. Our weapons of confidence, unity, but also our conviction of progress. An important step for the next day is today's bill, and the next bill is the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning for Spatial Planning and Use of Land, which will be tabled within the next few months in Parliament. I urge you, therefore, to vote, with the optimism I borrow from an old motto of the Renewable Left, the essence of which, however, I fear, only our party can dare to act: 'Yes, a better world is possible'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u62	I wanted to ask you for this: the Prime Minister started his speech reminding us of the tragic event, a decade ago, of the absolutely inappropriate and dramatic death of three young people, one of them, on Stadium Street, in Marfin. It reminded us of this calamity. As a minimum tribute to the memory of this calamity, let it be what will enter the wall of the Stadium Street, 'never anymore'. This "remembranced pain", the memory of calamity, must be symbolically honored by the House as well. I would like to ask you to keep a minute of silence in memory of these three young people, Angelica Papathanasopoulou, Empress Chakali and Friday Julia. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity. Mr Famelos has been asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. You have the floor for eight minutes, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, I will only use three because I understand that there are rapporteurs. I just want to make a comment, because Mr. Janakopoulos has a matter and I will replace him as a parliamentary representative. I would like to place myself here and say to the Prime Minister that his presence was very useful and at the same time very revealing. Of course, I'd say it was quite scary. Why, what did the Prime Minister say? He said that the country is suffering from overregulation and as far as I know from the grammar in over-regulation we are doing deregulation. He also said that the country needed growth and that's why he couldn't wait. So, ladies and gentlemen, we conclude that the model of development of the New Democracy, which cannot wait and has its opponents over-regulation, is the 'environmental crime', said by GREENPEACE and WWF that it is being done. Be careful, the 'GREENPEACE' and WWF officially filed this term: 'environmental crime' last week. So in overregulation and the needs of Mr Mitsotakis' development, let me, the government chooses to carry out an environmental crime. And how did Mr. Mitsotakis describe this and Mr. Hatzidakis implement it? I think it's important that Mr. Mitsotakis himself has come to put his seal on environmental crime today. I do not underestimate it, Mr Hatzidakis, but it also takes over the burden to be a Prime Minister who is characterised by a black old policy instead of a new green political agenda. So what does he want? We must not have services to monitor, give opinions and speed up development, protect biodiversity and do not have a public infrastructure in basic goods. It gave us a special impression that he did not find a reason to say about the sale of IPTO, as well as about the conflict of interest in the Hydrocarbon Company. Not a single reason for national issues. Or you didn't give it to him or the government wants to underestimate that he's plucking out pandemics of a public good. Of course, he also had some contradictions, which I would like to make. ‘It became a mess on SYRIZA’. Yes, sir. "Nothing happened, a chaos." Then why did he proudly say that the country is catching the greenhouse gas emissions targets for 2020? Mr. Secretary, when you were following it from the Commission, is it possible in the ten months to get the targets for 2020? Oh, no. Investments in renewable energy sources, the separation of energy sectors, the competitive processes of RES, gave Greece the right with the achievements of the SYRIZA government to catch the targets in air emissions and in the proportion of RES. And we need to double, we will agree on that. So there wasn't any mess. Under memorial conditions the country caught targets, including disinvestment. I don't underestimate her. We don't lie, or make news, as Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Hatzidakis do. We're telling the truth. But we didn't hear anything about it. On the contrary, we heard it was the citizens who were mobilised. I will agree with you that there must be maximum health protection rules. And at the fairs outside of Maximos there should be, Prime Minister, we say. For everyone, the rules and consistency apply. We first said the scientists would follow the whole political community. But this must also be done in the environment. We are also in favour of the parity of all. However, we cannot hear false information from the Prime Minister's mouth when we submitted documents that what you said about environmental licensing does not apply in Europe, and when the Citizens' Counselor and the Technical Chamber deposited official documents which disprove the Prime Minister, as well as environmental licensing, and the procedure for ratifying the forest maps you are trying to do and for the operators of the regions managed, as well as for the cancellation and degradation of the rule of law. It is strange, but the over-regulation that you fear, leads you - as you have said - to the degradation of the rule of law. The Prime Minister confirmed this today. It's dangerous. If you think that the next day has nothing to do with the objectives of sustainable development, with the strengthening of biodiversity, with the control and protection of public goods, then you are in complete contrast with the position of the UN Secretary-General. It is a pity for Greece that the Prime Minister of Greece takes this option, which is unequal, unregulated and unjust for society. So we have a black old deal by the Prime Minister and not a new green deal. Of course, it has been mentioned - and I think it is the wrong information you gave him - that your Government took the initiative on the buildings in the Acropolis. Why are you lying like that? The suspension of the work in the Acropolis took place by Minister Stathakis' decision, in this building, and the choice you are driving today results from decisions by the Council of State and from a working group jointly chosen by our own government. And obviously, they must continue all this. But why didn't you say all the other decisions of the Council of State that violates this bill and the Prime Minister is coming today to defend it? Because, on the basis of what the Citizens' Counsel has given us, the bill renders and violates many decisions of the Council of State and hides them both in terms of the locations, in terms of land use and in terms of the information forms of forest maps and everything else. Because if you want to talk about demolitions that have taken place against the political system, I would like to remind you of a name: rope. How many years did you expect to demolish the taverns? The SYRIZA government did so with limited resources and difficulty. How many months did you expect to renew the arbitrary contest in Mandra and East Attica? Ten months, with two questions of ours. Finally, you did well and you started what we started. We do not say 'no' to them, but do not be proud of it. In many "surround", as in sending environmental auditors and inspectors to the Kyparissikos, while your own executives question the protection status. This is the reality of how you respect protected areas. So do not use as candy, Prime Minister, the Council of State, because today you will vote - if we finally vote - for the violation of the decisions of the Council of State. On this rule of democracy, someone has to take a stand. So SYRIZA didn't remember the environment today. SYRIZA created a law for protected areas, to which the workers and the Scientific Committee "Natural 2000" and the bodies that you did not just see, but you didn't even want to call in the House. That is our difference, and that is what you are trying to degrade, because you are disturbed by the locality of decisions. You are attempting with the seal by Mr Mitsotakis an ecological coup, yes, which has commemorative arrangements, of course, and bring the memorandum through the back door, because there was no paralysis. There was an attempt to launch a consistent ecological path for Greece as well, a path of sustainable development. So this model of development you see, this whole environmental community characterises it as an environmental crime. But it's not development. Unfortunately, it is not even ambitious, it is too late for European policies. Therefore, please withdraw the bill, as all environmental organisations ask and as is an urgent constitutional need. I cannot imagine that there will be a government that will vote today, when we arrived in 2020, for example the cancellation of forest maps. You do not dare and you cannot go on with simple reforms that we have started in bankruptcy difficulties because of your own policy. So don't let other windows to Greece's black past, the environmental one. We're going together to a green future. Withdraw the bill. Be consistent, at least with the reasons, because your works do not show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u65	Minister, would you like the KINAAL Parliamentary Representative to speak to both of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u66	I don't have anything to say about KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u67	We have to talk about it. I have something to say about the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u68	It may then be in your answer, although it is not environmentally correct, to apply the "with one, two birds".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, we are still in the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u70	Parliamentary representatives have been asked for the floor. The Prime Minister spoke. Mr. Loverdos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I wonder why, after a reaction from a member of the Government and the Prime Minister, the floor is given for more than two minutes. I request the floor for two minutes, because that is what the Rules of Procedure say. Mr President, I was Minister of Labour on 5 May when the three young people who worked at the Marfin bank were murdered. I want to mention their names, Angeliki Papathanasopoulou, Emesis Chakalis and Friday, Julia. The offices of the Ministry of Labour are just beyond the building of murderous energy. My officers immediately informed me that they have set fire to a building and after a while we learned that there is a dead man and then the rest sad. Since then, every year, Mr President, I have gone and left a flower or my cross at the scene of the crime. It's been ten years. The killers are moving free and comfortable. Their deed, however, was tragic, terrible, at least to me personally has shocked me as a man. I remember that on that day the demonstration actually had me, which as Minister of Labour I had the working draft law and the insurance draft law. In the House, I have repeatedly said that there are many times references to the dead arising from political mobilisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u72	Bullshit.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u73	But never, ever, to a man who is deceived of actions by the brawls, says my colleague, that I should collect it more and say it by people who are not politically involved in the center and generally around it. As if life were to be of double value, Mr President. More for some and less for some. I applauded the Prime Minister today, because this is the first time that this House has made such an important reference to these dead. I would say that others, Parliamentary representatives and parties, have taken the floor and put them in place. In conclusion, we are either in favour of democratic freedoms or we are in favour of respecting the value of man, human life for all people, but regardless of political positions and regardless of political opinions, or we are hypocritical and we are crying, because we are playing political games. Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u74	Thank you. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u75	For the record, just to say that I endorse the last thing Mr. Lovers said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, would you like to place yourself on the position of Prime Minister? Your two-minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u78	Yes, Mr. President. First of all, on the issue of the three dead in Marfin. It is not the big words that honours this sacrifice. What had to be done, both from the previous and the current government, is to reveal the guilty and reveal the role of the provocators in the face of a popular movement that had been on the streets and claimed rights in his life and work. The provocators played a slandering role in this direction with these three dead. One of the prisoners. Secondly, who is an enemy to the environment is clean. It's the hunt of profit the enemy of the environment. This destroys or wants to use it to ensure its profitability - there is no second debate - and not the coexistence of man with the environment. Because this coexistence of man and the environment lasts for too many centuries. But capitalism, which has reached its limit, is too short. In this respect, therefore, the European Union's policy is nothing but environmental protection. In addition, the 'green economy', which, under the pretext of a climate, wants to give way to overcompensated funds, is not about protecting the environment. After all, as was done by the policy of liberating electricity, where, in essence, the RES used were just to get private people into electricity production, resulting in an extremely expensive current for the people and at the same time, the degradation of the environment by planting wind parks on every mountain, on every mountainous and mountainous slope, by creating problems in the management of water streams, so with flooding phenomena and soon we will also have the cemeteries of the RES, photovoltaics and wind turbines. In this respect, therefore, it is not the form, it is the question of who is using for what purpose. After all, you, as a government, and you and the previous ones, are destroying forms that prove to develop and help the environment, such as the use of water resources. Why? Because it doesn't interest the capitalists. So the term is very clear. The Prime Minister has chosen the easy opponent, the SYRIZA government and SYRIZA's policy, who has followed the same policy that the government is currently pursuing, both in terms of energy and in terms of protected areas, in terms of NATURA, and in terms of forest maps as a tool, as imposed by the OECD and the World Bank on facilitating investments rather than forest protection. It is, of course, hypocrisy, both the Seminar and the Government today, to invoke public health on waste. Here I would remind you that HYTATA Race is a work of both of you and the fact that today a health bomb is still working on the foundations of Attica, is a work of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Today the New Democracy through the arbitrary placement of the SPAs promotes and seeks mosquitos to move on to the new crime, to the crime of the Graphic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u79	I have given the floor to the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, who was waiting for the parliamentary representatives. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Velopoulos will speak. Mr Boukokokore, you will speak as a parliamentary representative after Mr Velopoulos. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, first I would like to say that I remembered that day ten years ago. I was sitting in the'mountains' of the New Democracy when we learned this shocking news. I think we are all joining today with the Prime Minister's voice condemning all these crimes, whether they be right-wing or left-wing, because violence is not colourless. We must all find out in Greece and condemn it without asterisks and footnotes, as we sometimes do in this place. I come to the remarks about the environmental bill. I would like to say to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman that for us the opposite word in the'regulatory' is not the deregulation to which he referred, but a word that disturbs SYRIZA and is the'reformation'. This bill is an environmental reform. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second thing I want to say to my dear colleagues in SYRIZA is that they have two standards. When GREENPEACE and WWF condemn what New Democracy does, it is an environmental crime. When WWF condemned Mr. Stathakis and Mr. Famello to the Ministry of the Environment in November 2018 for hydrocarbons extractions in NATURA, it was simply tricky. This is your understanding of political things. The third thing I would like to say is that this party that has the world record on lies - obviously guaranteed with a trademark patent, all that remains is to go to an international organisation - even now it distorts my own speech and the speech of the Prime Minister. Mr Famelos says: "Mr. Hatzidakis has taken Mr. Mitsotakis and said that in other European countries we have an unlimited length of time." Of course, he has said so, and I have said so, and I have spoken to the committee in greater detail, and I have said the examples of the countries. I referred to the Netherlands, Spain, Italy and so on, and said that some of them have an unlimited duration - go to the committee's minutes - with the possibility of reviewing them. He says Mr Famelos: "Here Mr. Hadjidakis brings in a bill that has no possibility of revising it." Read the laws, Mr. Famele. The law says we're going in 15 years. Article 2(9) of Law 4014/2011: ‘In the event that the findings of regular and extraordinary inspections referred to in Article 20 of this Regulation are found to be serious problems of environmental degradation or if environmental impacts not provided for by an ICM or GDP are observed, the competent environmental authority shall impose additional environmental conditions or amend the originals’. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is precisely what is happening in other European countries. How much more fanaticism, how much political despair on the part of SYRIZA? And I keep going. Because I wonder how so much lies have been condensed within eight minutes. It's a unique ability! I am continuing, ladies and gentlemen. Forest maps. We have a problem with the forest maps, because, as they have produced them, there are a hundred seventy thousand objections throughout Greece. And you all know that in the province. Because those as they did, people who had their demands from Eleftherios Venizelos and Constantine Karamanlis lost them. Because those as they compiled the maps officially led these people to go back to purchase their property. Shame on you! An unprecedented political energy that they are proud of! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm going on, because it's really unique about people's ability. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Acropolis, a few days ago when the Central Council of Antiquities, the CSCE, decided to break down the two floors of the hotel, who was Minister? According to my information, Minister for Culture in those days was a lady named Lina Mendoni. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Famelos wanted to convince us that he was himself, because he now decided to the Central Council. Now he decides. And in a few days' time when the draft presidential decree will be submitted to fall to the Acropolis in the Council of State, I do not imagine SYRIZA again saying that the Minister is called Stathakis and Deputy Minister Famelos, because as far as we all know, the Deputy Minister will again be called Dimitris Economou and Minister Costis Hatzidakis! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm on it. Mr Famelos went through the Kyparissikos - and he did well - a presidential decree establishing various uses, for which he now condemns us, in NATURA areas. And I'm saying he did well. We too, in order to protect Mr Famelos's presidential decree, are sending environmental inspectors on our own initiatives, who find infringements. And SYRIZA - we do not want to say 'bravo' - is criticising even for that reason that we are trying to implement the provisions of the Presidential Decree in NATURA areas. I'm closing with two remarks, ladies and gentlemen. First, I ask SYRIZA not to say the words "speakings" again. or "fake news", because he's like the killer coming back to the crime scene. It reminds who have told most lies of a recommendation from the Greek state and this party has a name and is called SYRIZA. You are capable of failing your arguments to tell me that I am called George Vassilakopoulos and not Kostis Hadjidakis, if that helps you. That's where you've arrived, because so many lies in so little time I really haven't heard. Secondly, I should like to say something else because you have this great sensitivity - it is assumed - for ecology and green policy. If we see the mountains of Miss Duro's garbage, if we see the dead fish in Coronia, if we see the terrible images we saw in the summer at Tritsi Park, if we see the other environmental crime in Gold, south of Lassithi, I think we can rightly tell you that the only ones who are entitled to invoke the green in SYRIZA are the Panathinaeans of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u81	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has now spoken. Mr. Velopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say something simple. I was disturbed today by the Prime Minister with what he did. It was very annoying. He's here, he's seen, and he's gone! What for? Democracy has dialogue as a basic condition. If he's a monologue, we can talk about it. Let everyone come and say his own here and go. He came, said his own, and he left. These indicate no mood of fugitives - to God! - but I have come to say this, I will do this, and if you want it. It is not democratic to say that "I don't care what Tsipras says to come and talk." He did the very simple thing. He came, spoke and caused Mr. Tsipras to answer. Will he answer where Mr. Tsipras is? On an empty chair? Will he talk to who? When you throw away the glove, you sit down to fight, or I can say you're fugitively fugitive and six, and most importantly - I'll say it straight away - you do it because you don't have any arguments. Of course, I have to say "go" to him for his decision with Marfin. I imagine no one in here has any other view. Not for the plaque she said, 'cause you don't put on board. That's an anaesthetic plaque. After the President has often corrected me, he can also correct the Prime Minister. Other plates, other ‘magnetic’ and other ‘refractory plates’. The "make-up" was said by the former, Mr. Simitis. Let's actually go. But I find it hypocritical, why are we crying about Marfin and the wronged dead, but not to find out who the people's killers have been to date? This is a hypocrisy of the state, not of the New Democracy, but of the state as a whole, of all parties, if we cannot find the morals - because there are - and natural authors, because there are photographic documentaries from the region, who were there, the well-known people who instigate something Pakistanis, something Afghans. It's the end - end - para-state left. Not the left, but the para-state left, so as not to misinterpret what I say, the so-called extra-parliamentary Left. The same physiognostics, which each time are co-existent with motifs. It is hypocritical, then, that a favoured state cannot find out who murdered these people because it was murder. Strong killers! They flew molotovs to burn them. That's good, so good, and memory. But to keep these people's souls quiet, tell the Prime Minister who is absent that he must move earth and heaven and himself to find the killers. It's not working that way. For communication, because the day is like this, to change the agenda, that's not the job. You're wrong. We're well aware of communication. We know her very well. Now we're going to the bill. I would ask the Minister, who, of course, does not listen to us anyway. He'll do his thing. It makes sense. Either we talk or we don't talk when the other guy doesn't have his ears and he doesn't want to hear, he's never gonna hear. It's okay. Let's actually go. Because the Prime Minister asked whether we have a problem or objection to the philosophy of the bill and because he told us that, at first, the bill is good, he talks about green growth and green horses, I will say to him: The biggest historical crimes in the world were committed with good intentions. Another intention is the result. It's not the same thing because you start doing something, but the way you do it is dangerous to society itself. Why am I saying that? The Greek Prime Minister spoke to us about the environment, while the Greek state has never checked the company "Hellenic FRYSOS". Not once! Here's your results, gentlemen. That's what you're doing. You've been running for a year. See who the "ELELANDS CRYS" is. I'll show it to you if some people get sensitized. We are talking about 'green' growth and 'green' horses. Look at this. This is the "ELLENIKI FRYSOS", this company that actually has corporate responsibility and pays thousands of euros on radios and televisions, from what I hear, so that journalists don't talk. Here's more photos. Do you like these? It is the ‘ELLENIC FRAMEWORK’. The answer of the Minister of New Democracy himself to a question from me - because you are sensitive some here, you have ecological sensitivity - was that 'we have never been in control'. Never! To a company that's dirty in the environment. Never! There's the Minister's answer. I'll present it to the Minutes in a little while. And you're telling me about Mr. Hatzidakis' environmental bill, which accepts that the Ministry does not carry out any checks on pollution? Are we serious? Also, you close - says - bodies of protected local areas. You are undermining the environmental licensing procedure. Now listen to what they're doing. With an e-mail that an investor will send, such as the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" - investment is this - they will give him permission. Then we don't need you, Minister. If the investor with an e-mail communicates his decision to do something and there is no control mechanism, we do not need any ministers or civil servants or bodies. What do you put "writing and pharisas" on me in your ministries? Therefore, the "ELELANDS FRAMEWORK" for waste management and water management, which had to obtain a special permit, will now suffice to make it known. It's a disgrace! It's a crime! And it is not just the “ELELANDS CRYSOS”. They are many such companies that have devastated the environment. You know, a man without an environment can't exist. If there's no environment, there's no human being. Understood! All on the altar of money. I won't say you're serving the companies to make some money. I'm not that bad-ass man to say that some might help companies because it's a lot of money. But I'll say something else. You're making a criminal mistake! You are entitled to control the licenses on private individuals. I mean, Christ and Holy Mary! It's what I'm telling you. Not even ministers need it then. To privatize the state, not to pay either the Minister or the Members of Parliament, to be private and to make jobs 'fascist'. Are you serious? Do you cancel the forest maps? What right? But it's unconstitutional. How do you cancel them? Remove all the agricultural land without knowing where the forest is. You'll tell me it's a big problem for decades. I'm sorry, I mean. Twenty years you've ruled, twenty more than five of them from there. And because you didn't do anything then, because the tooth hurts, you cut your head. But are these reasonable? So, in the woods, can we build hotels? I won't say about the Ionian Islands. But I'll tell you, you're honest servants, you're on the line of GPS, on the well-known Papandreou line. 'Green development' and stories of Halima. In essence, you consider the airplane to be an investment with the wind turbines. Aeroplanes are concerned, gentlemen. They don't have jobs. The windmills don't even have one job. They put a guard there. In twenty years' time, because it's happening with rare earth and it's toxic waste, I'll see where you'll bury all this, because the life date of the wind turbines, my Minister, is thirty years. You and I may not exist. But your child, who's young, and my child will exist. That's the truth. Rare earths become wind turbines, gentlemen. Look for a little what a rare cat means. It's toxic waste. Where are you gonna throw them in 30 years? Are we sending them to Africa? Look for a bit at how wind turbines are made and which country is making them. Your friends, the Germans, they're making them! It saves and well we must become the storeroom of German products produced, of Mercedes, of AUDI, of wind turbines, of milk and of meat of their own. What are us? It's self-evident. Now listen to crimes. You know, lying has short feet, and SYRIZA came here as a curator of environmental worship. They're all economists, they're the generation of hippies, they're left living with the environment together. Scouries, Volos, burns, Delphi mines, PPC - NOME, - sold cheaper than PPC - sold DESFA, airport in Kastelli Crete. SYRIZA's works. Go to Delphi. Do you know what "Deserts" means, guys? SYRIZA doesn't like this story much. With history and tradition, they have no special relationships. The mines went to Delphi underneath and devastated the area. To the Delphis! On the backbone of the earth! Do we understand that? In other words, we do not respect anything as a state, as a country, as people, as Greeks, or as Europeans if you wish, because some in here first are Europeans and then Greeks. We are first Greeks and then Europeans, because even the word Europe is Greek. You can't go from omega to alpha. You're going from alpha to omega. It's all backwards. Now, because the leftists are also sensitive to illegal immigrants, have you seen this, gentlemen of the Left and the False Left and the Liberal New Democracy? Moria's a tiga in the plastic trash. Tons of plastic garbage. Look at it! Nobody's talking. The sensitivity of NGOs and economists only stops where money starts. That's where it stops. Let me tell you what the Thessaloniki Department of Tourism has said about "ELLENIKIKI CHRYSOS", Minister. I'll testify to her for the record for this study. Study by the Agriculture Department of the Committee on the Environment. If you see what it says about "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK", you will understand what I mean. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Together, of course, it is the Minister's answer, Mr Minister, which says that you have never been in control of the "Hellenic Chrysos". Never, no one! Let's go to the economy now. Ladies and gentlemen, have you read what is happening to unemployment? I'll tell you now. Balance of workflows. Because here you've done everything so well, everything's fine, everything we've achieved. Yes, we did. Not many people died. A hundred and fifty died. They won't die a hundred and fifty, they'll die a hundred sixty. And if one were dead, for me that's unpleasant, I repeat. We did it. Bulgaria has succeeded, and Romania has succeeded, and Hungary has succeeded. Many countries have succeeded. We're ten. We're not first in the world. However, you have succeeded. We succeeded because the Greeks heard you. And if we succeeded, as you say, on the basis of the strict measures taken by the New Democracy - I will say that if I heard it, because I disagree with both of you - you should arrest all PAME and all yesterday who held illegal meetings, because you have arrested the priest, you have arrested the Christian, but you dare not go there. That's where you're scared. It's the Buddha for you. It is the 'hero totem'. All these anarchists, bombers, motor-vehicles, are the 'hero totem', not to hurt them. After you're arresting the Christian, you'll arrest the chaste or the atheist. Understood? Don't make fun of the Greek people! Let's actually go. One hundred and three thousand recruitments in March - please - and let the Minister hear it, against a hundred forty-four thousand nine hundred five redundancies. March. Reduction of recruitment of 49% in seasonals. Decrease of withdrawals minimal. Loss of jobs in March by some twenty-two thousand. Let's go to the other one. At only one point we have had an increase in jobs. Do you know where? The one you hate. To the health you've made some hires. You hate health. Oh, of course. All privately you want to do. No more public health. Now suddenly you've loved public health. How can you change? As it suits us. "My name is Rizzo, and as I want to turn it around." Because Adonis was happy to fire people when he was a minister. He was happy! There are statements from him! Suddenly he comes with public health, because private money only looks to get. They don't look at them having obligations. They won't get the machines expensive. She's not a sucker. They'll invest where they're parasitic. I'm a businessman too, gentlemen, and I have business. But I know one thing and remember it. Health is not a business. Anyone who sees it as a business plays a crown of human lives. It's over and out. Let's actually go. You don't have a schedule. I've said it a thousand times. There's no program. You keep saying that our goal is that. But to go to your goal, you must have the way to go. You don't tell us how. I want the way you tell me, what is the way to go to the goal, because otherwise the intention, the 'I want' and the 'I can'. Let me say one more thing. What has bothered me is that no one in here said about something that has been done by the European Union and I regret to say it for all of you. You're pro-Europeanists. Today I read a tweet from Mr Kyrgyzstan. It's yours, isn't it? If I am not mistaken, he is a Member of the New Democracy. He said that since the 1.9 trillion euros of the European Union, 52% will go to Germany. What's up, dudes? Colleagues, germans, are you or are you pro-European? Mr. Kurchos says so. 52% will be taken by the Germans. When I said they were Nazi and authoritarian, Mr Lebanese stood up and told us that we said they were Nazis. Their behavior is nazi, I said. He's authoritarian! 52%? Not even the patrons - not to say otherwise - of women edited do not do that. Do they think we're being issued? Are we serious? 52% of 1.9 trillion? Where are we? What Europe? Wait for Europe to save you. Yeah, that's it. Mr. Kurchos said so. To pull his handkerchief, not my ear. The ears of the Greek Solution will only be drawn by God, none of you, because you have many processions in the New Democracy. Don't say, for the twenty-eight cities, the Islamics you've done in three months. Twenty-eight Muslim towns you did in three months. Metarakis said so himself. Twenty-eight - yes - new hot spots. In Mourias, Mr. Colleague, there are five hundred residents and three hundred illegal residents! What are you doing? Where are you going with this? Where are you taking our country? Let's actually go. What are the questions the Prime Minister has not answered? He came, saw and left. Listen. I asked him here, too. What are the budgetary measures to be charged to the public debt? He never told us. Numbers, only to be crossed with SYRIZA to "play" on the channels. Your agony is which Minister will be the first in the channels. You start in the morning from seven to ten, eleven, twelve, I see Ministers' faces. All the ministers ahead. They say the same thing. They don't say anything different. "How do we smear SYRIZA to "play me" at night the news report. That is not political, ladies and gentlemen. How much are the cash measures? You've never told us. I asked the Prime Minister for them. He's here today and he's gone. How many state guarantees are there? He's not answering us! Where will the money be? He's not telling us! How much money from the European Union and how much from the ESDP? He's not telling us again! How many guarantees will be given by the European Union? He's not telling us again! Will the government finally tell us what this is and how it can be done? Unfortunately, you won't tell us. But what did you tell us? I'll tell you now, because this is where I'll close. You were telling us ten or fifteen days ago that the mask doesn't work. Now you're telling us that the mask does. You tell us that it is an additional measure, but you tell us that I will pay a fine if I do not wear it. The 'additional' the Prime Minister said so, I did not say so. You were all saying that. And I'll tell you straight away. I am not bad enough to tell the Minister and the New Democracy, his government, that because Davelis did an industry, I have to take a mask. I won't say that. I can't believe it. Oh, no. But it can't be a month ago not to take a mask, because it didn't have to, and now it needs to be. There's something wrong with you. Or before you lied or now you're lying. Decide. But in a government that contacted Chiodra, who said yesterday publicly that all the dead may not be from a coronary, may be a coronary, we put him on the coronary, Christ and Virgin Mary! Did you hear what Tsiodras said? He told the camera that those who die may not be from a coronary or may be from a coronary. We put them from a coronary. What is it, guys? Are they rabbits?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u83	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u84	Come on, he didn't say that! Okay, that's not what he said. Be a lawyer and an interpreter of Chiodra. So since you're going there, I'm going to tell you about the Practicals, what are the relationships of the top teachers with pharmaceutical companies, because that's where you don't talk. You're not talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u85	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u86	Hello? Hello, sir?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u87	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u88	Shame on you? I don't understand why embarrassment? I was elected. That's who you planted it! You planted him! Do you understand? Your party! You planted Mr. Chiodra! So I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u89	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u90	Shame on you... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr President, would you allow that to the Prime Minister? Would you allow that to the Prime Minister? You're all embarrassed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u91	No one...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u92	You're a pain in the ass! This is called a hooliganism of politics!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u93	Please, the holidays...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u94	How would you deal with the pandemic?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u95	You don't like to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u96	But you know, you're putting me in a huge suspicion...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, I will not allow any interruptions. Please, too! No one is allowed to interrupt. I interpret what Mr. Chiodras said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u98	The holidays are...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u99	There is also a measure of respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u100	No, there's no measure. Measure and measures to take you, Mr. Comrade. Respect to anyone who respects me! [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You said masks don't need to be made. Aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u101	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u102	Do you have Mr Chiodra say, 'we do not want any masks' and now we have to? Really? Instead of hiding, you have the nerve and you speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u103	Have you studied it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u104	...forcing the unemployed to give six euros a day? Do you force the unemployed to give six euros a day, and you are not ashamed? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Velopoulou, now you're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u106	No, Mr. President. You let the situation get out of hand, and I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u107	You've escaped...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u108	I'm sorry, because when the Prime Minister talks, no one is interrupting him. But you do it all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u109	Allow me a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u110	I feel sorry for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u111	Allow me to say that when you say that Mr. Chiodras, who enjoys a full-fledged assessment, was planted...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u112	It's your view!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u113	...it's like looking for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u114	He's appointed! Appointed by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u115	Nobody's planted!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u116	I don't take it back! I insist! Appointed by the New Democracy! Put the Ioannides on!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u117	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u118	You should put Mr Ioannides on the subject and he is in Stanford. Why didn't you put him on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u119	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u120	He's got different opinions. Sure! But until twenty days ago Mr. Chiodras told us not to put masks on, then told us to put...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u121	Well, we're done. We're moving on. How long do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u123	How long do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u124	Please, too! I will tease the 'early cow' and anyone's 'hero Buddha' if it bothers the Greek people. There's not six euros the middle family to give every day for masks, gentlemen. Understood? That's what I've been telling you for so long. And Mr Tsiodras, whom I respect and has been appointed - since you are disturbed by the word 'planted' - said another twenty days ago and other days ago. What's bothering you? I'm lying? That's the point. I'm not lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u125	Yes, absolutely lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u126	And I'm saying - and I'm closing here-- [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll hear it, you want it, you don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u127	Absolutely lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u128	Pull up, guys! Get back together, guys! If the PASOK and the New Democracy want to collide, collide. I would say, however, that you give the six euros. Other European countries are given the mask free of charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u129	That's what it's called populism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u130	Why are you doing this? I've respected Mrs. Gennamas. As many times as I disagreed with her, I never interrupted her. Why are you doing this? Mr President, this cannot continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u131	I fear that you cannot continue, and even if you are interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u132	The ingenuities for your home, Mr President. I'm sorry. Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u133	It's not brilliant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u134	You will respect the speaker!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u135	It's not brilliant!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, this is not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u137	It's not brilliant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u138	It's brilliant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u139	It's an empirical observation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u140	You let the situation get out of hand...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u141	It's an empirical observation!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u142	...and now you're suggesting to me. Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u143	We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much. So let's actually go. I say this: I try to tell you that six euros do not have all the families. What can we do, guys? They don't have them. That's six euros. They're bothered by some colleagues, because they're taking six grand, just like I am. Hey, what do we do now? They don't have the other one. You're forcing him to take it with you. That's what I'm telling you. Find a way, like other countries, to be given free of charge. Why a $20 million gift in the media just? Why did you go in the hundreds to give them to the CDCs and you don't give the masks for free? That's what I'm telling you. If we disagree somewhere about 'appointed' or 'planted', that is another story. But the substance is different. The Greeks don't have money. That's what you don't understand. You are far from Greek society. And I repeat, if you bothered the "planted", you appointed him, you put him. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] If you don't like it, you can go out, colleague. I don't like you interrupting me, either. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u145	Hey!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u146	Neither "e" nor "be"! Let's actually go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u147	No "be" to me for selling ointments for the coronary!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u148	You said 'e'. You're allowed by the president. You said 'e'. "E" not to me! Not to me "e"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u149	No "be" to me for selling ointments for the coronary!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u150	Are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u151	Please! Let's go! Don't interrupt Mr. Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u152	I'm very happy to work. I'm not providing service to every party to change every week...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u153	Yeah, right!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u154	...from the river, to the stream and to the dry river...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Amyras, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u156	This CD is submitted for the Minutes of Parliament. It is a complaint from a philosophical organisation, which denounces by video that in Moria they take the quadruple pet illegal immigrants. It's recorded in a video. I've never seen a philosopher complain. They take them, they pack them up, and I don't know what they're doing with them. I know what they're doing with them. Some of them are packages. And with them we'll live together! Multicultural society. It can't be done! It's sub-cultural. I'll testify for the Minutes. Anyone who wants to see it sees it. It's a club complaint - not mine - that all the pets are packed. In conclusion, I would like to tell you something, gentlemen of the New Democracy. You want - you don't want, we're going to make criticism. So far we have tabled proposals for you. You're even bothered by criticism. You'll hear us for one single reason. We are not here to stay here as a ougana or to make a fuss. We have given a lot of suggestions to the Prime Minister who he has implemented, copying them. If we didn't tell him about the eight cars, the armoured ones in Piraeus - I told him by the Prime Minister - you wouldn't know anything. You will listen, you want - you do not want the good and the wrong. If some people get annoyed, let them go back to local communities to see what they're going to tell them about the masks, whether they wear them or not they wear them, and how much they cost. Otherwise, you're far from society, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has been speaking for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u158	Please, ladies and gentlemen. It's over. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, both the Greek MPs and the Greek people today, following the meeting, had the opportunity to understand the wisdom with which Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for an important bill, addressed both the House and the Greek people. On the other hand, most importantly, deserved opposition has once again chosen the aggressive speech to the limits - let me say - of verbal violence. Couple, environmental crime, 'black' policy, at the same time that we here honoured Marfin's wrongdoers. It reminds us of these phrases at the time that led us to the tragic ending, which Parliament has finally honoured. A Greek Prime Minister, a government, a Greek Parliament to honor those victims! But now what is the warning difference? The Greek people have learned a lot and these efforts do not work. What is the Civic Opposition doing today? It attempts to reconnect itself to the thread of the aggression of an extremist, if you like, a confiscation of political opponents without using arguments, with an extremely aggressive reason, believing that it will go up again in a wave of discontent and lead back to power. The repetition of history, however, sometimes, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, is a great prank. Today we discussed a bill here that has a double goal. The Minister told you, the Prime Minister told you, all the government Members told you. This dual objective is economic development, while protecting the environment. Yes, it happens everywhere in the world and it can happen in Greece. Greece cannot stay entangled and retarded. This is our warning that you have no opinions. You were challenged by the Prime Minister to answer. Do you want them to remain locked in a hundred and seventy thousand of our fellow citizens? You didn't answer. Do you want environmental permits to continue to be approved in six to eight years? You didn't answer. Do you want the institutions of the protected areas to operate with the work insecurity of their workers and with the total of 8 million while protecting 30% of the Greek territory? You didn't answer. What did you tell us about the bill? A couple of strawberries. You have confined yourself to the procedures and how the bill is passed and you have confined yourself to an aggressive speech of other times, outdated. You've been overtaken by events. We will, however, continue the way the Prime Minister and the Minister have drawn up the bill. This is the path to sustainable development. Because it will respect the environment, but it will not remove and cancel the enormous potential that this thing gives, the wonderful Greek environment. I also want to dismantle a "mythology" not so much for the President of Greek Solution, but something that is generally said about the masks and that Tsiodra was revived. You know who does not take into account the new data and sticks to any view is not renowned for either its adaptability or its intelligence. I would like to say, however, about the masks, because I listen with interest, and I see the publications coming from everywhere, from the whole political area, Mr President. And it is indeed a debate about how the family of the unemployed will give 6 euros a day for masks. Where does that come from? I see in my home country at Volos so many craftsmen sew masks reused - I am referring to Volos and everywhere - with a life of two or three months, which are sold wholesalely EUR 1,5 and a retail price of EUR 2. Where these bills come from you that the Greek people must pay 200 euros a month. And, basically, what are these views doing? They urge the Greek citizens not to take the necessary measures now, at the time of re-launching and relaxing, to risk the rapid transmission of the virus in the second phase, and in the first phase we have successfully faced it. This is an irresponsible view. We need to review it. We need to see what costs can be subsidized and, of course, it must be discussed, but I think it is an excessive approach that hundreds of euros are needed for masks from the time that there is a solution to the reused masks that are economically and secure. And that's not all Greece says. The whole world says it. So let us end, with the aggressive speech, with the bizarre speech, because verbal violence is always the prelude to raw violence. Let us see what we are going to do and how we will face the next day after the great health crisis. Finally, Mr President, I say that today the Prime Minister has really given the tone with wisdom and arguments. This is the road that Greece will follow and will successfully pass this difficulty that it is presenting in front of us after the health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much. We shall now enter the flow of speakers and speakers. Mrs Diamanto Manolakos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u161	We will not follow populism. I want to start with Marfin. I'll repeat it. Our parliamentary representative has said so too. The real justice for Marfin's dead is to find the guilty. Although there was videos, although they were talking about provocators, the governments haven't found them in ten years. It's still in the dark. For us, the best plaque is to find the killers. [[Applause]] As far as violence is concerned, look, Minister, I want to say this. Violence has both color and name. It is the swollen exploitation of employers who move the whip of dismissal, but also the mechanisms of suppression of the bourgeois state that, in all labour claims, come out because of the bourgeoisie's order, interests support. Now let me tell you both the logic and the objectives of the bill. I would say to them, very clearly, the Prime Minister, and indeed, he was very specific about how and who will benefit legally, in essence, are also specific groups, as much as he tried to dress all this up in an environmentally friendly cloak. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] It cannot hide that the groups of renewable energy sources will be served to enable them to install and develop wind and photovoltaic parks wherever they want, even in areas of high environmental protection, but not in areas of hydroelectricity. The articles in the second chapter are typical of Article 11, which we put for roll-call vote, as the production licence is replaced by a simple producer's certificate, downgrading NATURA areas, destroying environmental mountainous volumes for green growth, namely the profitability of groups that are of course strengthening them, and the European Union is rich in subsidies, for free money, for people's money. At the same time in Article 98 you put fewer wages on smyrgy workers and you condemn them not to have these people insurance coverage, even failing your commitments. That's class policy. We are tabling their communication on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] But also in Article 116, SYRIZA dismantled the only research institute in IGM. It concludes the burial of the government today with the appointment of a clearer. The aim of the sale of mining research and, more generally, of mineral wealth to business groups. Secondly, it is provoked that multinational hydrocarbon extraction by Article 110, which may use areas of the public, OTA, NATURA, for seismic and other geophysical research, without any authorisation or consent being required. This is where the Prime Minister completely silenced it. You may say temporary use, but you did not know the time frame. Now, of course, you have come and put this quarter period. But you're not limiting the extent. Whatever they want to do, whatever they want to destroy. Thirdly, you are promoting the further release of energy with many consequences for the people. It's Article 115. The greatest crime, of course, is total trade - the privatisation of electricity. It is the liberation policy that all governments have implemented over the past decade, but also the privatization of PPC, IPTO and TEDO and the abolition of public control. All this serves to liberate the sector consistently, I would say, both from the New Democracy and from the SYRIZA, just as the dictates of the European Union are. Fourthly, you are serving the tourist industry even within forests and oaks that you are now going to call them parks. You separate zones within protected areas and define uses where everything is permitted. It's a profitable way out of construction as well. I am talking about Article 44, but also Article 48. It cancels forest maps and legalizes any illegal use and violation of forest land. These "philo-environmental" you are going through. Basically, you legalize illegality. Together with the settlements. So Article 50 of SYRIZA's started and you go on. It's unconstitutional. For all these three articles we ask for a roll-call vote. Five, the garbage is gold. Article 83 exempts the approval of the regional management plan from annoying and time-consuming opinions for government planning to pass. At the same time as transporting Attica waste into the Graphic, Article 92 legitimizes the illegal operation of waste transhipment stations with the concept of 'decide and order'. They already operate in areas that do not have environmental conditions and some are outbreaks of contamination. That's why there are mobilizations in Perama. And indeed, their mayor, although SYRIZA, defends the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u162	No, of course not. On the contrary. We're denounced.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u163	He made an announcement and I'll give it to you, Mr. Famele. You can smile. In the House, however, SYRIZA's representative says it's unconstitutional and it's unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt. We need to get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u165	In Article 93 for the management of solid waste on the islands, PFOs are created as public limited companies. Many mayors attending both the New Democracy and the southern Aegean and the Ionian islands are calling for its withdrawal and are most. This is where you're not smiling. We also ask for a roll-call vote on these articles. So, what do you guys promote? Those groups. You satisfy their needs and interests by leveling environmental restrictions, i.e. obstacles to their uninterrupted profitability. You are going through it with legal terrestrials that cause environmental disaster and popular protest. How? By effectively abolishing controls on environmental licensing by means of suffocating deadlines for those services that are unable to comply. On the expiry of the deadlines, the opinion is considered positive. And with private evaluators - which you are looking at for environmental impact studies - but which may also have interests. We submit a letter from a club proving such matters in the Bay of Theolologos - Atalant and, of course, they will multiply. I am talking about the articles in the first chapter on simplifying the environmental authorisation for which we are asking for a roll-call vote, namely Articles 2.3, 4 and 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u166	Your Honor, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u167	I am referring above all to the most 'poisonous' articles that the JRC is asking for a roll-call vote. There's more. We'd put Article 99 too, but we thought you'd withdraw it, but you'd eventually partially withdrew it. The trespassers in zone A are holding them and pushing them forward. However, you also made a oil that is well described by the University of Crete. Use the spatial planning tools and the structured environment and transfer them as spatial planning tools to the natural environment. This is completely unscientific, because in the natural environment the dominant we measure are the distributions of protected species and habitats and not the uses of land, which Mr Mitsotakis so persistently supported in his speech. So you, through land uses, allow many incompatible activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u168	Madam Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u169	I call for your tolerance, as do the other speakers. You have given us an extension of tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u170	We didn't tell you to extend tolerant. You've known since this morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u171	Also, land uses have been determined by presidential decree at a point even...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u172	Your Honor, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u173	I shall conclude, Madam President. Also, land uses have been defined by a presidential decree to the extent that final uses are not based on a study, but to define mining activities, quarries, medals and others. I mean, the study is for the eyes of the world. All of these are wonderful and are touching with the proposals of the Association of Greek Industrialists and other employers' associations calling for targeted policies and reforms for a productive model, which is worse than the pandemic. Along with the anti-environmental bill you are preparing a new round of anti-laboratory measures to stimulate entrepreneurship, which means even worse terms of work, life and breath for the majority of the people. That is why philosophical recipe for crisis management cannot exist, as there is no capitalist growth to the benefit of the people. We invite the workers to continue. They can cause cracks in capitalist barbarism until they overthrow this exploitive barbaric inhumane system. In this race, the JRC will be in the front.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you that it was decided this morning that all the speakers, special speakers, rapporteurs and colleagues will speak for eight minutes. I would ask you very much to try and keep the time to talk to another twenty-five Members who have not yet spoken, and we still have two special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u175	Madam President, I would like to clarify.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u176	You're welcome, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u177	As a parliamentary representative, because Mrs Manolakou referred to SYRIZA, I would like to clarify a minute and a half to be tabled in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u178	When you talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u179	Please, as a parliamentary representative, I would like to speak because he referred to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u180	Colleague, if this is not so urgent, and can the special speakers end, please very much...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u181	It is, Madam President. It is about parliamentary order, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u182	Please, Mr. Femelle, listen to me because I'm running the Chair. Special speakers haven't spoken. It's been 13.00 hours, and a Member has not spoken. To finish the special speakers and then I will give you the floor for one minute to put them on what you want to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u183	I don't want to be placed. I would like to announce that I submit a document from the Municipality of Keracini, which disguises what the speaker said on behalf of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u184	Check it out, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u185	It is good for the JRC to be careful, because the mayor said that this bill and the placement of the SMA in Schisto should not be passed. It's simple. Do not spread lies to the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, one second. It's distorting. I wasn't talking about the municipality of Keratini, which is what it is, but Perama. I said you wouldn't be twisted. You've got a rule. I said pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u187	Good. The clarification has been made. The debate is over. Thank you very much. You'll testify to the Minutes. Please have the floor now, Mr. Villardos, a special speaker from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Can I get started?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u189	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u190	All right, I'm waiting for my colleagues to stop. I'm going to start from Marfin's theme, the unfamiliar, unfortunately, Marfin's crime, the murder against many who reminded me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u191	Excuse me, gentlemen, you're in first seats. The speaker speaks and he hears you. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u192	We're correcting inaccuracies, what can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u193	Uh, okay, that's over, it's over. You gave your explanation, I think Mr. Famelos understood it, the misunderstanding is over. We're done. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u194	Unfortunately, Marfin's unbelievable crime, the murder against many of the Prime Minister's reminiscents, marks mainly the Greeks' first and only uprising against the memorials that are continuing, which was essentially drowned by the fire in Marfin. It is not right, therefore, to refer to their defenders. However, environmental legislation has not been hampering the country for decades, but its governments. As regards RES, renewable energy sources, PPC was a pioneer in this area. Who, really, stopped them? We have now asked Mr Stakoura many times - I and the President of the Greek Solution before - also about the level of measures to deal with pandemic, budgetary, cash, guarantees of our own, European. The reason is that he and the Prime Minister are saying other things. A few weeks ago the Minister of Finance said that only fiscal measures were 6.8 billion euros and later the Prime Minister talked about 14 billion euros and then a few days later, 8 billion euros to 10 billion euros. We have calculated only the budgets under the EUR 6.8 billion mentioned by the Minister of Finance. Yesterday Mr Tsakalotos only asked about budgetary measures and he did not give any answer at all. He avoided it, he escaped. It is disgraceful, in our view, that this is how the citizens are deliberately misled. This also applies to the recession, which the Bank of Greece predicts at 4%, Mr Stakoras at 4.7% and the Prime Minister abroad at 10%. With such clear differences of position, in our view, no country is being run. I hope, however, that the difficulties will be behind us in terms of the economy, as the Prime Minister said. Finally, we were comical about his reference to the 40% discount - I mean the Minister of Finance - as far as rents were concerned, as if it were a measure of the public. The property owners pay it, not the state. As far as Ms Bakoyannis and her green sensitivity are concerned, however, in favour of Article 44 and the rest of the photographic arrangements for Skouria, she will be reminded that when she had her own party, she had been placed against the mining of the "ELLENIC FRUYS" in Skouria, especially those with an open mineral. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, in relation to the incompetent attack on us by the disgraceful Member of the New Democracy yesterday - today on another subject, however, which was obviously an issue with regard to immigration yesterday - we say the following. While Mrs Bakoyannis asked for refugees in Crete to harvest olives in November, according to the OAED plan, she now reacts to the transfer of immigrants to Chania. And secondly, Mr. Bakoyannis writes that he canceled the transfer of immigrants to Karpenisi, so it would be better if we weren't so hypocritical. I'm filing it in the Minutes. In relation to today's unacceptable bill, not only do we say it, but dozens of bodies from which we have received dozens of reports, such as the Citizens' Counsel to the National Marine Park of Zakynthos. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now refer only to certain articles, so that they can be understood at least as to what time allows us to do so. In the second article, we are, of course, in favour of the simplification of procedures, without, of course, any reductions. On such a serious issue, however, such as the procedures for the submission and approval of environmental impact studies, the suffocating deadlines you are trying to establish at all stages of environmental licensing are absolutely unrealistic. These deadlines do not exist in the European Union, since Directive 2014/52 refers to Article 4b6 which we will table in the Minutes that the maximum date for the decision is ninety days, and in complex cases it can be extended. So why is this being reduced to thirty days? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Instead of raising the participation of the local community concerned now in the decision-making process, as imposed by European law and by the Treaty of Aristotle, we will also present it in the Minutes - with this draft law being further downgraded, with the existing institutional framework already being problematic. The Archiving Convention does not stipulate that the public concerned must be aware of the projects and activities proposed and be given the opportunity to give an opinion on them very early in the proceedings, when all possible is still open. This is not guaranteed by the existing framework, where, at the stage of preliminary environmental assessment and evaluation, there is not only consultation with the local community, but not even information. Therefore, local society is aware of any project too late, only when the study is sent, which is the last stage of environmental licensing, so that it is then faced with something completely new that does not have the necessary time to understand and evaluate. Such actions are unacceptable, which the authors of the bill certainly understand. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Villardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 7 in this case introduces the second major change which is particularly concerned after the changes made to Article 2. Until now, there has been the prediction that the administration could hire a certified environmental impact assessment assessor to help her do her job even more by draw, i.e. in a transparent and objective manner, by trying to address through this rule the lack of resources and qualified human resources in public administration. The amendment provides that private investors may now take part in the administrative process, which is to replace the administration. The logic of this change is too blurred. Evaluators should assess without any professional relationship with the investor the quality of their studies, not be his contractors and only by name assessors who replace its administration and crisis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two more minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u195	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u196	All right, Madam President, I'll stop anytime you tell me. Reminds indirectly the packed bonds - the CDOs - that caused the financial crisis of 2008, since their value was valued by their own issuers who had been badly paying the rating companies, thus even sorting waste with “AA”. That's exactly what this bill does. Here, therefore, an unacceptable distortion of the procedure is adopted by privatising sensitive public functions, which, as far as we know, does not exist in any other European state. It is not at all understandable that these individuals should be excluded from the time limits laid down in the administration itself for the various stages of environmental licensing. If there is a reform here that would really be radical in the direction of substantially improving the environmental licensing process in Greece, that would be the definition of the designers who carry out environmental project and activity studies, not at the choice of investors, but in a sound, objective way by the public administration. We are here to make proposals and not just criticism. And this must obviously be done at a cost covered by investors so as to stop low-quality environmental studies that do not normally identify any negative environmental impacts on planned projects and activities, thus simply serving the interests of their employers and not good environmental management. To adopt, today, forty years, extreme neoliberal methods that have already failed in the countries that have been implemented are not the best, as is the case for privatization of public utilities, strategies and profitable businesses. Apparently, I don't have any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u197	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The floor is now eight minutes from the special speaker of Mera25 Mr. Kriton - Ilias Arsenis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Madam President. Parliamentarians and MPs, Prime Minister, every time he got to your point of view, he told us that you were viewed as the 'green Prime Minister of Europe'. We really wish you to be, but we wonder how. Hydrocarbon extractions, how much more in protected areas? With wind parks in NATURA? By abolishing management bodies of protected areas? With uncontrolled hydrocarbon extraction research? With mining waste sites without authorisation? Deferred vague forest maps? With a five-year extension of environmental permits in Skouria and elsewhere? By hunting, using kernel and legalising his trade? Don't be quiet either, Minister. Yesterday's gathering wasn't SYRIZA's. It was forty movements from all over Greece. There was no central control, and this is the biggest threat to your government. Of course, you have gone to the suppression of reactions. Yesterday these people who stayed for the evening outside the House visited MATs for ID, as if they didn't know who those people who kept the placats and what they had to do in the square outside the House. Furthermore, the twenty thousand signatures given to Mr Tasoula never arrived, as the movements requested, to the MPs. In addition, you brought this bill with the House closed. I'm going to talk to you on a few issues by trying, at least at this very last moment, to make you listen to the voice of reason and to withdraw these screaming things that exist in your bill. So I come to the amendment that you have brought us to the last minute for the hawks. Allow herd hunting. As you will see in the driver published by the man you obviously met to convince you to pass this amendment, they catch these hawks from their nests. This is the main trend these people have. If you read the forums dealing with this issue, you'll see that they're talking about the illegal arrest of rays. What are you going to do? Create a market for hawks? You're going to wipe out the hawks from Greece. They sell us ancient Greece to disappear and destroy what was left of nature in this place from ancient times until today. Don't you know about the illegal market in Schisto? Don't you know about the six thousand seized wild birds currently in shelters? How did they not get caught by the authorities yet? You legalize what is illegal internationally trade in wildlife. Of course, this was SYRIZA's bill that did not pass because of the elections. But what does that mean? Together, will you destroy it? Stop and withdraw your amendment. I now come to the mining areas with simple notification, without environmental authorisation. But these areas have the effect of mining. Yes, Mr. Undersecretary, these spaces! If the nozzle is open and there are stalks, the main theme of the mining effects is these spaces. If we don't have environmental permits for them, it's like excluding all mining from licensing. You'll tell me it's just the new spaces that don't need to be notified. But the same goes for new spaces. And I would remind you that there were problems with Skouria, but also in Olympiada recently with the flood, but also with the citizens' complaints about the illegal and dangerous activities of the company "ELLENIC FRYS". I'm asking you to withdraw it. I'm coming to the forest maps now. I ask you to withdraw at least the OPEKEPE background for the reasons I have mentioned both in my prototype and in my three speeches in committee. Don't open valid maps, don't open again at least those who closed, don't change the specifications, don't legalise the trespassers. Withdraw this article. The next issue is the five-year extension of environmental permits. Prime Minister, you tell us that we have ineffective environmental protection in relation to other countries. But if, because of the memoranda, we are constantly losing environmental auditors, environmental inspectors, and obviously when we have 50% subsistence of services, we will have ineffective environmental protection. You compare us with countries that have strong control mechanisms. We're not that kind of thing. Do you want to be? We can. And actually, only you can do it while you're government. Involve auditors, hire environmental inspectors, strengthen your licensing mechanisms, otherwise withdraw your articles, otherwise withdraw privatisation, withdraw the obligation to check in twenty days the result of private control. Because if you do not withdraw it, what you are doing is to make the decision go to the Secretary-General as provided for in your article, when the twenty days - and obviously cannot be authorised in this period - cannot be observed. And I'm coming to the RES. Mr. Karathanasopoulos is right that you are preparing wind turbine cemeteries. You need to implement what environmental organisations are asking you to do, namely a guarantee letter that will be there, the money will be in the public fund, paid by the companies, so that when the operation of a wind farm ends, the public can have the money to withdraw these wind turbines. Also, if, on the basis of the study of the University of Ioannina, we achieve the EIA development objectives without using the NATURA areas, you need to answer us why, then, we need to place wind parks and large EIA parks within NATURA with the consequences they have. If that's not necessary, why should we? A further issue is oil extraction in protected areas. Minister, I told you in which countries mining is banned: in Portugal, Spain and, among others, Italy. What do these countries have in common? Tourism. In other words, countries that stop mining are the ones that claim like us part of the tourist pie. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will be done in a minute. You tell us that you want to imitate the Netherlands, with which we do not look like anything. Remove your devices. 'Green government' with oil and arsenic in its hands cannot be done. You are a government of mining, services and war against nature. You're the government that puts the profit over life. You're even retiring this bill now. If you want to become a green government, be. We'll applaud you, but be done. You are now government of arsenic and oil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chardalia, for two minutes, to be placed on the amendment tabled. Immediately after that, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, will take the floor. Then, from the MPs, Mr Stamenitis and Mrs Pulou will speak and immediately thereafter the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Economou, will speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention concerns your brief information on the amendment we tabled this morning and concerns the legalisation of the countryside and existing buildings of the former American Base in Nea MacAttica. The proposed regulation aims to legitimise this detailed area as well as all the facilities allocated to the Fire Corps in Nea MacAttica. In particular, this area and its legitimate facilities were initially used by the housing needs of the US Base until the closure in 1995. And since 2000, by decision of the Board of Directors of the State Building Company, it has been approved for an indefinite period and without any consideration for the granting of the use of the land and the existing public property to the Headquarters of the Firehouse for the purpose of housing the Fire Schools. It concerns issues which are extremely important, since the Firehouse has since the very beginning finalised the placement of the training centre, especially training in this area. This project has been sponsored by a 15 million-dollar contract between the Fire Corps and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation since June 2019, approved by the then Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou. This procedure is not unprecedented for the Greek Parliament. I would remind you that with Law No 4081/2012 and Article 5 respectively legalised the buildings of the Macedonian Academy of Shipping. It's about existing buildings. It doesn't change anything. What is very important is that there is a timetable for implementation, which results from the contract of the Fire Corps with the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, and that is why the process of legalisation needs to be progressed immediately. It is noted that this project - both its studies and its construction - will be licensed and controlled at every step, as stated by the existing legislation, by the relevant services, the Ministry of the Environment and the Archaeological Service, as is the case for every project. This amendment only concerns the legalisation of the existing situation, which has been in this problematic situation for many decades now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Now the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor for eight minutes. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, for Marfin I made an extensive statement after the Prime Minister's speech. So I go directly to the subject of today's draft law by making some generalizations about the relaunching of the Greek economy. I have read with great diligence the minutes of the committee's meetings and listened to the Members' rapporteurs. Ladies and gentlemen, the main issue today for Greece, which seems to be facing the pandemic next, is the relaunch of the economy, a smooth and rapid relaunch of the economy, to cover - as far as possible - the lost ground from these two months beyond which we are and we will still be out of normal operation of the economy because of COVID -19. So far, if I were to try to generalize what we say, I would say - by summarizing in a small phrase - that what is heard as a proposal for the present and the next day is'state, give' -'state, do not take'. "State, give" wages, such as those given now - and rightly - to people who have an absolute need because they have an empty life and "state, don't take" and I am talking about taxes and contributions. That's right. We welcomed them and helped in their specialization as a Change Movement, including charges that had "dried from radar". We did this diligently. We did it seriously. We didn't do it with foolishness, and in a way of silky auction, who would give the most to do the good. We're serious. But now that we think the next day, the'state, give' -'state, don't take' is not a national strategy. It is a necessary instrument, but it must have above that and before that the ideas of business community operators and businessmen, small, medium-sized, large, everyone in his sector, about what he must do, what idea he has, to deal with these conditions from a business point of view, and of course the government has a comprehensive holistic plan that will act as a compass. I think that we also have some encouraging elements within the problem, such as the digitalisation of many transactions, the digital trade that has increased and other moments of a certain development, which, with the pressure of the pandemic, we have gone there, but a holistic plan on how to get away from this materialistic environment, which has unfortunately returned, we do not have the government. I am sorry to say this and also in the communications from the industrialists, BSE was outside the framework. He tabled seven proposals for exiting the crisis, all of which were "state, give" - "state, don't get". They don't say what they're gonna do. If you see, ladies and gentlemen, how Greece produces Gross Domestic Product - and unfortunately the data we have ready and can use here in the House is limited to the year 2017, for 2018 and 2019 we are told that we will have specific results in October 2020 - if you see what Greeks and Greeks produce as Gross Domestic Product, you will see that twenty-two branches produce more than 1% of these branches account for 83% of our total production. You will also see that the most important parts of wealth production at home are in the tertiary sector, resulting from the tertiary sector of services of 80%. Is that an advantage or a disadvantage? None of us know. We'll see it in the next few months in the next few weeks. And do not deceive ourselves of having the facilities, as we say many times - and I have said and corrected myself - that 20% - 25% is tourism. It's not like that. This breaks in a lot. 20% -25% is generated by many activities. The accommodation is a limited percentage of national wealth production compared to the total 20% -25%. There are parallel activities that are intertwined along the way. They affect the primary sector, such as large units I have met in Greece - and they are, fortunately, many - which make use of agricultural production when hosting tourists and their supplies, as far as food is concerned, made by Greek products, by Greek producers. So it depends a lot on the business itself. Many things depend on the business sectors themselves. There's no convenience of 25% of one who, if he works, we're going well, or the difficulty that if he doesn't work, we're destroyed. That is why the government needs to attack, not production, we do not want to make a state economy - they have died, and fortunately - but we want to have a creative state, that is to say, a creative government, which will understand it and be able not to guide it exactly, but to facilitate it by taking care of it. Such things we haven't heard, nor have we even seen a holistic plan. Now, in these hours we are here in plenary, we for this citizen who observes - we, I mean all of us - set some examples of government and counter-population. The government gave its own. We, in opposition, heard another opposition voice, that of the Major Anti-Population screaming at its legal arguments and, of course, scandalology. This is a political substitute. I said today earlier and yesterday that legal science and constitutional law give many opportunities to lawyers, but they are not political substitutes. When you're using them exclusively, they're sealing them, they're declaring your impotence of politics. So we heard the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Famello, today and yesterday: stress, legalism, not substance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, with Mr Arvanitides, have set an example of a creative serious opposition from a social-democratic point of view that is not based on principles alone or on messages, but which is prosthetic, is touching on the day-to-day act. Since I do not have much time, let me sum up on two - three points on which topics are or what topics we are dealing with in this draft law. First of all, is it possible for you - as you are supposed to - to be focused on the functioning of the economy by a ministerial decision to bring about a retrospective overturning of the functioning of the market? I am referring to those who, in an effort to contribute to the creation of a new energy environment, have tabled their proposals, in the sense that some have prepared, also invested, in this game of the energy market on democratic terms. Have problems been identified in practice? They've been spotted. They've been untieged. But retrospective overthrowing is not a good rule for the functioning of the market. Who can say that when you put societal aspects, parts, foundation new economic activities in an environment shaped by 2017 and while they have started to overthrow them, this is investment? It's uninvested, and I think that's what should concern you mainly. Mr Arvanitides said so extensively and I stress it very strongly, because there is a principle here, that 'I am not reversing retroactive economic data on the basis of which some entrepreneurs have moved forward to invest'. Secondly, a debate took place yesterday at the initiative of SYRIZA on Article 44. Of the four proposals made by SYRIZA, we three failed to accept them, and for the fourth I expressed myself in a way that expressed the doubts we had. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Counselor - I don't care who he is, I understand many times more than I say, but I don't care, I don't care - spoke negatively about Rule 44 and the Scientific Service of the House. So we too had to look after possible risks. That's what I said, and that's where I stopped. If you were to ask me now - and now I have time to talk - what will happen to the Council of State when these cases arrive, the legal experience I have and the legal profession I practice and now that we are talking about, it allows me to tell you that I do not see these arguments thriving in the Council of State. Unless, of course, the regulatory acts to be adopted under this law have problems. There, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Comrade, excuse me, but you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u204	I shall conclude, Madam President. But by laying down general rules in detail, the question arises: why so detailed? Yes, because they did, ladies and gentlemen, whatever they wanted in the regions, there was diversity, there was a mess, so the legislator is forced to do more than he should be, that is, in detail, while he is general and should be general, but this may help. However, risk is a possibility, and we with the Citizens' Counselor and the Parliament's Scientific Service have had to keep our distance from Article 44, and that is what we have done. I'm closing, since Mrs. Sakurafa wants me to finish. There is a piece of authorisation here, which Mr Hatzidakis pointed out yesterday in his speech and I heard him, namely that we need to move on to rapid permits and not to those that delay the economy for six and eight years. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for a resolution in the previous part-session as a Member of Parliament. It's one of the issues that I've identified my life as a lawyer and as a politician. I would like to say to you, Minister, that the reduction in days by setting different exclusive deadlines does not speed up things up, because the administration understands them as an indicator of the exclusive deadlines of the legislature and because justice does the same, it rewards the administration. You tell the other to adopt this act in sixty days, in seventy, eighty, ninety, and he says, "I didn't have time for it" and he publishes it in eight, six years, in two years, and in eight months and steals the time of the citizen, as if the time of the administration was more good than the time of the citizen. To say now that I 'determine other exclusive deadlines', since we have lost the opportunity to revise the Constitution to say that, where the legislator sets exclusive deadlines, these are now exclusive, no matter what you say here - I have said this to Mr Georgiadis - it is meaningless, Minister. Of course, it is meaningless when you remove some stages. All of the six stages - here I have been written by my associates - you're abolishing one. I think that is a good thing. Why should I, by definition, consider that where opinions are delayed, be referred to the Central Board of Environmental Licensing? That is why they will not be delayed, when there are too many of them when they come from many points? That you should have analysed. You didn't. Ultimately, since you've got a year in the Ministry, can you tell us the delays of six and eight years at what stage is it specifically produced? Let's see if the instruments that you're enacting here really will work speedily. Because prolongation of licences is not an acceleration of licensing procedures, it is an extension. It could be right. I don't know. It may not be right, and I don't know that either, but acceleration is not law-enforcement. So we have doubts, we have reservations, we have arguments, and Mr Arvanitides has expressed them in a very serious way and as much as I can on my part. I want to tell you, Minister, that you will be judged in practice. This will be judged in practice, as will a lot of what we do here, because after a few months we will have a picture of what is going on quickly and what is not going on. If I am to judge by the draft law passed in the House on immigration policy, which would speed up everything and speed up anything, then I know I have an experience to say that many things are said in the House in a good way, with good intentions, but reality disproves them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr Colleague, I would just like to say that what you say is very interesting, but as far as I am concerned, because you referred to me about the fact that I don't think I want to hear you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u206	That's cute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u207	I'll get it, too. I would like to remind you that President Kaklamani this morning it was decided that this Chamber should be empty at 7 p.m. because the Committee on Civil Service should meet and that all the speakers, chairmen of Parliamentary Groups, parliamentary representatives, special speakers, rapporteurs and speakers, have eight minutes. So I would ask you to hold tight the time, because I think that some colleagues will either not speak or speak unfairly and speak much less time and I think that no one wants that. Isn't that right? Now I will give the floor to Mr Stamenitis, asking him to keep the time and then to Mrs Pulou, and then, as I said, to the Deputy Minister, Mr Economou. Here, Mr Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are now completing the debate on the articles, the drafting of the bill, and I think that especially those who took part in or attended the proceedings, both in committee and in plenary, but also today, whether they agree or disagree, must, however, recognise to the head of the Ministry of the Environment that it has exhausted all the scope for dialogue, analysis, discussion and clarification of points that may need further explanations. Just like he had to do. But because today we are closing the debate and even today - and yesterday - various inaccuracies have been heard, it is good to put things in place. Furthermore, either one or he disagrees with the way the Ministry chooses to make changes, I do not think there is anyone who cannot admit, after the unveiling position of the Minister yesterday in plenary on what the current government has received in the field of energy, the management of natural resources, the environment and the procedural issues, that this bill is an intrusion in environmental legislation that leads us to the future and gives us all the tools to address the current environmental challenges. Starting with the simplification of environmental authorisations, which is regulated - a cut introduced by the first chapter and by Articles 1 to 8, this draft law regulates a number of issues such as the process of issuing, renewing and updating, but also a reduction in the procedural burdens of services. In fact, services and potential investors are being exempted from an obligation to participate in a daring process which actually has nothing to contribute to the environment. To supplement, one would say in the above regulations, this draft law with the second chapter changes the procedures for the licensing of renewable energy sources by simplifying and simplifying the legislative framework. We believe that investments in the energy sector have a double benefit: strengthening the economy on the one hand and reducing the environmental burden on the other. We prove this in practice to be the case with the specific arrangements of the bill. With the third chapter on the management of protected areas, what is actually happening? It is to go from an inefficient and dysfunctional model to a more organised and more operational model with a specific state-owned major grant. In other words, the way in which it is managed is being modernised, the bureaucratic obstacles and the phenomena of overlapping of responsibilities between operators and services are being eroded. The arrangements for protected areas and the attempt to become a household at last is completed with the provisions of the fourth chapter and the living conditions of the NATURA. We, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, are not in favour of any arrangements on a case-by-case basis. We support a specific framework under which they will apply to all the same. For example, every citizen of Pella prefecture will know from the outset what activities are allowed and which are not in the vicinity of Lake Vegoritis. No scholars, no departments, no interventions, no misunderstandings, but specific things. Obviously, to react, you don't like that. You obviously prefer to invest and work for those who have luck or barbas in Koroni! Because otherwise, it really does not explain your reaction to this initiative. Do not claim that you have been caught by the pain for the uses of land in the “NATURA” regions. We have seen - the Minister said yesterday - what you have done on your day in these areas. On forest maps now the significant omissions that led to thousands of our fellow citizens presenting objections or applications for corrections to forest maps are restored. Articles 48 and 49 of this Regulation clarify the nature of the areas granted by the Greek State for agricultural holdings and the examination procedures are accelerated with a view to the rapid suspension of forest maps. You are ostriching, gentlemen of SYRIZA, when you do not admit the great failure in this matter. Can anyone explain to the producer of Pella Prefecture who lost thousands of euros from his income when the field grown by his grandparents, his parents and himself, by your law, is no longer a field but a forest? You can't. If you went to ask all those who had these problems, who were subjected to demonstrable hardships and a loss of income needed to cultivate and live their families, you would probably understand the size of your mistake. The same was done with regard to the question of housing density which is also dealt with in the sixth chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law solves problems, such as the issue of waste in many areas of the country. Article 83 regulates national and regional waste planning in the country. It is an extremely important problem of an environmental nature that has worked for many years with the participation of regional and local authorities. Also, a very important regulation with a strong environmental character is that of Article 89. Article 89 provides that it is necessary to submit a signed contract of the scaffolding and demolition waste manager with an approved alternative management system. What we are saying these days very often is very understandable. You can't issue building permits if you haven't planned what to do with the balls. I wonder why you disagree. You obviously want to have a ball everywhere on the sidewalks, under the bridges, in the fields. Finally, before I close my reference to the most important points in the bill, I would also like to refer to Article 123, which rationalises the compensation prices for RES stations installed for professional farmers by allowing them to return to the pre-2014 situation. Ladies and gentlemen, as I stressed at the beginning of yesterday's sitting, today's bill is a European, pro-investment and a green bill that meets citizens' demands. I think this has been demonstrated by the great analysis and processing of its points. The main objective of today's government is the policies it is developing to have tangible results and a direct positive footprint on citizens' quality of life. Our political culture is at the heart of the position that governance is a tool with which problems are solved and not created. It is the means to make citizens' lives better and not more difficult. At the end of these discussions in committee and in plenary I am sure that this position is also served by the Ministry of the Environment bill, which will solve problems and contribute to the implementation of the government's environmental agenda. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u209	Thank you. Mrs. Pulu from SYRIZA has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I speak about the bill, I would like to thank the country's health staff for the great struggle he has given and gives us to protect our health from the coronary pandemic. We need our thanks to them to be truly supported in meeting their demands for the strengthening of the National Health System. Thanks, too, to all those who were exposed to the front line providing services to society. Ladies and gentlemen, many times in the political dialogue we resort to over-examination and over-examination. The current government as opposition was a champion in this: Prespes, refugee, climate change and much more. In the bill, however, which we are discussing as much as I do in its characterisation, the words are poor to bear the size of the disaster it brings. GREENPEACE and WWF are characterising this as an unprecedented environmental crime and the same tone has been expressed, and the global opposition to demand that all environmental organisations and the scientific community withdraw from it. As the Scientific Committee of the Parliament raised serious objections to specific articles, as well as the Citizens' Counsel. Is the Government of New Democracy, which has self-reliance in this Parliament justified in establishing rules on the environment despite the universal discord between all the actors with knowledge and active participation in its protection? Are rules affecting a negative and irreparable balance of life with the environment in the midst of a climate crisis? There is a serious question of democracy here. To deal with the health crisis, the government trusted the scientific community and did very well. It is also a major issue, however, that goes far beyond it. She doesn't even call her in consultation. She's missing her. Furthermore, it is in direct contrast with the International Union for the Protection of Nature and other international organisations' texts with ecology science and international practice. It's disastrous in my view. The Government baptises the draft law'modernising environmental legislation'. How irony and how poor a trick! And how cynical, how cynical, however, that a draft law that does not have as a basis the current problems, the climate crisis for sustainability, but only the facilitation of investment, without principles and criteria of public interest, should be based on the concept of the New Democracy. This modernisation breaks down what has been conquered in recent years and turns us many decades back when environmental protection was an unknown word. The explanatory statement states that the environmental licensing in Greece is still a timely administrative process and therefore an important blocking factor in the promotion of investment. In the name of development, however, it is not justified, in any way, to abolish the control of environmental impact studies by a public body. It is not justified that the controlled investor should also be involved in control, much more so when many studies that are currently delaying, by a common confession, are not complete on the basis of environmental protection conditions. The arrangements you enter will lead to even more sloppy and pre-formative studies that will serve short-term speculative interests. We are opposed to environmental licensing. The government sees it as an obstacle, and it is the guarantee of a healthy environment and quality of life. The view of the environment as land use rather than a protected public asset is totally unacceptable. The legislation resulting from this assumption paves the way for an extensive alteration of the natural environment of habitats and species. It cancels the specific environmental studies and management plans of NATURA and introduces logics used in the organisation of urban areas. Furthermore, it legalises all arbitrary structures in streams, forests, protected areas, existing and future. The bill circumvents and annulls regional and local planning and also radically weakens the participation and control of local communities in the management of local affairs. The demolition of the municipalities by the bodies managing the protection of areas on their own administrative limits, as well as the power to manage the waste, reverses Article 102 of the Constitution, abolishes decentralisation and depreciates local self-government. The concern and reluctance of the municipalities and the CEDEFOP in this perspective are well founded. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's proposal for a law provides for total dystopia, which goes beyond the most pessimistic projections. It also contains many photographic devices that are an old art of the Greek Right. The bill comes from that. The sixty-six articles in the original text that you have consulted, you appreciably reach thirty and you add all the time to make up for the payroll of the “days” Golden Boys. Is the state finally a caricature? The design is only about your customers' big and small services. With regard to the urban environment, the proposal for a law contains provisions which violate existing land uses by presidential decrees to place, for example, and to legalise waste transhipment stations in Attica, even contrary to decisions of the Council of State. We all know that Athens has evolved over the last decades in metropolis with its prospects and problems. Despite your retreat, Minister, your proposal in ignorance of the Municipality of Athens and local societies once again to change the use of land in the centre of the city, displacement of the housing areas, would have disastrous consequences as the international experience shows. The image of the large urban centers, which were transformed into commercial administrative centers, necessitating the use of dwellings from entire districts, the image of ghost cities that are lacking in nights and weekends is not your innovation. You are simply copying late when Europe has already corrected. Despite the explicit direction of the presidential decrees currently in force to strengthen the homes in the commercial triangle and in the areas of Psyrri - Silkworks, your proposal turned them into hotel areas. The great crisis caused by the hoteling of home areas in the historic cities of Europe, following the expansion of Airbnb, is well known, but it has not hit you. Your only goal is short-term gain and you're planning on it alone. Ladies and gentlemen, if the proposal becomes a law of the state, it will raise legal issues to the country, says the Aegean University. It is certain that major precarious investments will cause social reactions, mobilisations and appeals, which will further delay their implementation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It will, however, open up the way for many small violations throughout the country that will speed up the deterioration of the quality of the environment by altering ecosystems and protected areas. The system of direct personal defects will be glorified again, the legalisation of arbitrariness, the neo-Greek client state. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the environment has once been sacrificed for the sake of post-war reconstruction, with the stubbing up of events, the counter-comparison, the arbitrary construction, all in the name of economic development. But then, environmental consciousness was not as developed as far as today. The few voices of scientists, towns, sociologists were not listening. The political class of the time did not pay much attention to these warnings. The painful consequences of this violation, we paid them and paid them four decades later. However, the effects of the proposed legislative framework will not appear in a distant future, but, given the climate crisis, they will appear immediately. Today's political class has knowledge and tangible evidence of the consequences of this perception: Mandra, Matti, Halkidiki and everywhere in the country, in many places. The government no longer has an alibi to ignorance or innocence, so it has historical responsibility for withdrawing the bill and for having consulted the scientific community and environmental organisations, for a framework that strengthens and improves the existing environmental management system, as defined in international practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u211	Mr Dimitrios Economou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. The criticism made in the bill is two different types and it also has intermediate cases. One guy is ideological, on the basis of some ideological views. The other type is 'do black and white'. Obviously, these two approaches are not equivalent. I shall begin with ideological first. The following sentence has been clearly expressed by several speakers: capitalist development - or capitalist profit in another version - and environmental protection are not compatible, they cannot exist. I have made a small list of major environmental and industrial accidents over the last thirty years around the world. I will tell you, much you will know: Fukushima, 2011 in Japan. In 1957 in Mayak, Soviet Union, six thousand dead. In Texas, in America in 1947, an explosion in a tanker, five hundred seventy - six dead. In Chernobyl, in the former Soviet Union, it is not known how much losses are, it can be four thousand, it can be more. The Bankiao dam in China in 1975, a hundred seventy thousand dead. Arali Lake in the Soviet Union in 1950 was the fourth largest lake in the world and within thirty years - from 1950 to 1980 - had lost 50% of its extent due to overexploration and the extraction of rivers supplying it. Also, in 1982 in Baku, Azerbaijan, the Soviet Union, in Cuba, explosion of gasoline installations with the dead. Also in Bhopal in India, two thousand three hundred dead, in Iran, in China, in Gdansk in Poland in 1960 six hundred and eighty dead, in North Korea two of them, in the Democratic Republic of Congo, etc. So I understand that it is not the capitalist profit that automatically leads to the destruction of the environment and industrial accidents. This happens to all types of regimes that have been in the last hundred years and before. So another is the criterion and one cannot invoke the fact that it is the fault of capitalism or that it is the fault of someone else. What is to blame is inability, the willingness to take advantage of profit, whether it is capitalism private, whether it is state or anything else. However, it is not the capitalist profit automatically impossible to coexist with environmental protection. Who proves that? The European Union proves this first and foremost. The European Union in terms of environmental protection is the most advanced region on the planet. Not that he's excellent. Apparently there are mistakes. I mentioned the Seveso and there's more. But it's the best we've got in the world right now. There is room for improvement, but there is no one else that is more forward. What do they tell us now? We are told that we are bringing a bill that is counter-environmental, environmental and other, when in all its provisions this bill is either on the European Union's average around or above the European Union's average in terms of protection. Saying this thing is "environmental" is insane. You may object, you may disagree on specific things, but you cannot say 'environmental' something that is above the average of the European Union, which is the most advanced in the world. That's the first thing. A second point I would like to raise is that you are still moving - and we have said so many times - the same lie - and here I shall use the term 'false' - for the uses of land that we see in the protection areas. Firstly, we do not put them on land use. Law 1650 on environmental protection as from 2011 at least states: ‘Specific environmental studies define land uses in the environmental protection areas’. SYRIZA, with his assignments to scholars for specific environmental studies, writes in the contract that he entrusts them to use land and construction conditions. The Council of State, too, has often passed decrees or faced appeals in which it accepts that land uses exist everywhere, and in the NATURA areas that are 32% of the country. So what we are doing is in a context which today did not provide for any ban on use in protected areas, no one before the WORD, to come and put some further bans on use. The rest is a framework that says that the specific environmental studies that will come and will be approved by presidential decree from where to draw certain uses from. They cannot take the bans, but they can take them out, depending on the protected object. It's simple. Mr. Loverdos fully understood it and explained it in a better way than I did, I think. It's a use frame. It is another thing to determine the uses which are not done in this context, but which are done by the studies that follow the necessary procedures. Again, I would remind you that when the specific environmental studies and land use plans are finished, the presidential decree, when you want to do a specific activity, to place the protection area, the NATURA area, you have two more things for the particular investor or whatever it is, the manufacturer for example: And environmental study also needs an environmental and specific ecological assessment. All this so that you can do something in the NATURA regions. In any case, if one considers that in the NATURA areas first of all he can have residences, hotels, processing, community facilities, kindergartens, roads, etc., let him bring in a draft law and propose a draft law which says that in the NATURA regions, 32% of the country, including islands, municipalities, municipalities, settlements, are banned a priori. Because what we do is say what is forbidden a Priori. We don't say what's allowed. What will be permitted will be decided on by the study. We say a Priori is forbidden. If you are so critical of this, then bring us the fact that 32% of these things are forbidden. I'll enjoy it when I get up to agree or disagree. As for the Council of State, it is indeed positive that such good words are heard, but remember what the Council of State is. The Council of State is the same court which judged the memorials that dissolved Greece in constitutional terms, and it is the same court that judged the PSI that dismantled the insurance funds. And he must know, when he takes provocative decisions, that everyone is judged - even judicial decisions - and the final judge is the people and that, in any case, the legislative initiative belongs to the government which has been elected by the people to put a order in order. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representatives said that in 2016. That is the view that SYRIZA has on the Council of State. We do not have that view. We respect them, but to swear in favour of the Council of State those who have recently said these things three or four years ago will make it easier for us to do so, but I do not want to comment on it. And I will say one last thing in two minutes, Mr President. Something has been said by SYRIZA speakers, Mr Famello and perhaps others. I'm going to be a little technician because it's technical, but I have to explain it. Spatial and town planning have a hierarchy. There are those that are at national level, those that are in regional and local projects that are various urban projects. Legislation provides that there is a hierarchical relationship between the subject and the subject must follow the overriding planning, as is done around the world. What did Mr. Famelos tell us about? That we, by a provision we bring, say yes, the hierarchy is being held, but the feedback comes in. In other words, under conditions, the bottom-up project may exceed the above.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u213	Get over it, over it, overturn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u214	So I'm answering him that we're not telling him that. That's what Mr. 4447/2016 says. I told him exactly the articles, Article 5(5), if I remember correctly, and Article 6(5). It is said by the law brought by SYRIZA, who predicts just the feedback, that is, a process through which the bottom-up design can overturn it. He does this insane, however: he unilaterally instructs the Minister for the Environment to decide whether this will be permitted. So this is the current situation. Mr. Famelos obviously didn't understand. I see, however, in Sunday's 'SYN' the very opposite view of a protagonist of Law 4447 who knows what he's saying. He's blaming us again that what we're doing is enforcing the hierarchy. I would like to read it out to you: 'Heading in the planning system'. Mr. Famelos said that we put a "brick" on the hierarchical design system. The lady, who does not want to say the name, in "AUGY" - you can see it - denounces us that, with the same article, we overthrow the hierarchy of planning, not overthrow, but impose the hierarchy of planning because we are making the dominance of the project from above and below.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u215	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u216	Just a minute, Mr President, I will close what I say. You have to decide what you don't like from both. You may not like both. And finish with what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says. It's not the opposite. It says that what we bring and that somewhere is easier and makes clearer the contradictions of the law of SYRIZA should be more specific. Indeed, but because it's not a spatial bill, we'll specialize further. I think that these give a sense of the issues and the way you stand up for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u217	Thank you. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy. Let me remind you that the previous President-in-Office has proposed, if the House agrees, and I repeat it, that speakers should not come to the Step in the context of saving time. Because in order to be fired, as we've calculated, it takes a second. Put for twenty-five, about an hour's 'we' only eat' to decontamination. Of course, every colleague has the right to take the step, alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna use the Step because I have to make legal improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, today more than ever it is necessary to achieve sustainable development with respect for the environment, prosperity with an ecological mark, as the Prime Minister said earlier. The legislative initiative of the Ministry of the Environment is in this direction. The bill under discussion solves the huge problems arising from the sloppiness of ratifying forest maps, more importantly characterizing purely agricultural land as forests. This created tensions, added administrative disgrace to the services and cost many finances, as well as the often costly process of proving themselves, even Community aid was interrupted. The characteristic is the case of farmers in the villages of Farsalon, such as Agios Konstantinos, Kallithea, Pirgi, who have lost, for a second consecutive year, Community aid and, in fact, were at risk, if the law were not changed, to lose them, because their fields appear to be a grassland or forest land on the forest map, even though they have documents proving that they were in possession of land after the distribution of 1929. In order not to question the fields and grazing land after expropriations in Thessaly and Arta which were attached to the Greek state in 1881, we tabled an amendment to this effect with colleagues, I hope, Minister, to be accepted. Minister, I would like to welcome, of course, the regulation on the ownership regime in the brown-seed bulbs, which should not, however, be a half-timer. In recent years, brown-growing has had good prospects for the mountainous tumor of Kissavos. The main volume of production is exported. The main problem is the property regime with which chestnuts are cultivated within forest areas. Those who have concessions before 2014, which changed the law, are in trouble, since for bio-poor reasons in the mountain or semi-urban areas of Kissavos they have not retained their status as a principal farmer. The introduction of the provision in Article 102(5) correctly abolishes the restriction of the principal occupation of a farmer and constitutes, as I have said, a positive step towards resolving the major problem with the earlier concessions. Since, however, the multi-annual economic crisis was the main cause of the loss of status as a main farmer for the people of the poor hemi-tree and mountainous areas concerned with chestnut farming, there should be provision for the resumption of the concessions in question, or for those which have been withdrawn as a result of the loss of status as a principal farmer. And, of course, there is the possibility of moving them into their children, regardless of whether they are mostly farmers' jobs or not. Positive, too, is to facilitate the payment of the price of use in annual instalments, in accordance with your amendment, Minister. However, in order to continue the production process without hindrance, it is the request of the Kissavian cooperatives to reduce the price for the concession of the use of the plant and, above all, to promote those who prove by cultivation declarations, the payment of contributions to ELGA, that they cultivate chestnuts for years and are permanent residents of the county belonging to the brown parcel. Appropriately, they also ask for predictions to be made to allow structures serving the planting of the brown parcels, such as water tanks, PPC meters. I am making the relevant legislative improvements in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the direction of mild development with respect to the environment, the proposal for the resettlement and operation of the old slift, schino railway, near the refuge of the Hellenic Mountain Association of Larissa, in the mountainous volume of Kissavos is being moved. The arrangements of interest to the Larisa Mountain Club and the Tempus Municipality have been set, Mr. Minister, in the light of your partners, so that the licensing process can be completed, with the aim of operating for the small athletes and athletes of the club. I am presenting in the Minutes the relevant wording in terms of a legislative improvement to Article 102 and a technical report by the Larisa Mountain Society. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we all support the production of green energy, I would ask you to look positively at the amendment, number 283 and number 15, which we tabled for the further development of renewable energy sources with our rapporteur and other colleagues. I am referring to the possibility of developing new high-voltage substations and from RES stations on the initiative of producers, as distribution substations and medium-voltage networks have been saturated and it is not possible to connect new RES stations. On renewable energy sources, following the increase in the power price from the agricultural photovoltaics, I would like you to see, Minister, positively providing favourable incentives to many farmers for the installation of agricultural photovoltaics. Expansion of renewable energy sources to farmers is important, as it gives them the greatest energy self-sufficiency, which is valuable to reduce the high cost of production. Ladies and gentlemen, similar to forest maps is the suffering with the afforestation programme for agricultural land, which has provided environmental benefits, enabling the participants to plant areas with trees in exchange for Community aid. The programme proved to be problematic, as it was practically impossible to have the tree density foreseen per acre. With a road racing, just before the 2015 elections, we solved it with KYA 800/2015. However, they are exposed to those who had been checked and dismantled before it was adopted, and today they are invited to reimburse all the aid they received for the years they were in the programme. This is a human drama. To this end, I am tabling in the Minutes an amendment to the regulation which would definitively and irrevocably resolve the unresolvedness of many of our fellow citizens. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, Minister, I would like to invite you to speed up the change in the perforated institutional framework for water pollution in our rivers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I imagine you are also interested in this and I know that you are particularly interested in this. I'm talking about the contamination of the Titanic River from Elassona to Tirnavo. He's throwing his water into the River Penios. The answers I received in my successive questions through parliamentary control for contamination in the Titaresian river from waste business, such as rattles, which caused the protests of residents living in the Tyrnavos region and the villages of Potamia, indicate that "something rot is found in the kingdom of Danimarkia". It is characteristic that you have notified me of the Environment Department of the Region of Thessaly, which states, among other things, that there is no specific model for the submission of a fine, thereby making crises subjective. I repeat: subjectively! Do you realize the immorality and the complexity of it at local level, if there are no public officials or rulers with an increased sense of responsibility. So, Mr President, water pollution has a significant impact on the environment and poses serious health risks, I hope, Minister, that there will soon be an initiative to reform the institutional framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u219	The next speaker is Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios from the Change Movement. You and your position to speak, to save, as I said and repeat, the time needed to disinfect the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we have passed the first stage of our national test, a national test because of the coronary pandemic, and that is the most important one. The scientific community in Greece played a catalytic role. Beyond knowledge, he also showed reflexes and made us all, I would say, proud. Society, however, listened carefully to experts and scientists, and this is the most important one. So by recording today the fewest possible losses, with national unity, we have faced an unknown enemy that has cost hundreds of thousands of dead in other countries and continents. However, the risk remains. That's why we keep hearing the experts and the scientists. Besides, all of us's gratitude is given to those who really gave a titanic struggle and a great battle, unselfishly against pandemic. One good for all of these, for the scientists, for the ESS workers, for civil protection, throughout the human chain, who have served the public interest for forty-five days. But, ladies and gentlemen, the problems that have accumulated are too much and we are all experiencing another reality, new data. Here too, the government must respond to the new economic challenges, to the new data, as I have said. They must respond to work, where a new wave of unemployment comes, for banks that continue to require excessive charges from borrowers, for small businesses that have been left to their luck. Here it should be pointed out that a hundred and thirty thousand individual businesses did not have the arrangement of the repayable advance. He must answer to farmers and farmers who see their income collapse in the National Health System which was held up at this stage, but of course he needs brave support. What a powerful national health system means has proved to be a paradox. Many proposals have been tabled by our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, such as the work subsidy programme for the maintenance of jobs in affected enterprises, such as the support for all the unemployed, such as support for small and medium-sized enterprises with tax relief and sustainable solutions for checks and rents, such as the protection of first residence from auctions, such as advance payment of agricultural aid in May and income support to farmers and fishermen, such as the creation of a special action plan for tourism and entrepreneurship, to support workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the recovery wants brave decisions. Let us not forget that the pillar of growth is the business. And, indeed, it cannot be attempted to demonize and criminalize entrepreneurship, to criminalize human relations. That's unacceptable, not anything else. Let's get serious at last, because otherwise we won't get out of the middle of the crisis. The party crowns and the temporary benefits are no good, they are not major political controversy, because the geniuses do not make us out of the crisis. The country needs entrepreneurship, and this is the most important one. Because entrepreneurship support means jobs, it means fighting unemployment. Indeed, remembering what had happened ten years ago on Stadium Street at the Marfin bank, I would like to come and say that today we have ten years since that bad day. The violence, from wherever it comes, as other colleagues have said, is a critical one. But three people died of violent acts. However, the most important thing is that those who have barely taken three lives have not yet been found. They didn't find the killers, and that's the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, on the provisions. It is a fast track bill, without any consultation, on the major issue of the country's natural wealth, and that is why we have very serious disagreements. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law aims to modernise environmental legislation and environmental authorisations. Indeed, we are all talking about the fight against bureaucracy, which prevents growth and investment. However, the simplification of procedures, Minister, cannot negate environmental protection commitments which, unfortunately, are not complied with in the existing draft law. I would remind you that we have heard the bodies react to the vitalization of the NATURA regions. Minister, no one opposes the definition of land use in all areas. However, it should be stressed here that the provision includes uses which effectively cancel the entire operation and the characteristics of the protected areas. The NATURA areas are left unprotected and this is the essence of the matter. We say yes to growth, but with respect for the environment. Likewise, in the area of protected areas, you choose, gentlemen of the government, to establish a central management organisation, the FYROM. But you are effectively abolishing the existing management bodies and, in fact, neglecting their course and their work. And all this, of course, in the spirit of combating bureaucracy, as you say. But in this way, Minister, you are doing the state's centralisation to the detriment of decentralisation. Also, ladies and gentlemen, there are no arrangements for supporting small energy producers, small RES, small hydroelectric and energy communities. It should be made clear here, Minister, that modernising environmental legislation does not mean without support for small investment. That's what you keep. I come to an issue that has caused great reactions to the local communities of the Ionian islands and also to the Municipality of Aktio - Vonicas, Ioannina, my constituency. In particular, Article 73 establishes a special regional solid waste management body for the Ionian Islands Region. Here, Minister, it must be stressed, that this provision effectively abolishes cooperation between municipalities in the management of waste, endangering the financing of integrated projects in the NRP, without, of course, taking into account existing structures that are currently successfully operating. I mention features of the programme-based interdepartmental cooperation commitments of the Municipalities of the Coast - Vonicas and Lefkada. I also mention approved projects of the Lefkada waste management plant of EUR 10 million and the HYTY Paleros amounting to EUR 4.4 million. And here I ask you. What is the future of these works? Of course, I'm waiting for your answer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It should be noted that this provision has a comprehensive reaction from the Municipality of Aktiou - Vonicas, Lefkada, Lixouri, Argostoli, which, through decisions and resolutions taken on their municipal councils, calls for the withdrawal of the article. And I ask you: will you do this? So what do you say? Finally, I should like to refer to Article 123 of the bill on the rationalisation of the prices of agricultural photovoltaics. What should be of interest, above all, is equal treatment for all farmers. Therefore, it is necessary to extend the arrangement to the same photovoltaic stations, which have similarly been affected by the reductions of Law 4254/2014, which will operate from now on as professional farmers. I have tabled an amendment on this subject, and I would ask you, as accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u221	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u222	Finally, parties and environmental organisations, Minister, have asked for the withdrawal of the article for land uses of the Municipality of Athens and you have rightly done so and you have withdrawn it. It was our suggestion, too. To conclude, we are voting against the environmental bill at first for the six reasons I mentioned. The rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, has, moreover, been placed in a thorough and comprehensive manner in principle and on the articles, even by tabling a memorandum. We therefore call on you to take into account our memorandum, which has critical remarks in controversial articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u223	Mr Tagaras Nikolaos has the floor from New Democracy. A warm request to keep time, addressing all speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, today I am following the development of the debate on the environmental bill. I have heard positions of moderate and creative proposals. But I also heard total denials, complaints without proposals. You know, most of the disasters in the environment have occurred not with permitted activities, but with illegal activities, due to the lack of spatial planning and the definition of land use, of what is allowed and what is prohibited in each region, having, of course, the mechanisms for monitoring all those that we have in advance for them to apply in each region. I say this because we should not be afraid of what we are allowed to do in an area. All these years it was allowed, and everything was forbidden, and we got here! As far as protection zones and protected areas are concerned, because I have heard a great deal today, what has been said - both by the Minister and by other speakers, but also by other speakers - is that it is possible, through specific environmental studies, for a particular area to obtain uses from a use bank, which is defined in advance and limited rather than limited. This is the important aspect, which is, of course, about special protection for protected areas. I have heard that simplification and speeding up procedures means a loss of environmental awareness or environmental protection. Don't mess things up. Acceleration and simplification, using all the tools that our technologies give us today - electronic operation and digital policy - can provide opportunities. If we focus on what they really deserve - we have experience after the implementation of so many years - we can simplify and speed up procedures, giving the opportunity to those who are interested in being able to invest before they are disappointed and gone. Because many have been disappointed in the past and many investments we have lost. It is a pity to lose more, especially under these conditions of transition from an old regularity to a new normality, the result of the pandemic that the whole world is facing today. These are some of the remarks about extremism and complaints. Of course, I respect everyone's environmental sensitivity. But I do not recognise the uniqueness and monopoly of others. With regard to the issue - and I will put it again here - forest maps and settlements: I am sorry for SYRIZA's attitude, which brought, as a government, a bill to solve the problem of forest maps and settlements, a problem of decades, with many struggles and concerns for thousands of people throughout Greece, in our country. And the Council of State came and said, with regard to the suspension of forest maps, that the settlements had to be posted. It was one of the remarks. It was one of the issues of unconstitutionalism raised by the Council of State. At the same time, he asked for a more detailed reference to the definition of residential densification and more. Today, in response to the remarks made by the Council of State - which are others - the government must adapt, as is required, to bring an end to the process - the legality and constitutionality of the forestry maps, which must be final and precise, but also to address the problem of settlements in many areas of our country. And I hear the complete denial. So, the denial of these and the way out that had started when it was a government? Honestly, it makes me wonder. If there are any other proposals and positions that help to get away from the unconstitutional issues that have arisen, we are here to discuss them. And if they are better - I am not the Minister responsible - I think the government, through the relevant ministers, has no reason to do so. So, frankly, I wonder why, at least in this respect, we are not all together - those who agree - to give way to the matter of forest maps as well? We know that it is a prerequisite for the completion of the register, since it cannot be completed since the forest maps and the Forestry are pending. Why don't we find a common place? Why don't we make it better and safer if, in fact, we want a way out for so many people, with so many problems in society? As far as the others are concerned, I have heard about the simplification of procedures and procedures and the private certified assessors. It says, private evaluators enter. Why do building auditors, who are private engineers, through a list online, have no such function to release the building services due to the many and great delays? Don't they take on a cargo? No one's uncontrollable. Everyone's checked and certified. But they are outlets where it is possible today, through all this and the experience of the past, to simplify things and speed up procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to say any more, nor even to exceed time, while respecting the rest of the speakers. I appreciate, however, that instead of being negative of everything, let us help to relieve society of these problems on its back and which will be difficult the next day. And we all need to reach agreement and agree at least on the basics and basics, at least on what we say we want and make moves to show that we believe them and not to be negative of everything. With these remarks, I sincerely expect - particularly on the subject of forest maps and settlements - to listen to SYRIZA. I listened carefully to the Change Movement. Moderate and creative proposals - positions doesn't mean an agreement. Democracy also has disagreements. Through composition and disagreements, the best positions arise. But not just denials. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u225	The President of the Movement of Change, Mr. Fofi Gennimata, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, ten years will be completed by that opening day of May 2010. Three young people started to go to work and never came back. They have been lost forever on the altar of blind violence and intolerance. Ten years later, it is not enough, unfortunately, Prime Minister, to talk about the fact that this case must not be forgotten. It's not enough to put on a board. It is not enough to say 'never again' as much as we agree with all this. What is needed is to find the perpetrators, to make the case clear, because only in this way will we really defend the honour of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already spent the second phase of dealing with the pandemic. As I have said many times, this phase involves many risks. Apart from everyone's individual responsibility, it is now very much the government's responsibility to ensure that there are the conditions to keep us safe. It is encouraging that two of the very important proposals we have tabled for some time now, the proliferation of tests and mobile workshops, are finally beginning, even late, and are adopted by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill under discussion that comes to Parliament after the pandemic and the ratification of legislative acts. The bill highlights our fundamental political and ideological differences with the Government of New Democracy and environmental issues. It is no coincidence that the government is bringing it to Parliament in the middle of a pandemic, effectively avoiding wider dialogue. The bill has a headline for environmental protection and content of its degradation. Why? Because he opens houses for harmful uses. You spoke, Prime Minister, about developing without reductions in the environment, and the first you make is discounts in the debate on this issue. You chose to have a conversation about the mussels. Today, the Government of New Democracy shows that environmental protection and green development are empty words, it is a letter empty. With its bill, the New Democracy demonstrates that, first of all, energy democracy is in fact being counterbalanced. It favours only the large energy generation from the RES to the detriment of small and energy communities, contrary to the practices of other European countries, such as Germany, where 42% of the installed power RES belongs to households and farmers and only 5.45% belongs to the four major energy companies in the country. Here you promote exactly the opposite. And not only that, you are creating a system without transparent and equal rules, without security controls, and you are effectively decommissioning the Energy Regulatory Authority. Secondly, it returns the bill to centralised, hydrocephalic functions, depreciating decentralisation and local societies. You establish a centralized hydrocephalic organisation for the management of locally protected areas, removing the decisive reason from the local communities, even for the extractive work of hydrocarbons from areas belonging to the public and the OTAs. There is a pointless merger of management bodies without taking account of local peculiarities, but also islands, especially in the Ionian Sea and the Aegean Sea. Third, the country's natural wealth is threatened, as protection in NATURA areas is not ensured and windows are opened to harmful uses and activities with a risk of irreversible injuries in the country's natural environment. I would also point out that the withdrawal of Article 99, which attempted to create a tourist bubble by increasing hotel beds in the center of Athens, must be final, as our group has so far called for. Do not the Minister insist, as we understand, on bringing it back to next bills. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against this unacceptable bill. We are also voting against it for the overall logic that also applies to its dangerous individual provisions. Because for us the model of the reconstruction of our economy and society must be based on a green social contract aimed at sustainable development for all, with a right for everyone to invest in renewable energy. For many, and not just for the few and mighty. For the farmer, for the producer, for the energy communities, linked to the security margins and checks by the public regulators. Faced with the demand of local communities for environmental compliance by enterprises at each step and an increased social and environmental dividend. With their role strengthened in these procedures that guarantee the effective protection of our natural environment. You have come today, Mr Mitsotakis, to convince us that you are a pioneer in matters of sustainability and environmental protection. You avoid, however, saying that our prolongation is the first to put the concept of sustainable and green development in our vocabulary. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] That for the first time we have forged the constitutional protection of the environment in Article 24, the NATURA areas, we have guaranteed environmental protection in economic and investment activity, we have established a separate Ministry of the Environment. Even in the most difficult years of the economic crisis, we left our own seal with the establishment of the National Social Solidarity Fund to ensure the pensions of the new generations. Now is the time of actions and not of speech, it is the time of choice. You spoke of the need for investment. However, from the pit of SYRIZA in the planned immunity, environmental protection goes for a walk, gentlemen of the New Democracy. There's a long distance from what the place really needs. Instead of taking steps in the future, return to your well-known past with “day” customers and economic activities without rules. Your firm choice is not the final one, but the centralised state, where customer relations dominate and social control is drastically limited. The experience of the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, prepares us for an even more difficult future. The bell is ringing for the preparedness we have to show against the environmental and climate crisis. After all, pandemics relate to human behavior towards the ecosystem and natural resources. Greece needs another productive and development model that combines social and environmental progress. It will upgrade the quality of life of all of us in the center and in the region. It will exploit the quality of products and services and the skills of people. This is precisely the heart of the 'Project Greece' that we tabled in the previous elections. This is the modern notion shared by both European and international organisations from the objectives for the sustainable development of the United Nations to the European Green Agreement, the European Green Deal. The latter has the seal of the forces of progress, the European Socialists and Democrats. Because we do not understand our relationship with the environment in terms of short-sighted ones, as a field for deregulation in terms of exploitation and enrichment of a few, with investments of dubious quality and a deterioration in the quality of life of today and of the next generations. That is why when we are all talking about intergenerational solidarity it is good to remember that we have no right to deliver the environment to our children in a worse situation than the one we received from our parents, Prime Minister. So today's bill is a monument of short-sighted and overconservative perception for tomorrow. It reflects the prism through which you and your like-minded, inside and out of the border, see the tree and not the forest. It continues the practices of the previous government, which were accurate in the pit and cheap in the flour! It reminds us of the limits between maintenance and progress, the border between those who are envisioning a strong, creative, green and fair economy and you who want to safeguard the interests of a dangerous, short-sighted and unfair one for the many exploitation of our natural wealth. We are across the street because our opponents are conservative policies in the economy, society and the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. We continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate many Members felt the need to make a reference to what we have been through in recent weeks and which we continue to take the attitude of the citizens on the days of incarceration. In fact, many have pointed out that as a society we are dating more forcefully. However, the question, ladies and gentlemen, is on what basis - and rightly so - this self-discipline of the citizens, a self-discipline in which all the political forces contributed to it and credited, of course, and the government, because it has listened to the experts, has been able to get the signal from our neighbour Italy and there have been no tragedies. So the National Health System was not tested. So we had to take advantage of this time to shield it, if any, if any, of a second wave, the non-genus. We haven't heard anything specific about it. There are no commitments. And I fear that the way to return to this specific normality is done without giving free masks to the world, when they are mandatory, without having tests targeted at the extent to which we can secure them and without having a specific commitment to shield public health. Opposition with its own contribution and mature attitude is also believed in this spirit of self-discipline and the rest of the Opposition, and Medieval and Elasson. But be careful. I also see some attempts to indulge in this attitude and translate it as appropriate. I hear about trying to talk about how Greek society comes out more powerful and how we all need to unite forces. To what exactly do we join forces? Shall we join forces in what the current government is working on the day after the pandemic? Shall we join forces in reducing wages, in rotating work, at the same time, which is causing this bill, as far as the hydrocarbon company is concerned, to increase the wages of the Golden Boys - and you do it to all the ECHO - when we know that half an hour is going to be working for half an hour next month and some people will have lost their jobs? Why so challenging? Why so much analgesia? So this is where we're going to join forces? Is this where we're going to come up with an understanding? Is that what you think it's like? No way. Is there any chance that we can reach agreement on the basis of the content of today's bill? Is there anything to do with the retsindo? None. None at all. So the contents of this bill with environmental protection have absolutely nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a common denominator between the climate crisis and the health crisis, and it must concern us. Who's that? That both want intervention not only in a national context, but at a global level. Both demand that we do not leave the resolution of this crisis to the blind market forces, namely the extreme neoliberalism, which has fuelled and given birth to these crises. And they are combined for another reason: because the climate crisis as a result of today's productive model, the neoliberal globalised model, which considers the environment to be something consumable, has also fuelled the health crisis itself. The pandemics of recent years have been related precisely to the violent way in which the production system itself intervened, in particular serving interests in closed ecological systems, releasing new viruses. Are we watching this? Because it sounds all over Europe. Here, nothing. Here we know only hypocritically how to applaud the people on the front line when we refuse to pay them overtime. And I'm talking to the doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, the pillar of environmental policy is environmental licensing. This is essentially the protection tool, this is the tool for implementing a policy. And this is blown into the air, you literally empty it by taking responsibility from public authority and giving it to private valuers. Why? Where and where? If it is an option for us to build strong public audit organisations licensed, and most of all now at this stage where the public sector needs to have an interventionist, essential role in health, education, the environment, why not shield the services with worthy scientists and give it to certain evaluators, by removing public authority from the most competent, who is the Ministry of the Environment? Of course, for the Ministry of the Environment a minority position is reserved on the environmental council, which will judge certain cases if they are licensed in the CSDP as a minority. Should we turn it as the Department of Development? Imagine Mr. Georgiadis taking responsibility for the matter of environmental licensing, Mr. Georgiadis, who in Zakynthos in relation to the shipwreck, the emir trespasser who came through a guy named Charos and violated public property, said: “What should we do? The investor's right. We'll change the legislation." This is what you are declaring today that the law is the law of the investor, not to mention the environment. That's what you're doing. And that comes out in an extreme way when you say that the revision of environmental licensing must not be made public. Do you think that is how you will bypass, by taking out such photographic provisions, the problem with "ELDORADO GOLD"? I tell you, Minister, that you know that you have a special relationship and a special sensitivity to the issues of the «GREENIK FRYS». You consider that you will bypass S.H.I.E.L.D.'s recent decision.Huh? You've called them on the basis of S.H.E.'s last decision. or selectively are the decisions of the S.H.E., tell them that they have breached their contractual obligations? Isn't that what you're interested in? Do you think that with stunts and such provisions you will override this matter? Do you think that it is in line with a concept of decentralised operation that you are doing in relation to the management bodies of the protected areas, which you are taking them completely from the local forces? Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 as Minister for the Environment and Energy, representing the government, I gave it a fight and I won it in relation to public networks. I'm referring to IPTO. What didn't the Troika, who was defeated, come and do it as a backdrop, serving the deception of what? When the networks throughout Europe are today trying to re-stabilize them, you say about IPTO, the profitable IPTO, who has a strategic investor in a minority, who implements the largest electrical interconnection project in Crete - Attica and you want to give it to these economic crisis conditions. This is not just neoliberal dogmatism, it is an open undermining of public interest. If you think SYRIZA will leave it that way, you're laughable. This is also addressed to potential investors and to you. You'll be answerable because you're going to sell the public property.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u229	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u230	The last thing - and I conclude, Mr President - is that a great deal of truth has been said by the Prime Minister today, which I endorse. Another world is possible, except that this other world passes through the defeat of your policy, through the withdrawal and non-implementation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u231	Mrs Fotini Pipili has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, because they are constantly being heard by this Chamber of such populist and dangerous to society about the free mass use of the mask, because it is not possible for the family budget to be tolerated and we also have a people who have in the past in one part of it, unfortunately, been persuaded by these populisms - of course, after which I would like to say, as a woman, and who have not lost the basics of what economics mean, that there is a simple way of sewing women and some men at the raft of their neighborhood, who go for the zipper and the button, to order five verbs of textile masks - finally with populism! - unless some in here serve mass sales interests with the Greek taxpayer's money in masks! It doesn't explain! Let's get to my point. I am proud of my government, and I trust it, and I vote for this bill, because as the Prime Minister rightly said, it was from the outset, from yesterday I would say it now - Mrs Mendonis as Minister of Culture of the Mitsotakis Government in two months' time she solved the issue and the two floors came down to the hotel in Plaka, when the previous government did not want to ferment for four and a half years. The Prime Minister, therefore, is convinced that part of the Greek people - and the Minister, yesterday, has said so - are 'green'. They took the daring and said 'Lignite end, the three units in 2023' - in two years, that is, about - 'and one will close in 2028'. So there is an urgent need for Greece finally to move on where Europe has gone years to the RES. Here, then, is a question for me that I respect and have worked together in the past with many serious ecological companies and bodies: why, you guys, this total refusal of 'not all'? I mean, I'm surprised they didn't find one, two, three good points. I am not telling you, there are objections - I know - about the RES to discuss them. But in the forests - which I remind you are valuable, they remain and are strengthened - there will not be the uncontrolled master - a good time - which in 2017 - I say again - set the runway for the Greek land as a forest, all of this ends. And, in any case, the master is a state official. Mrs Helen, Mr Babis, but also the Minister and the Ministry of Culture, asks him: 'My Christianity, you can answer us in a reasonable time if this is a forest or is not'. The master, of course - there also covers him from the Public Service Code - will say his opinion, "it is forest". Tell her, man, and don't trouble so many years a hundred and seventy thousand owners who suddenly pulled them out, because he hadn't answered if it was or wasn't for the last fifty years and took them out in the woods. So this 'no' to everything, which concerns me, makes me sad - I repeat, because I respect some of the organizations - and even snore at me, because I say that here all is heard freely in this House, we are told'serve interests of great-workers'. 'Nice', I'm telling you, and I'm replying: do some ecological organizations also serve study offices - I say the innocent - because the study offices don't go with the windmills, but I do - I know - with the sun collectors? I can't understand it. I'm asking the question. I don't expect an answer, it's rhetorical. In other words, they say 'no' to not all throw the balls at the streams, the bridges, the pavement, the squares and I mean the ecological organizations. We have also been clarified by the Ministry in all tones - it is also an amendment, as far as I know - that nothing will happen if the rules and directives are not strictly followed by Europe, and also by the Greek Government and local regions. There will be no investment of this kind unless it has exhausted all environmental conditions. And the amendment says: 'You have money and money' - because they are big companies that will do the RES, and because life is twenty years, they don't stay in the adventurous like the Parthenon - 'You are now signing, what you have built it down there and re-establishing it as the natural precedent'. Should I remind Anabra Magnesia, who I as a journalist then and others were running and applauding, who was the village model all over the world, who first put on wind turbines and emerged all social and economic wealth? Or should I remind Mrs. Duru's Keratea? Or should I remind you - as I said - of the delay in the 'COSTA NAVARINO', where various actors have participated from those who are now annoyed, who, from thirty-six to twenty-four, are financially strengthened by the State and environmental charges? And yet, there are ecological organizations that say 'we, why the thirty-six?'. Because, my Christianity, ten of them were only a seal that did nothing else but intervened for other evil purposes - which I can say if I am summoned by the prosecutor - in various local interests. To finish, then, when the first hydroelectric dams were made - again as a journalist - and we heard the frustrations that it is a disaster for the environment, it will cause earthquakes, it drowns villages. We all enjoyed it. Corinthias Prefecture became a tourist player from an E.R.D.A. reservoir to the lake and we all go to Glory. Then the inhabitants also found, because it spoils the environment and now they all drag and they all pay to see the artificial reservoir in a wonderful natural environment. And so to finish, because we all go abroad and I hear that Greece will lose tourism from wind turbines, because they spoil the landscape, all countries love their landscapes, all countries have landscapes. Other mountains, other meadows, other camps, other islands, other seas. I did a careful collection and I show it to the Greek people who are watching us - to see that goats are not sterilised, as some people - from all over Europe and from countries that have models, from residential areas that are of high tourist interest in Germany - please - from the sea. Do you want to see the sea, as many North European countries have done, yes or no? Answer me! Also here, here environment, village, wind turbines, here sea, here sheep that have not been sterilized - strange! - and get the last of a German town. So we need to find an end with respect for the environmental conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u233	Yannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 104 of the bill, revenues from the special fee paid by producers of lignite electricity - a fee of EUR 1,40 per MWh - are used to finance infrastructure, development and environmental protection and relocation of settlements of Arcadia, Kozani and Florina. That's what the bill says, and that, of course, often uses government propaganda. The reality, of course, in these regions is very different. The future of the relocations of the affected villages is uncertain and a number of infrastructure projects - watering, sewerage, immobilization, lighting - have not even begun in the new settlements of Pontokomi, Mavropigi, Comannos, and even the expropriation of the settlement of Akrini remains. And as if not all of this is enough, PPC S.A. comes today and claims to get back 50% of the compensation paid to the inhabitants of Mavrobi and 10% of the compensation paid to the inhabitants of Podtokomi. In relation to the constantly proclaimed restorations of mining land, these restorations continue to be in the air, creating an additional problem for the environment. As far as the remaining part of the same article, the fourth article, is concerned, organisational issues are being regulated to promote the so-called 'fair development plan of the lignite regions by and after defoliation'. This is where we need to stand a little more. Even if there are today the difficulties of pandemic, which the government itself often invokes, the designs of the government, which are, of course, the designs of monopolistic groups in the energy sector, go hand in hand, without accounting for the consequences for the people and workers, as, you see, the profits of monopolies must be guaranteed in all circumstances. You would say that for the people of western Macedonia, it is not enough for the coronary pandemic, for which it pays a heavy tax, but is now threatened by a new labour and social pandemic, which is rapidly spreading from government policy to "degreeisation". This frustration is a strategic option for the European Union in all its member countries, of course not to protect the environment - this is the pretext - but to accelerate the investments of billions of euros by the 'green' monopolies in electricity production. The pretexts, of course, as we said, have already been found. In the name of climate change and so-called environmental protection, all lignite power plants and mines are closed by 2028 at the latest. Units I and II of the AIA Heart have already been closed, while soon they close the Amynteios mine and the AIA of Amynteios. However, the government flares as well as crocodile tears of the great capitalist environment can hardly hide their hypocrisy, since at the same time all of them curse lignite, do you know what they then propose as an alternative to Western Macedonia? The carcinogenic combustion of waste, namely the conversion of Western Macedonia into a vast gas chamber. As for the so-called 'just transition fund', this is, in fact, a new round of thick subsidies to business groups to ensure new areas of profitability. You see, not everyone goes to the same place, Minister. Some business groups move from one level of profitability to another greater and even to the state guarantee, while the workers and the people of the region and the country move to the level of energy poverty, tolerance and labour jungle. One would say - and it would be right to say so - that this infamous liberation is nothing but the transformation, the updating of the liberalisation strategy. All of them, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, moved this liberation of energy from the state's bonds, as they said, when with PPC's relocation and haircut, when with the strategic investor, when with the small PPC, when they put out in the hammer for the sale of lignite units and when they set up energy communities. So, as they have been involved in liberation, they are now conducive to liberation. Where did all this sirial lead to all this liberation work? In increasing the electricity price for people's households, in losing thousands of permanent and stable jobs, in hitting the labour rights of workers in the industry, to say the main thing. The same and worse will be done with defoliation. The'marble' will be paid again by the people and the region, as a whole, only to win some business groups. Now for all these charming, constantly heard about dialogue with the local communities, about ensuring social cohesion, and so on, they are heard and, of course, they are aiming, as always, at enclosing the labour, the people's movement in "slash me, my dear, to sanctify", seeking to eliminate the people's fair reactions, to consecrate him and why not, if they succeed, to make him an accomplice. Already the people of western Macedonia lived in this winter, which has just finished the first consequences of ligniteification, when they saw several lignite plants coming out of the system for various reasons, whether adequacy or maintenance, or why they were permanently withdrawn. Thus, with only small amounts of heat load available, several families experienced some stigmas from the cold future of the post-lining era. Some people, of course, have already taken measures, such as the Municipality of Amyntaios, which has already increased the heating tariffs by 30%, please! The same is the case in Kosani and Ptolemais where the ground is set for future increases in tariffs, as the adequacy of the district heating system requires the burning of thousands of tonnes of oil, which eventually sooner or later the cost will be passed on to consumers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need less than a minute. Here is what it means, frustration, spread energy poverty, increases in district heating tariffs, lost jobs, hitting industrial relations through the so-called'special economic zones' for work, as in the gala, environmental damage through the burning of waste and large, very high priced electricity. Any compensatory amounts are just the cheese on the face. Immigration will again find the people lost and won the large groups of energy. What if there's a way out? Of course there is! This is the JRC's proposal that safeguards energy product as a social asset instead of a very expensive commodity that is now, exploiting all, but all without exception, the domestic energy sources, as well as any technological development for environmental protection. You see, as soon as the capitalist profit that has been so passionately defended by the Undersecretary is out of the way, it all becomes easier for the popular majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr Voloudakis, before I give you the floor, I will give Mr Georgiadis the floor to support an amendment. Immediately afterwards I will give the floor to you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u236	I may not need them, Mr President, because this is a very simple thing. What I want to say is Amendment No 292. In view of the fact that COVID and the whole process of economic hardship, many municipalities, who have made various development agreements with the old companies and legal persons to whom the municipalities are always majority, have been able, within this period, to complete the agreements they have made and not to pay paper and other taxes in favour of public and all kinds of contributions in favour of third parties other than capital taxes and VAT. They call, in other words, for the legal persons belonging to the municipalities to be relieved, in the implementation of their various development agreements, of taxes to the Greek State, in order to encourage them to make these agreements faster and to make agreements now and not to glean for too long. I think that this demand is reasonable, because we must give everyone, as we do in private businesses, and we give them various kinds of obligations so that they can get ahead, in the same way, of giving the municipalities and municipal companies such an incentive. We are therefore giving it up and putting an end to it by 30 June 2020, so that it will have the incentive to do so now and to end the agreements and to make the various jobs that are provided for by the municipalities in their business plans. It is only about companies - it writes it in - which is always a majority of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Hatzidakis, do you want the floor for legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u240	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u241	All right, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, it is another package of legislative improvements. One was submitted to committee, one yesterday, one now and one more time later, and we close. This package has thirty-five legislative improvements. Among these are again some related to the Parliamentary Scientific Service and the observations he has made. For example, one for renewable energy sources, point (b) of paragraph 5 of Article 11. You'll see. We also have another amendment to Article 92 in relation to the landfills, where temporary placement is limited from five years to three years. Personally, my assessment is that these two are the most important, but there are others. You will see them and have time to study them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u243	All right, all right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u244	To make it easier for the House, Mr President, I would like to say that the Government accepts the amendment of a general number 282 and a number 14, tabled by Mrs Zetta Macroy, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos and Mr George Stylion, concerning an amendment to Rule 48 of the draft law. The Government accepts the amendment by a general number 283 and a special number 15 of the Members of Parliament, Mr Giannis Economou, Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis and Mr Stratou Simopoulos, in relation to the promotion of high-voltage substations by RES stations. The Government accepts the amendment under a general number 284 and a special number 16 tabled by Mr Stamenitis and Mr Simopoulos to speed up examination of RES applications. The government accepts Amendment No 285 and number 17 tabled by Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis and Mr Giannis Economou on the combinations of assurances. The government accepts Amendment No 286 and number 18 tabled by Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis concerning the priority of amendments to mature projects. Finally, the Government accepts Amendment No 287 and number 19 tabled by Mr Vassilis Yoyakas in relation to the addition of Article 57 of Law No 998/1979. Six amendments by colleagues in total, these are acceptable to the government and we are closing the matter with the parliamentary amendments. Wait for us just the last package of legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u245	The legislative improvements that you mentioned before. Good. Please, Minister, submit the legislative improvements to the Minutes to be distributed to the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u246	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u247	Warm request, Minister, the next legislative improvements should be as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u248	Do you want me to mention the ministers accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u249	You mean the ministerial amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u251	For the need to record the Minutes, you state that you are obviously accepting them. That's to record.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u252	Obviously we are accepting both amendments which were debated today, one which Mr Chardalias spoke about about two hours ago and one on which Mr Adonis Georgiadis spoke just now. I say this for the Minutes, to make it clear what the government does not accept and what the government does not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, do you have a question with the Minister on what he referred to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, very briefly a question to Mr Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u255	You have the floor for a minute. Please too soon so we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u256	Mr Georgiadis, there is an issue with the transnational development companies and the question is whether they are included in this amendment or not. In these, as you can see, there are cases where some municipalities are majority against others. They are interstated. That's what's critical. And a question to Mr Hatzidakis about the SMAs. I imagine it's part of the 92 you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u258	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u260	As we've written, they're OTAs I' and Grade 2, I repeat OTAs I' and Grade 2, where they have the majority of OTAs. I do not see why the public should be excluded. Including. Why should they be excluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u261	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u262	Where it's a majority of grades I and II. So the popular ones too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u263	There are links to ten municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u264	I know them. That's what I'm saying. I am expressing our political will to make it clear that - it is the way we write it - we mean where it is a majority of OTAs I and II, so all of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u265	Even against others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u266	All of it! As long as the OTAs are a majority, we said. We always talk about primary school.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u267	Well, the explanations have been given. We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the general spirit of this bill is expressed - I believe - by the need to protect the natural environment, at the same time as attracting investment in the place. Both these needs are now pressing in our place, and it is indeed surprising that the responses of certain colleagues and certain factions are being made. Does anyone doubt that it is necessary to speed up the procedures in Greece with regard to the approval of investments in the adoption of environmental conditions? Is there someone who's happy with the current situation? The long-term processes that exist, the complex processes do you think have led to a positive result for the environment? Let's just say you don't care about the investment side. From what you see as an environment, are you satisfied? I can't believe you can say that. Talking about speeding up, there is a lot of talk about private investment. However, I will refer to a public which is definitely one of those that will benefit from this bill. Perhaps some colleagues have become tiring to hear me talk about the BOAK, but Crete is the only periphery of the country that still has no motorway. This draft law speeds up the procedures whereby the studies will be approved. The BOAK is in these categories of projects for which the Minister spoke from yesterday and the committee, for which approval of environmental studies in many cases reached six years or more. In the procedures established by this bill, the procedures will not exceed 50 days. I read from what is summed up by the stages, which the bill provides for. This simplification in this case is necessary, Minister. But you will allow me to say that this is not the most perfect law. I know your sensitivity, because you are from Crete too, but soon I will believe that you will have to create a task force at the Ministry, which will especially monitor the environment of the BOAK. The Ministry of Infrastructure has undertaken that within the year the studies of its own competence are over, so it will then come to you by the end of the year, beginning 2021, anyway. It will come to the Ministry of the Environment to complete the studies and to be able to fulfil the objective announced for the proclamation of the project in 2021. I am sure you will do everything you can in this direction. I have already mentioned to you since yesterday, and I will then table a proposal for a legislative improvement on a point that I think we can do even better and faster, by removing some discreet wishes that do not need to be present. A lot of things can be solved automatically on the basis of the principles of this law. There has been a lot of talk about the NATURA regions, and I am truly surprised at the extent and intensity of the distortion that some colleagues from Anti-Policy, especially on the part of Officerial Response, are using to criticise this bill. In the NATURA areas, there have always been some economic activities. It is terrible that SYRIZA is making this unprecedented today: it blames the government for doing what SYRIZA himself has done. When SYRIZA granted rights to extract hydrocarbons in NATURA areas, it did so well. When much stricter conditions are laid down to monitor the procedure for the same thing by this law, it is bad. I think there should also be limits, ladies and gentlemen, to the consistency of words and works. In any case, throughout Europe, there are some activities that are permitted in the NATURA regions. And quite rightly in this bill - and I say this because it also has a special importance for Crete and my country, Chania - the NATURA regions are not being abolished or anything like that. Four areas are being created in the NATURA areas, the first being the protection of absolutes, the one to which, for example, they will be integrated, and the canyon, the Samaria national park, in which the framework is now more stringent than it was. So let no one rush to create false impressions. Let's stop the ecological specula, I'd say. Now, with this bill something else is important: there is a start in regulating the chaos of the process created by forest maps. One hundred and seventy thousand applications all over the country. I heard the Minister's calculation yesterday. At the same time as the committees, they would have liked twenty-seven years to deal with the objections. For us in Chania would be a little worse in proportion, I suppose, because of the hundred and seventy thousand objections, we have three and a half thousand in Chania, without having even posted forest maps for the whole prefecture, except for the periphery. Well, this bill now corrects the distortion created by the previous government and, indeed, which was judged as unconstitutional by the Council of State. And here again we see the amazing: of SYRIZA, the presidential decree is seen as unconstitutional by the Council of State. The correction of unconstitutionality is coming today by SYRIZA to call it an anti-constitutional, anti-environmental, and I don't know what else. At the same time, Minister, since we are talking about forest maps, you should see an issue which at least in Crete has a very large dimension: an issue is the designation of the region as forest or not, which is now being facilitated and which will all go much better. But that's not the end of the matter. We have the big issue, the property. You need to see the process by which these issues will eventually be decided, which forest is public, which is private, which grass is public or private, because we have, especially in Crete, a development of mountain farming in areas that are used as private generations. There may be some loopholes in the legislation, which have not been properly dealt with by the association of Crete with Greece. We've been talking so old. But that is what we have to solve today. Last and very brief reference on the question of PV in the non-interconnected islands. You know that I am one of those who say that there must be a halt to the rate of expansion of RES for economic reasons primarily and environmental reasons in some cases - I said yesterday in detail - but what has been settled today must be treated by the state fairly and equally. You are making this correction - and you are right to make - for the agricultural photovoltaics, Mr Minister, you must extend it to the photovoltaics of the non-interconnected islands, because this category has indeed been wronged. In any case, we will discuss these again and then. I don't have any more time. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Vlachos will be followed by the New Democracy, and then we will give the floor to the State Secretary, Mr Gerasmos Thomas. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Because I believe that we should not be simple process handlers, I would like to start a little differently. We were students when we were shocked by a film by the "Dershu Uzala" of the great Akira Kurosawa, where he showed the harmonious coexistence of a man, grandpa, who lived alone in a hut in the woods, who had reached the point of wild animals to go when they were injured in his cabin, he himself when he saw a tree injured to care for it and at some point he got sick and took him to the city, snatched, because it was unnatural his stay outside the natural environment. A tangible proof that there must be harmonious coexistence between humans and the environment. In the present case, there were two articles that had been provoked by this paragraph, Article 16 and Article 24, to harmonize them. One was about education - but it is not time for me to deal with it - and the second was about the environment. Today, then, this article was given the opportunity for New Democracy to do so. Before I say anything, I want to remind you that the man of capitalism, the 'FINANCIAL TIMES', in a recital of real environmental sensitivity, directly admits that we have been wrong for forty years and we need to review our environmental policy. More important, however, is that the patriarch of extremist neoliberalism, Milton Friedman - has left time, of course - had given an interview before he left, where he honestly said the following. I have in front of me a mot exactly what he said ten years ago in this interview in a magazine. "I would only say to you three words..." said Milton Friedman, who you all know is, "...privateisations, privatisations, privatisations." At a recital, however, raw sincerity in this interview he said: “I made a mistake. The rule of law is more important than privatisation and markets." I'm closing this parentheses. I would now like to remind you, because I saw the Minister, who is usually small, irritated because the Qualificational Opposition does what he has to do in parliament, criticise, I want to believe in good faith. It is not wrong to disagree in this Chamber, as long as we have arguments. I'm the last person to say we did everything nice and infallible. No, we made mistakes, we were first-timers and he went by saying. Today, however, it is our sacred obligation - we have proved this in the crisis, I myself to be misunderstood, only made proposals, no criticisms for a month and a half - we have a sacred obligation, if we think something is wrong, to criticise it in order to correct it. I would like to remind you, therefore, that it is no coincidence that of the dozens of environmental organisations only the BSE, the Greek Industrial Association and the Mining Enterprises Association have been found to support this bill. Hold that. Keep that of the hundred thirty articles, consultation took place at eighty - two. The rest came and added. So important a bill that the Prime Minister did well and came here, and I imagine the Chief of Police will also be here, sixty articles in secret and violating, no one has spoken with anyone? I will not dwell on what has been heard - too much - in this Chamber. I explain: Environmental impact studies will be audited by individuals appointed by the investor. Transparency in all its majesty! The road opens for quarries, for hotels, for hydrocarbons mining - hold this - in NATURA areas. In fact, this famous Mining Business Association proposes that mining activities should not be excluded from the nucleus of the protected areas. Such truthfulness! They supported you. You may have been supported by someone else who may have escaped me, but they won't be more than one or two. Because the whole - not only the Citizens' Counselor, not just the GEOTE - dozens of environmental organisations were against you. I don't think there was any psychosis against the bill. I don't have much time. I know I won't get enough. It's okay. Wherever it reaches me. If the President shows me any tolerance, it's good. I would like to remind you that we have all experienced the following events that many of them are late. We saw Bolsonarus, a strange president in Brazil, indifferent to the 4/5 of the Amazon that has been burned. Four-five of the planet's lung. We saw Australia burn. We saw Alaska burn. We saw Siberia burning. We saw Chernobyl, with which a whole planet was at stake, because some are systematically investing in profit. We still saw the Seveso. We saw cholera in Haiti. We saw epidemics of the type Ebola, SARS. We've seen things. The messages were a lot. But I don't care. And we came to today's reality that few had imagined it. I see a relaxation in this Chamber, as if it didn't last a day when we were all terrified at our house. And if it hadn't happened what happened in Italy, we wouldn't get together. The government's fighting for doing everything well. I haven't criticized her, and now I'm not going to. But I am telling you very well that some people who the National Health System followed it in here every day and suggested incredible things, blushed. We have therefore seen that the public health system - and that is good - has been supported by everyone. If it's based on honestly or hypocritically, I don't know. Here, too, I would like to say what is of great importance and I shall invoke it. Every day, a country four times like Switzerland burns and we sit and look. In 2100 the water sources will be minimal. Today, we speak, some in Africa walk three and a half days to drink a water. Another billion people on the planet will not have access to clean water. And two billion won't have electricity. I've got a lot of evidence like that. But I will tell you not to long away that Oxfam, which is a reliable non-governmental organisation, has given the following figures for years. Eighty-four people on one side, half a poor planet, three and a half billion on the other. The assets of eighty-four are equivalent to the assets of half the poorest planet. That's not injustice. It's perversion. Extreme capitalism, oligarchy of the few that leads to mathematical accuracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u271	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u272	Mr. President, I know. My time's up. If you give me a little bit, I'll appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u273	I gave you a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u274	There's nothing I can do. I would like to say this. I have all the good intention of really believing that you, too, believe in green development. But to believe you must have credibility in what you say. And I've been thinking a lot of choices lately in the last month. Diamantar in fake resumes? The trampling of the Ausgeus that we're holding him? Brutsi's trampling? The change of seven Ministers, the change of the ministry that we brought back and went by saying? The tolls on the vouchers? What should I first remember? The toll on the masks lately? The fact that you gave the first instalments to the unscrupulous canals, from 3.5 million to 21 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u275	Come on, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u276	That you gave the media over 19 to 20 million in the media about "Home House" while you had to do it for free? These are tangible proof that your credibility is suffering. So I would ask the Minister not to get upset because we made mistakes. But one thing we never did. And if we did, blame us very well and directly. We didn't touch, we didn't toll anywhere on any of what's called public money. I shall conclude, Mr President. The long Kisinger - I don't need to tell you what he did - recently invoked the Enlightenment. Kisinger lives for those you don't know. He said we need to change something. Enlightenment is Jean Jacques Russo, the man who said that nature punishes those who violate nature's rules. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u277	Mr Georgios Vlachos has the floor from the New Democracy. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u278	Yes, Mr President, to buy time. Thank you very much. To begin with, I apologise to my fellow Members for the interruption or intervention earlier in the speech of the President of the Greek Solution. I thought - not just that he exaggerates, but at the end it is his right and everyone has the right to say his views - that he falsifies what we heard yesterday. It is very miserable in this party controversy to level everything and put the words of scientists into this mill of confrontation. It's over and out. I wanted to make it clear. I'm coming to the second thing I wanted to say. On the occasion of and in the presence of the Secretary-General, Mr Grafakos and the Ministers, I would like to thank him for the acceptance of the Marathon Municipality's request and for the acceptance of a waste transhipment station, which will be included, as the Minister and the Secretary-General said, in a subsequent bill, since it was not possible at this stage. I think that in about a month's time this issue will be resolved and will give the historic Municipality of Marathon a satisfactory solution. I'm coming to a next topic that has something to do with forest maps. You are all aware of the region of stopping, ladies and gentlemen. It's a settlement before 1923. But in this settlement - Stop, Old Stop, Spata Stop, Spatajiki - there's never been a delimitation. We don't have the boundaries of the settlements, so now that the maps are up, this area looks forest, and if it's a settlement before 1923. These are the forest maps that Mr Famelos was proud of and struggling for that maps would be at risk and the job would be wasted. Do we understand what we're going to post? Where maps are posted, people cry. I have an area in eastern Attica that, by posting the maps part of the industrial area is forest. How much do you think? Four hundred and five hundred meters. Just to trouble people. Within thousands of acres. That's the point. These forest maps, therefore, with their suspension, have enclosed industrial areas, houses, fields, farms, property, and we are sending the citizen to seek his point of view. The world can't stand it anymore. So, instead of all agreeing and saying to simplify the procedure, to discuss together these objections and to give solutions, we are starting the miserable approach: who did it, because he did it. What are we going to tell the people of Stop? Minister, I want you to commit to this. I don't know if you can get a solution today. I have cards from the Municipality of Dionysus in 2014 and 2015 -- there may also be recently - asking for the Ministry of the Environment, because the papers have been deposited... Excuse me, I'm going from one theme to the other. There has been an administrative act of the prefect since 1997 and a decision by the municipality since 2002 on the proposed limits. There's an envelope in the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment doesn't respond. I have a letter to the government of New Democracy in 2014 and to the government of SYRIZA in 2015, which the municipality beggs for the demarcation of the settlement and did not receive. We arrived in 2020 and this famous administration you were telling us is deaf, and there is a danger now, tomorrow morning, that property by posting the maps will be inside the forest maps. And we'll tell this world to go to give the paradox and make an objection and "father from the beginning" to prove that it's the owner of his property. What property? His property before 1923. These are crazy things. Mr. Ministers, you are in a critical period, in a critical ministry, and we need to give solutions. This is the daily life of the citizen. We don't do no thanks to anyone. We're not outlawing it. We are restoring past injustices, and at last it is the administration, the state and the state that must fall into these problems that concern our fellow citizens. I come to another matter. There is, for those who know, an entire area of thousands of acres, which have been given to coastermen with a distribution of 1923. People there are afflicted to protect their property literally. Here, then, we need to correct the original land registers and set a deadline, in accordance with Law No 2664/98, as is the case with the above provisions, for five years in order to complete the measures required under agricultural legislation. There it is again the same, a settlement area that has been given to coastal people, it has become distribution and half the state that has recognized them, while the other half is questioning them. These are phenomena that we keep living. I'm talking all the time, so we can all hear about the Anthosa case. Half the ministries recognized Anthusa as a community and the Ministry of Agriculture described it as forest until we brought an amendment and restored legitimacy, i.e. reality. This is true in many places. That's what's crazy about the world and where people can't understand. And you know, when there are no rules, it's easy to outlaw anyone. How can he respect when the same man who has no specialized knowledge understands very simply that there is a huge injustice here? It is these injustices that we need to correct, and we have a responsibility for them. I would like to go ahead and say very briefly that very well, Minister, you say that someone to get permission must state where to deposit the bills. Why so far do you know where the balls go? Because I live in Eastern Attica, I'll tell you they're on the streets, even asphalt. If you go to the White Tower New Yorkers, at night on the asphalt, you'll be emptying ball, waste, chemicals, and anything else. So the balls go to the streams, to the estates, to the properties, they wait to plunge and the revolver flips into the field, in the olives. That's the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we should not all welcome it when the Minister comes and says 'will you excavate', where are you going to do it? But there is a secret here, Minister. There have to be spaces where they're going. There cannot be an area and a few people are blackmailing the citizens and pouring them into being an unresolved problem. You need to space several areas in cooperation with the municipalities and the region that will welcome them and recycle, if you like, the building and general materials of the excavations. I would like to close, Mr President, with the settlements. That was said yesterday by SYRIZA's colleagues. You brought a law on residential densities. I don't know if he was good or bad. You brought him and we supported him everywhere in society and in the clubs, and the Members of Eastern Attica also know it. This law, because it had not been properly shielded, fell. What do you want to do today? Crying the shed milk? What are we going to tell the citizens who have stayed out of their hair? Shouldn't there be a continuity? Will you refuse until the end of the discussion of the bill to contribute with your views on how to correct your own deficit, your own mistake? He's taking an initiative with the Ministry. I will not judge whether it is the best or the worst, but I understand it very simply - and I imagine we all understand it - that it must first of all respect the decision of the Council of State and therefore legislate and respect the constitutionality, as I said yesterday, and also the openness that exists. That's what the ministry does. Do you have a better suggestion? You want something to change? Suggest it. We're ready to hear it. What do you mean? As to all the things that we in Eastern Attica are living in, with all these loose ends with the settlements, do you want to close our eyes and say they are not there? But it's the reality!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Vlao, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u280	I'll be done. There are settlements now. Every time he passes, the east Attica is built. We can't forget. We have to see all this, regulate them and stop them, but to stop something, we have to have legality, we have to see reality, or as long as we leave it at anyone's mercy, you know it's always going on, so we got here. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that the opposition has given the procedure, the legality, what the institutions say and the rest. But here, we are listening to them, but we also have knowledge of our regions. Don't you have these requests that I have come to me rugged all these days? You have no requests from the regions you are elected? Didn't anyone bother you to be a citizen, a body, a club? They're just sending them to us? And if you were to be sent - why obviously e-mails send them to everyone - why don't you give them the proper importance and invoke what a body that doesn't know about the area you live in, and you're dealing with, and you're finally representing?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u281	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u282	That is what we want you to tell us and that is what we want to agree on. To correct, as I said yesterday, any weaknesses - because there will be weaknesses in a piece of legislation - but to get out of here with the satisfaction that we have given solutions to problems of time, to problems affecting our fellow citizens. This will be the satisfaction and vindication of our work. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, may I make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u284	Just a moment, Mr. Secretary, please. Very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u285	These issues you have raised are real, and indeed state policy in such cases is contradictory for decades and has entangled citizens. We are also being put by Members of other parties. We are trying to find a solution - perhaps in the next draft law - but it should be strictly within the limits of constitutionality. And from there on, and the extent to which there will be a more general acceptance from Parliament, again in this context, will certainly help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u286	Mr Gerasimos Thomas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a valuable tool for implementing the country's energy transition, as it has been reflected in the National Energy and Climate Plan. It follows good European practices and progresses in the post-Koronian era. Not only does pandemic delay policies, as they are captured, but it makes their promotion more pressing than ever the next day. It is a conscious choice for the government that the country's environmental and energy policy is one of the most ambitious in the European Union, and that is confirmed on the day we start looking at the country's economic development again after the lockdown that existed in the past few weeks. I have heard many Members wondering why it is so important that the bill passes at this particular moment. If someone is fundamentally following the public debate that is taking place at European level, it will realise that the central role in the forthcoming economic development will be played by green investment throughout Europe. This was also clearly reflected in the conclusions of the last teleconferencing conference of Energy Ministers held last Tuesday. Today is the moment for the large sections that we need in the environment and energy. We won't be inactive watching developments run before us. On the contrary, it is clear that developments at European and Member State level fully deserve our choices. This bill therefore moves in this direction, giving strong impetus, among other things, to two of the pillars of Green Deal, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. As the World Energy Organisation has said in a recent report, the pandemic has shown in the most intense way the resilience of RES as an energy resource in all parts of the world. We understand the RES as part of our national wealth, which is why we are speeding up the licensing process, creating the proper conditions for stronger development in the sector. We want an RES sector extrovert, investment-friendly through processes that are not an obstacle, but our comparative advantage in attracting funds. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We also want RES energy cheap, taking advantage of the enormous technological advances in recent years, without subsidies because it is our view that we should bring down energy prices for the consumer. As has been said all these days, our aim is to reduce licensing time from the seven years that are today in twenty-four months. We want pigs to be pioneers. We have to be honest. We cannot be serious about developing RES projects without resolving the licensing issue. After our interventions, we are convinced that we are putting the foundations on the ground that at the end of the decade we will have achieved the goal of penetrating the RES into the energy mix by 35%. With new investments and at a cost per megawattage that is constantly falling, as took place in March in the middle of a coronary, which "PPC Renewables" hit a price of 49 euros per megawatt for the first time. More specifically, in addition to the intervention at the first stage of the authorisation we are doing in this bill, we have already started and are preparing proposals to simplify procedures in the next stages until the installation permit. We are also moving on to other issues that will facilitate the penetration of RES into the energy mix, such as arrangements for the installation of small wind turbines or the pricing of hybrid RES stations, to give some examples. Now more specifically for the RES. The certification of a power producer will be issued easily and soon without complex and time-consuming procedures. The elements of the admissibility of the applications shall be standardised and the examination procedure shall be simplified. The assessment of the fulfilment of specific conditions is maintained only in the specific projects, such as the large winds reported with interconnectors and cable for the islands where due to the complexity of the technology used and the specific conditions for integration into the system, it takes more time. Our aim is until 2021, together with a number of other changes that will take place in the summer, to implement the obligation that we have under the Community Directive 2001/2018 that RES investments will be authorised in total in two years. The state mechanism speeds up with this bill, but the investor must demonstrate his commitment and responsibility at all stages of the licensing process. There will be a self-justified withdrawal of the production licence and the producer attestation, if no precise time-limits are met for the implementation of the projects. The aim is to clarify the licensing environment and ensure the efficient exploitation of the country's natural and electrical space. The production certificate, with the amendments made by the Members and following the consultation, which took place last week - too long and very constructive - may be flexible. With regard to the combination added by a parliamentary amendment, the possibility is in proportion to what already exists in the draft law on the possibility of partitioning attestations or licences and has been formulated as a request for multiple investors benefiting from the single licensing procedure for these stations in the next stages. Priority shall also be given to the assessment of applications for modifications of production licences or certificates, but which have already been selected for aid through a competitive process during the transitional period. In other words, RES projects which have successfully participated in RAE competitions and have submitted an amendment request are considered as a priority. Any investment moves forward we are helping to create new jobs particularly at this difficult time - and I stress - for investments that have been priced from a competitive process, not for investments that have been subsidised from the old ones. Specific cases shall be introduced, the delay in examination of which shall not delay the assessment of subsequent cycles. In order to make the authorisation quick, we allow the licensing process not to stop the authorisation process of a new cycle until the previous one is finished for individual problematic cases. The E-Business Register, which will operate with RAE's licensing system, which is the body - and there have been comments on this - on the relevant managers is an innovative tool, which allows automation. There will be the same information system that will look at environmental, licensing and "TAXIS". They'll talk to each other, and that's a lot of incision. Until this is completed, transitional provisions shall be introduced. At the same time, as a result of this, financial facilities have been added since the date of the consultation, so that the instalments are two for the payment of the fee and that the maintenance fee is reduced. Finally, a provision was introduced after consultation on the restoration of any environmental damage at the end of the life cycle of RES and NATURA stations by a decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy, in which obligations will be provided, restoration measures, the way and the procedure for fulfilling the coverage and cost obligations of the relevant costs, as requested by environmental organisations. We therefore put the foundations so that we can move on to our goal so that we can have more, better and cheaper RES. On energy efficiency, we are moving forward with legislation that allows us to align ourselves with Community directives and allow us to move on to renovation projects for energy efficiency purposes, which help citizens in multiple ways. We have consulted the engineers and we have arranged issues which have been pending so that these projects can go ahead. It was foreseen by a presiding decree from the previous government to have audit services for energy efficiency certificates, but these were not carried out. We therefore proceed with a ministerial decision in the Register of Independent Experts. Finally, we are promoting the certification of engineers who make energy certificates at the request of the relevant European directive. In conclusion, we use European directives wisely and in a manner that fits Greek reality and enables the TEI to take out the necessary Circulars of application. Some comments were made in the debate on IPTO. First of all, I would like to say that in the crisis we had in the coronary and public and private companies in the energy sector - all companies - responded with a sense of social responsibility. No one created a problem, but the opposite, helped the country's energy security and there was no difference. It was a moment when the whole sector worked constructively for the economy. With regard to the proposed privatisation of IPTO, which we are simply making possible - we have not currently brought this particular proposal on what we will do - I am simply saying from the previous government that public participation in the IPTO is 34%. Therefore, by allowing the government to reduce its participation from 51% to less, we are not originalising. I also think I have explained to the committee that the present company scheme of IPTO is such that, on the one hand, it has allowed large investments to be launched and is on the other hand continuing to improve the participation of IPTO. Also, IPTO, like all companies in the energy sector after this pandemic, will need new funds to implement these investments and others that will probably need more. One issue was raised on an amendment tabled for the EDPS and the 'International' conference on allegedly conflict of interest invoked by Mr Famelos. What do we do in this amendment? We ensure that the “International Projects” will be transferred and become a subsidiary of the EDN. We also ensure with this amendment that the public can buy 35%, which is currently held by the ELPEs, which, of course, is a public shareholder. So the political will we have stated since the November bill is that the 'USDP' is in the hands of the public. This is the political will, the "Internationals" as a subsidiary of the EESC to be in the hands of the public, because it is involved in strategic projects. On the other hand, what is the 'USDP' today? It is a company where 50% of the shares are held by IGI POSEIDON. And the other 50% who's got it? The 'EDISON'. The private individuals are already there at the “International” conference, whether for EastMed, or for IGB. We're partners. The State through the PPA is a shareholder with the private sector. We're going to reduce this. What did SYRIZA's previous law do? He put “Internationals” in the “Infrastructures”, he sold it and would stay with the law of SYRIZA in public with 25.5% in the overall shape of “Internationals” and “IGI POSEIDON”. We are therefore strengthening the role of the public, precisely because these projects are of geopolitical importance and which are not controlled as the infrastructure we have within the country, whether the Attica ERC does or does them, which are specific projects that are regulated by the RAE. RAE is supervising. There are tools. These are geostrategic matters and, therefore, we are bringing them closer to the public. There is no question of a conflict of interest, because the HR does not mining. The mining contracts made by the Greek state with third parties. The NSA is a company which does not engage in mining. It only deals with the control and monitoring of public procurement. There is no question of that, then. And all the necessary legal precautions have been taken. Finally, I wanted to say a few words on the subject that is often referred to as a regulation on the 'Hellenic Chrysos', but, of course, it is not an arrangement for the 'Hellenic Chrysos'. And I'll say why. It is an arrangement for various mining projects, which currently accounts for 3.5% of the country's GDP. We also have other such activities, not only the "ELELANDS CRYSOS". I shall say clearly - because Mr Arsenis made a comment - that this regulation does not remove either GDP or permit or any other authorisation that these investments need to have. None of this is abolished and none of this is anticipated. Since 2018, a law that came from the previous government, which changed the law of 2016. The law of 2018, before the adoption of this bill, said that the accompanying mining works do not require permission, but an opinion of operation. That was before we brought this bill. And this was the case for a number of projects which were classified as 'following mining activities'. So we come to this and add two projects that are accompanying. What is it? Mineral waste disposal sites and water treatment plants. As regards deposition, this provision concerns extractive waste which has not undergone heat or chemical treatment. In other words, they are neither industrial waste nor subject to the Seveso directive. I mean, in the common language, we're talking about football. This is accompanying works for the deposition of a bass in the mine. For heat-treated or chemical-treated waste, Article 72 of Law 4442/2016 provides for a separate authorisation procedure shall normally apply. Of course, we too want no discounts on this issue. Therefore, when there is chemical or thermal treatment, there will continue to be the authorisation procedure for the law and not the notification. As far as wet waste is concerned, the most common treatment is a simple neutralization. It is not a process that we put on the list now, which includes refining or more complex process, such as reverse odouring. We are not talking about procedures or waste transported into drinking water. So, with this amendment, some procedures are not going too far. In the case of the "ELLENIC FRAMEWORK" - as I repeat, it is not just for these cases, but for me to answer the questions - the mines of the Olympiad and of the Black Petroleum are currently served by the Kokkinolaka deposition site. There is currently the authorisation from 2013, the notification from December 2018, which was made on the basis of Law 4512/2018 and also all the conditions of Ministerial Decision E103/2009 and the inspections of the Department of Mining and Environmental Inspection, which exist. All this is true and that is not going to change. If something new needs to be done, such as, for example, when a new metallurgy plant is well made and there will be heat-treated and chemical products, it will, of course, fall under another article in Class IV of Article 72 and authorisation will be required. So let's get this straight. This article does not cover all products of heat and chemical processing. It is a very specific case, and it is not currently expected to happen anything new. I would like to end here, Mr President, and say that with this bill we are seeking to start economic activity again, to continue the investments that had begun before the krone, to remain consistent on the agenda that we have put in and to assist investment in the energy sector, which the state so much needs. The draft law lays the necessary foundations for sustainable economic development, without environmental reductions in the energy sector, and we owe this to our country and to new generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u288	Mr. Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution for eight minutes. Mr. Mylonakis, everyone speaks of their position, because we are earning time. It's fourteen more colleagues. Maybe there's a speech from the Chief. I'm still not up to speed, but I guess that's the way it is. They are the Parliamentary Representatives. Until everyone comes here, until the Step is cleared, you lose any time the Bureau can accept as a small tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u289	I won't be late. I just want to talk and look in the eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u290	Anyway, I can't remove it from you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I am also respectful of the head in front of our four compatriots murdered ten years ago in Marfin. She's three and a pregnant woman, who had a baby. And yet, ten years later, Ministers, we haven't found the killers. Who are they, how many are they? They're the known strangers. We all know them, and nobody puts them in jail. I wish in your government, Mr. Hatzidakis, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the killers should be found and brought to prison. I would also like to say that I remembered today when as a journalist I watched this Parliament in the last parliamentary term, which was the Golden Dawn, how some were swearing, devouring, throwing papers from the seat to MPs here and saying that it is '...'. Such a '...' act was today, a policy of '...'. I'm always buttoning. Today I'll be unbuttoned. I'm talking to you, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u292	I'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u293	For what you have done is "...".
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u294	What did I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u295	It has never happened in a democracy, a party president speaking and shouting. We're ten nomadic, and we've never talked. We have never yelled when a colleague speaks and does his parliamentary work. And you went out to accuse yourself, to swear filthyly - you didn't accuse politically, you found vulgar - of the work he does.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u296	You're upset, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u297	Yes, I'm upset, Mr. Loverdo. I'm very upset. Because no one stood up and I say it to the Vice-President of the New Democracy. Mr. Hatzidakis, does this man belong to your resignation? Are you laughing? If I tell you "..." will you laugh? If I say "..." in front of the Prime Minister, will you laugh? You won't laugh then. You'll all stand up and say, there's a "..."! If it were Golden Dawn here, Mr. Amyuras, and you're her MP, it would be panic in here. But nothing happened today! Why? Why are you neo-democratics covering this '...' policy? Or am I not right again? I'm telling you, Mr. Lovedro, why I took you out and we talked about these issues. But no one today. Mr. Voutsi, you were President of the House. Didn't they? Is that not a '...' attitude? They've gathered a “...”, so. It doesn't matter if he's red or black. It's "..." and I denounce him. To say ‘...’ Party president for his work? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u298	Mr Mylonakis, please continue on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u299	I didn't have you for that. I'm telling you. I wasn't expecting it from you. I never thought so. I know your brother. He's so serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Mylonakis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u301	I'm embarrassed, sir. I am also ashamed of the Vice-President of the New Democracy who has laughed. You laughed at telling the president of the party "..." not politically because he was working. Adonis Georgiadis should be here, when he was called "television seller" and accused him again, to see what he was going to say today. You picked him up. "Danced" a river and pick everyone up. But that's how you do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I would like to reply later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u303	You should answer that. Whatever you mean. With Article 44, ladies and gentlemen, we said yesterday, Mr Minister, that you described four different areas as 'NATURA'. Full protection zone of nature, nature protection zone, habitat and species management zone and sustainable natural resources management zone. Allow the latter two forms of mining activity, i.e. mining, quarrying, mining. No one imagined that modernising your own basic environmental bill would be to impose, to set by means of a provision such as this, in which any company, oil or consortium would choose an area, would self-invent research and exploitation of resources, no matter whether its installations or activities were destroying a habitat. I would like to say two things, however, about Article 12, which we have discussed very much in the party. It is an article mainly concerning land-based wind parks and this thing must be interrupted. Already by the end of 2019 over 3,500 MW wind parks have been placed, which have proved to be an entirely unreliable and goldy-paid electricity. In other words, you are appalling, gentlemen, that we have stopped lignite, while other countries such as Germany still have 15 years for lignite. Why? To get the wind parks? Go see what's going on on Skyros. The southern Black is full of wind turbines. The environment has been destroyed. And what's the profit? Is that such a big profit? Mr. Undersecretary, Mr. Thomas, spoke earlier about IPTO. So, gentlemen of the government, you admit that your next move is to sell IPTO out. SYRIZA came and gave 24% to the "STATE GRID". Isn't that right, Minister? Did SYRIZA not sell 24% of the shares in the Chinese 'STATE GRID'? Mr. Famelle, we told you yesterday and we need an answer. Didn't you place more private individuals on the Board of Directors of IPTO than the State? 51% doesn't have the public?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u304	I answered today. The management...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u305	Management doesn't have the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u306	Don't hold a dialogue, please warmly, Mr. Mylonakis. You're in Stepma, develop your positions. Don't ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u307	I said he didn't answer yesterday. So now Mr Thomas has stood up and admitted that he will completely sell out the IPTO any time he will privatize him. What's the point? He says the D.C.F.A.'s going well. But he was a profitable, wasn't he? Wasn't the D.C.F.A. profitable? So, do we have to sell out all the profitable business? Where are you going with this? Why are you doing this? That is a question, Minister, which you must answer. Also, another issue is why the Institute for Geological and Mining Research you want to close it. What's the reason a clearer came in? What is the reason why you want to close this institute, the government's advisor. We have told you from the outset that we are voting against this bill. This bill shouldn't even have come to Parliament. However, whatever we and the rest of the opposition, the government with the hundred and fifty-eight MPs, since the Greek people gave you all the right to legislate and vote and to pass whatever you want, you will pass it. But you're making a big mistake. We shall vote against it in principle and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u309	Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Amyras. However, I would ask you, because there has been a position by Mr Mylonakis on you, do not spark off the debate at all. Please, warmly to close the matter here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u310	The request is accepted. It'll be accepted. Of course, Mr. Mylonakis and my Greek Solution "...". Hey, they're laughing at the tiles. Do you want me to tell you about the designation of "..."? How would you characterize someone who comes out on TV and advertises dungeons as an answer to the coronary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u311	Keep going! Mr. President, pick him up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u312	Therefore, withdraw the words ‘...’. Especially me, ‘...’, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u313	He should be apologizing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u314	You're welcome, Mr. President. I would like to ask you: How would you characterize someone who is slapping on television as a response to the coronary?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u315	Shame on you! He's talking about his work!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u316	That's the first. And the second, the “...”, those who move extremely populist...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Amyra...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u318	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u319	Apologise to colleagues too!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u320	Please. To apologize to you. You heard your president from the Step of the House with the hybrid designations...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u321	I did not interrupt Mr. Mylonakis either.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u322	Yes, but it calls him "...". You're not allowed!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u323	Please. Have you finished, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u324	Not after I was interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u325	Complete and address the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u326	Apologise!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u327	I'm on it again. To apologise and apologise to Mr Mylonakis for the designation '...'. They see how they react.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Amyras, I beg you warmly. We have a critical bill. There are too many colleagues, Ministers, party leaders. Don't let us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u329	I've raised a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u330	You didn't answer? You answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u331	No, I didn't answer. I put a simple question and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u332	Good. You put it. It's been heard and the conversation closes here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u333	As long as, for who's "..." in here, what can I tell you now? I said again, they're laughing at Parliament's tiles! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u334	Mr Savvas Snowides from New Democracy has the floor for eight minutes. Again, I'm going to ask: why are you going to Step and we're wasting time? Since the downhill is just as important and better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u335	Let's see, Mr. President, how the world is behind the glass!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u336	Here, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, through this process which has troubled the whole world and Greece, the issue of the coronary, in addition to everything else and the great 'thanks' that we have to say in society itself, but also those who were at the forefront of the battle, I would like to refer to something that is useful and crucial to the environment. It is crucial, Minister, at this stage that we have learned to be afraid and to hear how dangerous those which cannot be seen with the naked eye, namely the dangerous gases, the suspended microparticles. This fear and knowledge that has been put in place for our well-being, I think it is an opportunity to use them to improve our habits and reduce the gases. And I mean not only carbon dioxide but also suspended micro particles. One point I would like to raise is growth with respect for the environment. What's harder? Finding money and investment or bureaucracy? The conclusion on Greece - because it is happening here and in some other developing countries - is that bureaucracy is a huge obstacle to deciding to come and invest. I shall refer to the forest maps, where many cultivable fields and tens of thousands of people have not been able to exploit their real estate and have been in a suffering with the thousands of objections. The objections would have been much more if they were all able to pay the paradox so that they could make the objection. It is also important that we see things on the ground, we need to see what things are today and what we can both salvage and work. That is the logic of dealing with urban densities. And I believe that very soon we will be able to have the solution, which is acceptable to both the Council of State and to its demands. An important part is the issue of plastic bags, which we had held conferences at the time in the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, and how useful it is to be able to avoid these and disposable plastics. It is also important for waste AKKs, which in times of growth, before the crisis, I would like to stress that it was twice as much at the expense of all urban property that was for processing. In the part of renewable energy, I would like to say: it goes without saying that we shall have to support them in any way. They came to me at some point and said to me as chairman of the Committee on the Environment: 'Is it not bad to have a wind turbine on an island'? The answer I gave was simple and clear: If the windmills were built there was technology to do higher and stronger works, what would we do? Would we stay 20 or twenty-five meters of windmills? And, of course, we had the case in my area, in Pieria, where, when you go up to Pieria Ores, you see black smoke coming from Ptolemais and Agios Dimitrios. However, there were people who reacted to the installation of 2 MW wind turbines. An important part, too, to which we aim, is the part concerning the 'Security' programme. Let me remind you that the Minister at that time was Kostis Hadjidakis, Secretary of State Costis Mousouroulis. So, then, it was understood what the size is and what the real value of putting the program "Security" into our lives is. I'll only say two numbers. For every kilowatt we win from the program "Security", with the insulations that take place, it costs us two and a half minutes. On the contrary, one time others in active systems that looked at the sun paid for forty - five minutes per kilowatt now. So it's useful. All sixty thousand homes, Minister, will have to be made more annually, because they really have to contribute a great deal. As regards the crucial aspect, which we have heard, for the protected areas, I would like to say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the application of the vision of Antonis Tritsis. Antonis Tritsis, therefore, had thought that there should be a single body to deal with all these protected areas. Of course, as soon as Koulubis changed and entered, things changed and became - good intentionally, I cannot say - all those bodies that in fact failed to achieve their work. It is therefore a unique opportunity for Antonis Tritsis' vision to take place from today's Ministry and with the vote in this House. So what does 'protected areas' mean? Many people are afraid and say: 'What is NATURA'? ‘What are the SPAs’? Because they have some special names. ‘What are the protected areas for birds’? Here, then, Law 1650/1986, as he stood by the 2011 law, is quite clear. So we come and say: Can you, while respecting all the conditions, create a development that respects the environment? The answer is, yes. It's clear. This is also provided for in the directive that came out for NATURA 2000. It is also reasonable that the governments - and the last government - be able to intervene in NATURA areas, since it is possible to prove that it is for the benefit of the environment and social and development. We have examples and I come to what I said first, which was the part of bureaucracy and obstacles. I would like to mention one, two sketchy examples. The first is Naxos. Four years is the envelope there, so that we can get an authorisation for a project funded, which does not go any further. Six years it took HYTA's Andre to get permission. And what should I mention, too? The excesses? Everyone is likely to know that there are the firing fields I don't know which of us - I didn't know - that there is a shooting field here in Saronicos, which is mostly about airplanes and ships. This island, this island has recently been characterized as a protected area. It's SPA. There are still hundreds of tragic examples. Socrates knows how Volakas was described, where there is a marble mine. It was characterized by the lack of studies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So we have to go back historically. That is where we will see that there is a failure in the studies. We know very well that because there were direct assignments via the EKBY and other bodies, we have a lack of studies. Minister, I would say a great 'bravo' to you and to your staff who dare to go against a huge lobby. And it's not just what they think about the environment, it's not just that they have idealism. There's something else. They spoil the jobs - it's clear - of some people who are used to, selling this piece, the so-called love for the environment, from there on can function and be superior, be the prosecutors, be the people who...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u338	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u339	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u340	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u341	I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u342	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. Close with the last complete perfection you'll find!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u343	We therefore say that these studies must be exploited. And I'd say a bigger bravo, Minister, take more steps, because abscesses operate, they don't heal. I would say that you should check your Ministry for who has received these poor studies and, secondly, because the limits are set as appropriate, for there to be a redefinition of all these limits. It is a big mistake to be able to say that we are making progress in demarcations and uses through documented studies. Because so far we have had the sloppiness, ideology and, above all, the jobs that many people have done through so-called NGOs or other actions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u344	You're done, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u345	...and not according to the logic of the award by the NGAA or the public. A big one, it's in the positive direction. The vision Antonis Tritsis is here to make a reality and to make a single utilitarian use of all these lands and to save, really, to put a huge back on the affected environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u347	First, don't get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u348	Can't you let me talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u349	I won't give it any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u350	I'll talk anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u351	No, not at all. No talk. Let me just say, because I see people coming into the Chamber for the next committee to discuss at 17.00 - if I am not cheating, the Committee on Social Affairs - that it will be delayed and will be after 19.00. I'm telling you this so you'll know those of you who came for the committee. After all, you must not remain silent because the rules we have and we are applying these days are a certain number of Members of Parliament. So, please, I told you, after 19.00 there will be the next committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, I ask why...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u353	No, I don't give a reason. I'm not opening a conversation at all. She's got a thing that she was. From now on, everyone says what they want. I'm calling Mrs. Theophiste Perka from SYRIZA for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, I and the Prime Minister's presence this morning will probably start on the subject of my region because I was really provoked. Of course, I will also respond to the questions raised by Mr Hatzidakis, the Minister, what the SYRIZA's position is on liberation and why you are criticising us. The Prime Minister blessed the environment, that's the expression. He said 'we do it earlier and more methodically'. Well, let's go check it out. First of all, it was Alexis Tsipras who signed the Green Agreement. That's clear. Of course we are in favour of defoliation, but on what terms? For a fair and smooth transition, ensuring workers, district heating. We've made a whole plan, and we've made the National Fair Transfer Fund, and they're 60 million parked, Minister. Neither a euro in western Macedonia nor a single position in western Macedonia. In the announcements you're very good. Of course, the Prime Minister announced this earlier without any preparations. It's May. Where's the master plan and where did one talk to the local community? Because, you know, we told you another time, without hugging this project from local society, it doesn't happen. But listen to the European Commission, which says that, in order for these actions to be financed for the Fair transition, they must define social, economic, environmental challenges, provide detailed information on needs, measures for economic diversification, retraining of environmental rehabilitation. Nothing, zero for ten months. In fact, we have tragic phenomena, and I have to say it. You are aware, Mr. Minister, what is currently happening in A.S. Meliti? It has been stopped for months, and even though we had the assurance that in two months it would start to function in the pump, the lignite is self-conceived, so environmental destruction, economic disaster - because it is lost, burned - and terrible precariousness and despair in society. There's despair in Florinna. Amyntaius, he says, will be closed on April 30th. I hope you're not serious about this. We have moved on with two projects of biomass in order for district heating to work, and of course these need to be combined. It's easy to make announcements, but very difficult to plan for serious, fair. And now we're going a little bit to Florina's district heating. That's new. The whole of Europe is investing in district heating, 70% to 80% of Denmark's investments are television heaters, Great Britain forbids gas for heating in new buildings, and here we stop the work that has an investor and capital, we cut it off and we go gas, when? So we will drop millions into an investment that has an end date - because natural gas will end in 2050, if we are with the Green Agreement - instead of throwing money and making innovation and going to 21st century technology. These are unacceptable. It is a good thing that we are talking about the environment, but nothing is being observed. And also, this special lignite charge that was at the variable cost I don't understand why it's changing. This area at least has no difficulty with the resource. Ladies and gentlemen, a very serious question which many have raised at times will be answered today. Because this country forty years - I would never say - has not been able to have tools, to invest, to have land registers, to have forest maps, to have spatial policy, to demarcate saints, to archaeological sites. Why? This lack, then, was not an accident, it was not unreasonable, it was not incompetent. It was a choice. Because if you have rules, you can't do favors. What the SYRIZA government tried to do with a bill is being dismantled. This bill concentrates all this idealism, which is selfish, neoliberalism. I'll draw some conclusions. Conclusion One: What's going on now? Environmental protection is an obstacle to investment. In this regard, therefore, environmental licensing does not prioritise the protection of the environment as a common good nor is it an essential stage for the healthy competitiveness of investments for sustainability. The period of validity of GDP therefore increases although international experience and European experience reduces these times or makes continuous re-elections. There is no more dynamic legislation than environmental. Every time an accident occurs, like in Japan, it's changing. But this is where these challenges of the time are ignored, even the pandemic. Of course, pandemic is directly linked to the environment and biodiversity. On the other hand, for GDP issue, time is shrinking, the opinions of the relevant departments are omitted, and a little help is given by private evaluators. And what do we do? To have completely unreliable GDP. No protection of the environment, but no legal certainty for the investments themselves, since they will be more vulnerable, in appeals and in all kinds of delays. Of course, it may be our goal to simplify procedures and shorten time, but on condition that we protect the environment, which I note - because many things have been heard in the Chamber - that in our country the level of environmental protection is not too high. Moreover, when studies are correct, environmental legislation is not slow. Environmental legislation is slowing down when there are problems. That's what you're gonna tell me, we want to solve, no problems, just like the Squirrels. In fact, we could say that anyone anywhere else could do anything. Conclusion 2: The State is an obstacle to investment. Here is a doctrine of neoliberalism that the state must grant and not perform its traditional role in order not to deprive private companies of the opportunity to increase their profits. We therefore say that the public administration, which, of course, needs support, needs to do its part, that is to say, monitor any investment process, because there is serious expertise in public services and public capital. The only thing left in the public services and those people working there is processing and responsibilities, because for these individuals - evaluators nowhere in the bill is not described as criminal or administrative responsibilities nor, of course, there is some provision to avoid interdependence between investor and auditor. Alas! Conclusion third: Scientists and scientific knowledge and experience are an obstacle to investment. Foresters, geoponists, foresters, all the log structure, GEOTEE, the state's official advisor had no idea about the bill. Services with their institutional memory are not recommended. Management bodies established with specialist scientists shall be abolished. However, people who have no scientific background will decide whether the area is wooded or not. Long live excellence! The Minister told us yesterday that we had the democracy of the scholars. We should abolish the studies. However, what is sadder and has not been the first time in this Chamber is that there are scientists - ministers, who use scientific knowledge and language to legislate unscientificly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. Economou, I honestly ask you: do you teach your students and tell them that we can overthrow the design, that the subject can overthrow the overthrower, that the protected areas can be treated with urban planning tools such as in the urban area? Eventually, we have to study again. But I don't want to put any ideas on you because there are vouchers. It is better to degrade the concept that any territorial development can be done by rules. Conclusion fourth: Decentralisation and self-government are an obstacle to investment. Management bodies, which have the element of locality involved, and the municipalities, environmental organisations, local bodies are abolished and all the competence goes to the OFEKA, which, in fact, clearly says - is laid down in the bill that it will operate on private economic criteria. Here they are, Golden Boys, because we were worried. And municipalities, of course, lose responsibilities and resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u355	Completely, because at first I hadn't put the clock for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u356	I shall speak as much as the previous ones, Mr President, as Mr Vlachos and others have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u357	I'm sorry? You're not gonna take care of it. I've had two minutes to put the eight, so hang up, please, 'cause I know what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u358	I will continue because the bill is very serious, Mr President, and we are few. Let's say a word more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u359	Don't think you'll do anything you want. I told you there was a problem of time, a problem of performers, a problem of days. We all have to respect it with me first, and that's what I'm doing. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u360	Let me finish. Everything will be planned and controlled by Athens, but Athens has almost escaped. You saw that yesterday he retired. In other words, we would have a change of land use in the center of Athens without the municipality knowing, the municipal council and beyond the Regulatory Board. It is in this context that we should abolish the studies. Of course, the fifth conclusion cannot be that the state's presence in the neural sectors of the economy is an obstacle to investment, and so does IPTO with a dowry of hundreds of millions of euros. With this disinvestment of the State, the State will lose control of the distribution of electricity, the interconnection of the islands and others. The last conclusion, however, is that, in the end, the major obstacle to investment is democracy, it is the Constitution, it is the decisions of the Skopje, the European directives, environmental organisations, management bodies, the CEDEFOP, the municipalities, the Citizens' Counsel and the GSEE and, more generally, the civil society that is expressed, because since the morning, the Prime Minister himself has been saying about SYRIZA. Really? What environmental organizations did Mr Mitsotakis speak about and we do not know and have not seen a text of the bill? Only BSE was seen to support the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u361	Mrs. Perka, close up. You've spoken for twelve minutes. Don't look at the time. Close with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u362	In any case, this bill is unacceptable. We cannot legitimise this because history, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be such irresponsible in the era of great climate change, in order to be who knows what investment is going to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u363	I would remind you that those of us who are in committee should not be left in the Chamber for reasons of well-known nature. Please not be in the Chamber. Keep only those in the Chamber in relation to the bill that is being discussed. That is what the health decision requires.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u364	Mr. President, tell us what we're going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u365	After 19:00, the committee will start. That is why I say that the Members who are responsible for the committee will be withdrawing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u367	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u368	I wondered what I was teaching my students, and if I teach my students to overthrow the design. I teach my students: In international space the design has a hierarchy, but there are conditions and rules of feedback from the bottom up. That's the first. Secondly, to Law 4447 passed by SYRIZA, Article 5(5) and Article 6(5), the feedback was predicted, the hierarchy was predicted, but the feedback is uncontrolled without rules and the exclusive competence of the Ministry of the Environment. We do not want to have the right to overthrow the Minister's decisions only on the underlying design. So what we are doing is to clarify it. From there on, Mr. Famelos has denounced that we are overthrowing the hierarchy, that is, we do not allow the supreme level to be imposed on the bottom. And the "HAY" on Sunday denounced us for the return, precisely that, that is, we insist that the excess levels can be overthrown by the subjects. SYRIZA has yet to decide which one he wants, but both are wrong. What we are doing is right and that is what the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says. Read it and if we don't have time now, we're going to an empty room then to explain it more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Minister. Mr Constantine Hetas has been speaking as a parliamentary representative from the Greek Solution. Because the president has spoken, you will speak for four minutes from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u370	Yes, Mr President, four minutes from my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u371	Here, Mr Heta, you have the floor with the request not to trigger any further conversations. You see that time is too tight and the process needs to be shortened
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u372	Thank you, Mr President. You have my word that I will not fire, and our word counts, Mr President, because you have taken care to ensure that they do not fire, but of course the reason has not been kept because for some reason it simply does not count. We agree better, Mr President, both of us. I would like to address you, Mr President, because I am addressing the Bureau and nowhere else, always holding my word. Who's protecting us in this Chamber? Mr President, really - and I am not talking about you who are here and then answer me, if you want, why is there a major issue here about how we function - who protects us? I say this, Mr President, because we have every right to say it and ask for it, because we are all witnesses here - not only have we caused, but I think we have excellent cooperation with all the parties, from all sides with many disagreements, of course, with political disagreements, because we are here. We're not here for gossip or to say what Bourash, Hetas, Adonish, Bogdan, is doing for anyone I see in front of me now. This is where we're talking. Do you have any political disagreements? Very good. So he said some things, well, Kyriakos the Velopoulos. Do you disagree? Come on up and say your disagreement. Mr President, who can protect a man when in the Greek Parliament, with open microphones, a gentleman calls the president of a 'fraud party' and all of Greece listens to that word. Tell me a little how we'll react? Shouldn't someone pay for it, for the damage he's causing? Because he didn't call him a political conman, even because he might have fooled the world politically or anything, he called him a con man for his work. Mr President, you too, at the time of the outbreak of this gentleman, who, of course, did not keep his word to you, spoke on the phone and could not hear the euphoria that he was expressing and repeatedly called a President of Parliament's group 'a fraudster'. This thing has never been done in the Greek Parliament before. Never! And instead of closing his mic, you let us here grow up and try to force order. What class? Listen, Mr President, because I am only talking about you, I have given you my word - because there has been a lot of fascism here - you know - it is not ideology, it is mentalism and, unfortunately, we are clearly seeing who is showing it in here. Stay away from us, we've shown it in nine months. He knows very well who we are, how we work and how we deal with the world and where everyone comes from and what they do. He asked a question, Mr President, after he was so cut off on the President's job, but he withdrew it. He didn't tell us why he withdrew her. He asked a question, but he withdrew it, because if the gentleman wants a gossip, we know twice as much gossip. And we know very well who pulled that little one out of him to withdraw the question. But we do not want to get that low, Mr President, because we are policy here. I would also like to say, Mr President, something - I say this, let the world hear it - from a tree does not come out of its own fruits. Unfortunately, we have an example of an excellent journalist and we have a very opposite example. The same tree did not come out of the same fruits. You know what? It is a matter of ethos, Mr President, which some people here do not have, in particular, a gentleman. Nor do I say any names or personal names, I address you, Mr President, because that is the right thing to do. Mr President, I would also like to say this: for a few seconds of projection it is very easy to hit someone above, someone who is high. It's too easy for a few seconds of projection, but where you hit, you can never get there. And as the people say, Mr President, empty cans make a lot of noise. Let us share this in the Greek Parliament today too. I close this issue and I do not come back, asking for protection from the Bureau because you are due - the Bureau, not only - to protect the Greek solution, to protect all the parliamentary parties, to protect all the Presidents, all the Members of Parliament who show themselves the best. Mr President, you know that they came from yesterday - because this gentleman was set up yesterday, calling us Chrysayites - four Members of your party - I am now revealing it here - and asking us for these benches to be apologised? Four New Democracy MPs went through here and apologized to us because they felt that way! And I think most of you feel that way too. I am going to something else now, because we have to have the policy - if you want - balance to be able to communicate here. He has said many things - for example, I say - Mr Hatzidakis, to whom we disagree vertically. And you will have seen, Minister, that we often have a political battle. You have your arguments, we have ours. When Mr. Hatzidakis says, for example, it doesn't mean that we are flying underneath, "What are you talking about? Stop! Or you're anything." No worse, that is, for God's sake! For Mr. Chiodra, he didn't say anything, he didn't even curse him. A statement by Mr Chiodra, who made it yesterday, was made yesterday, and I shall now pass it on to him. He didn't say anything crazy. I close, Mr President, and pass on Mr Chiodra's statement: 'Germans, for example, cannot do so because they do not have a full record of deaths, and we did even an exaggeration', says Mr Chiodra. "Everyone who died of or died of COVID was recorded as dying of COVID. I remember, for example, a brain bleeding. Having COVID doesn't necessarily mean dying from COVID. We recorded it as dying of COVID, that is, we put it in the common tank and I think we are right to do that." This statement was carried by Kyriakos Velopoulos. And you're up, like we've touched a man and a what. Okay, we haven't said anything. Mr. Chiodra didn't touch him so badly, we said he made this statement, we said that other things said a month ago, but he's saying now. Science may change, conditions may change. Say what you want, but let us talk! And as far as the masks are concerned, because I have heard from other New Democracy colleagues to decide: The masks...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u373	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u374	I'm really finishing up, you have my word. Do the masks or don't they? Our textiles Mr. Georgiadis told us 15 days ago that they do not meet the health standards and we should not sew masks because it does not. Today we heard another colleague here who said "write masks, guys, slowly!" I repeat, Mr President, that these sounds - leaving...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u375	Close, that's other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u376	I close, asking once again for protection from you, because when that is missing, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u377	Let me show you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u378	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u379	First of all, there should be only those who refer to the draft legislation in the Chamber. Those who came for the roll-call or the committee's request warmly to leave for health reasons, since we have such a mandate. Secondly, you said it, I don't know the beginning. Mr. Heta, I've noticed you must be careful of me. I don't know the beginning of the event, because I didn't betray yesterday. You said that it started yesterday, today I was in the Bureau. What the Bureau has done is to delete all the inappropriate - not to say any more - words, under the responsibility of the Bureau, they have been deleted from the Minutes. And I ask that the matter be closed here, that we do not give any more follow-up. The Bureau has taken its measures and deleted all the inappropriate expressions from the Minutes. Before I continue and call on the next speaker in Stepa, you will allow me, Mr Minister, in my capacity as a Member of the West Attica, because I cannot go down, I will gladly also thank the Prime Minister who mentioned it - and he said, of course, about the East Attica, but the same applies to the West - for Article 96 of the bill, which solves a very big problem which exists in both the East and West Attica, that is to say, the entire Triumph. That is very positive. And I would like to ask you, for Kinetta, which has suffered a great deal of natural disaster, to bear in mind that Article 48(2) is very correct and, in fact, says that it is clearly and clearly provided for that the operations leading to a legitimate change in the character of land and the other elements available in the forestry service are the forest map. However, acts which have never been cancelled in 1943 and 1945 by courts - which I have given to Mr Arbessis, but which I will formally table in the Minutes - the forestry services do not accept. A statement could be made so that those acts that have never been cancelled, which have never been called into question by any court, are in force because the forestry services question them. Mr. Araxis and Mr. Economou know very well. Thank you very much and I give the floor to the next colleague, Mr Philip Loading from New Democracy for eight minutes. I'll be strict in keeping time, I mean. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios Bouras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u380	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be as brief as I can, because it's a big bill. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today ten years have passed since Marfin's insurmountable tragedy. We must therefore not forget as citizens. But the state also owes itself, and it is a very good thing - we have heard it from the Prime Minister's mouth - that the state fulfils its sacred obligation to the memory of the victims of Marfin. Let's go to this bill now. This bill introduces bold arrangements by rationalising procedures and resolving chronic problems in critical areas of environmental and energy policy. Different problems are being posed. Three critical manifestations of the necessary political reform in the environment and energy are achieved with a range of specific provisions. Firstly, the framework for more effective environmental protection is being established, in particular in the area of protected areas and their management. Secondly, there are foundations for a green economy where resources will be used with care for their own protection. Thirdly, methods of modern management are being established mainly by using digital technologies for the creation and interconnection of electronic registries and, of course, by promoting data utilization, in order to finally make up-to-date decisions in database by central administration and individual administrative bodies and citizens and professionals. In key areas of environmental and energy policy, therefore, a new framework is introduced that will create new opportunities and will, of course, put new challenges and opportunities of importance. But there are too great challenges ahead of us. I would like to focus on some of the opportunities that are being raised, in particular the provisions on protected areas and uses of land, but also on some critical challenges, particularly in the RES and waste management, but also in other areas. So let's start with opportunities. Significant opportunities arise, firstly, through the establishment of the OFEKA, a single management body for protected areas, which with economies of scale can make use of resources, funding, decision-making tools and in practice ensure effective environmental management. With a view to overseeing all the regions, it can also give its opinion to the Ministry and intervene in critical protection points. Secondly, with institutional immunisation in Articles 46 et seq. of the environmentally protected areas other than those described as NATURA, so that we can also protect areas of great environmental wealth that are necessary, as in the smaller Aegean islands, as in paragraph 2(c) of Article 46. Thirdly, with the introduction of stronger FODs for waste management, which through economies of scale will have more resources and more institutional power to deal with such key issues in this field. Especially in Article 43, the FOD for island regions, such as the southern Aegean, can and must work effectively to solve key and vital problems that our islands have afflicted for years. Fourthly, by establishing electronic registries and in particular the interconnection of registers for the effective mapping of all land uses and, in particular, forest areas, for transparency in land use, and for faster resolution of chronic strangles, in particular in the forestry field. We are now going to the critical challenges. I would like to focus on a challenge of a more general issue of placement of the RES and a specific issue, that of the status of smyrna workers, namely Naxos. Separation of RES: Determining importance in the implementation of this draft is the placement of RES and, in particular, in areas with specific geomorphology and corresponding specific protection requirements. In the individual provisions of Articles 10 to 15 and 18, 19 express provisions are made on the crucial importance of the specific spatial planning of the RES, and the question of an area's capacity is crucial. All these forecasts lay down a basis, set the initial safety net, as will be provided for in the specific spatial plan, as referred to in Articles 11 and 12, how to resolve conflicts of application between production licensees on the basis of the capacity, as provided for in Article 15, and finally, what the producer attestation regulation will provide for, as provided for in Article 18. However, in island Greece, special conditions need to be considered with great care to determine the criteria for the location of wind power plants. Through the special spatial planning of the RES, it is imperative to take into account the specificities of protecting, firstly, the critical environmental and, secondly, the housing wealth of our small islands and of course the economy. Also, precisely because a revised spatial plan is to be adopted immediately, the consideration of how to deal with the case of EIA licences or RES production licences is to be addressed, for which, with the data on the new spatial plan, there may be a question of revision. That is why I have tabled a regulation with other colleagues as a new provision in Article 13(3). Now we're going to the squid worker insurance in Article 98. With this article, which I welcome, the necessary safeguard measures are taken for a special category of workers in a unique field in the country, in the exploitation of smyrna in Naxos. However, I would also like to remind you of an important challenge here, the need for a broader definitive regulation to address the challenges of mining and the exploitation of the empire to move to a new sustainable regime. In this respect, I have made suggestions to the relevant ministries and I will continue to propose regulations in order to deal with this issue in the long term. Finally, I would like to thank both the Ministry and the Prime Minister personally, because the last obstacles to the implementation of the HYTHY project on Tinos have been removed by the decision of the Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u381	Complete, Mr. Comrade,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u382	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Clearly, it is possible to stand on many points of this law, and there are plenty of issues that I have not had the opportunity to raise, due to time. In conclusion, however, I would like to focus on an important point, by the way. This bill sets an opportunity, an opportunity for sustainable development, an opportunity for a truly green economy that will free up forces, of course, while protecting one of the most important wealth positions in the country, our own environmental wealth. This use has challenges. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis knows and can take advantage of this opportunity and make it a success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr. Loading. The speech is now by H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Mera25 Mr. Sophia Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said in the Chamber yesterday. I really feel the need to clarify my position as far as I am concerned. The epidemic, Minister, certainly did not bring the end of history nor abolished the class differences. Of course, the struggle of order continues, even though it had been abolished by your party Minister since the 1970s. At the time of quarantine, a minimum number of privileged ones praised incarceration, personally more secure, while the vast majority of citizens are tortured in its everyday life in conditions of tolerance and depression and anxiety for its future. Not all of us together are happy, happy and united with the future optimistic. The epidemic has shown that the king is naked. The neoliberal version of capitalism has dismantled the national health, care and welfare systems worldwide and left as the only option the downgrading of the roles of society as a whole. And you can't fool anyone: The same policy is the cause of the worst things coming. To dismantle industrial relations, to destroy the primary sector, to close small businesses, to exacerbate social differences and conflicts, to undermine democracy and, ultimately, to deforestation of individual rights. I note that following the phase of the Prime Minister's paternalistic arguments towards society, a new communication strategy has been launched. Yesterday, Mr Hatzidakis, Minister, you resorted to a new kind of populism. You have called on your personal sensitivity to self-evidently, rhetorically highlighting the question "if you too love your children". Of course we all love our children and of course you, Minister, love them. Of course we are concerned about their future and you and the great shareholders of the "ELLENIC FRYS", "LAMDA DEVELOPMENT" and more about their children. However, this is our unprecedented political difference. We are and will be with the parent and child who will suffer the extreme consequences of your policy, with those who have fewer opportunities and certainly no hope of progress. And do not fool yourself, because we are making realistic proposals even within the system. We have a duty, in every way, to oppose the disastrous consequences of your policy by saving what is possible. At the same time, however, we are putting forward an integrated political proposal for the present and the future of your own policy. In his lectures, the Prime Minister wanted to show the image that he puts above all the health of the people. He's disgusting himself. The health of the people is not even a measurable factor in forming your policy. The deterioration of the environment and the quality of life of citizens is completely negligible for you. The Prime Minister now chooses as a political signal from the government to offer gifts to the internationally cooled hydrocarbons industry. In order to ensure a new level of profitability in the mining industry, extractions of oil and gas are permitted in management and protection zones and remove, by Article 110, even the expression of an opinion from the local society on the dangerous and polluting mining process on public land. We therefore also love children who will be forced to live by paying the price of supposed growth in a degraded environment, in a country with damaged ecosystems. We also care for those who suffer from illegal disposal of waste, for which there is no provision, nor any penalty. In fact, you are abolishing the waste transfer licence and it will now suffice to include a simple entry in a register. We care about the crime of converting whole perimeter areas into uncontrolled landfills. Propos the health of the people and effectively abolish the protection of the NATURA regions. Allows all kinds of goods, mining and mining activities and this is called "validation". You are supposedly concerned about the future and you are abolishing the self-sufficiency of the management bodies of protected areas, i.e. the independent bodies that supervised and consulted on protected areas, often putting brakes on uncontrolled activity in these areas. You are even undermining the licensing procedure. You give the audit of environmental impact studies to individuals. At the same time, you put inappropriate, suffocating time limits for service permits, and you know very well - since it is your own work - that the services are understaffed and you even establish a presumption of acceptance in the event of a delay in time, i.e. you have relentlessly introduced the circumvention of the service control. Promote the unreasonable expansion of industrial renewable energy sources and in particular wind energy, while you know that they cause environmental degradation and a disproportionate financial burden on consumers, to ensure only the super-profits of supposed investors. And because, Minister, you have European experience, please tell me which part of Europe you have seen wind turbines and wind farms in mountains, in national parks and in NATURA areas. You are supposed to care about the future of our children and you are arbitrarily legitimizing in forest lands and forests, even in wetlands and streams. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible for me to refer to everything. In front of this bill, all we can say is that we cannot withstand so much love and so much sensitivity. And don't think you're an alibied by the constant reference to SYRIZA's former government. They set you up and they have huge responsibilities, but now it's a store with stolen labels and a make-up window. "You're stealing a church," Minister. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is obvious and undeniable. The government willingly serves specific oligarchic interests, with complete indifference to the catastrophic health and quality of life of the citizens, and today as well as to the absolute contempt for future generations. With absolute respect for history, but also humility, let me close with a passage of a speech that was made in Lamia nearly seventy-five years ago and unfortunately it is always timely: But that is the context of our sensitivity and patriotism. "The capital has no home and runs to find profits in any country like this. That is why he does not care and is not moved by the existence of the borders and the state. While we only have our huts and pedestrians. These, unlike the capital that runs where it finds profits, cannot move and remain within the country we live in." Ladies and gentlemen, let us protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u385	We thank Mrs Sakova for giving her money next year. Please follow them and the next ones. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy and we thank him for speaking from his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u386	Yesterday in my first speech I really tried to explain why this important bill is both topical and topical, because it is the circumstance of this and the situation that has been formed since the pandemic that requires a really fast, immediate and effective start of the economy. And when you do not have the environmental sign of this development start-up, you cannot talk about a fair development, about an ecological, green, sustainable - as you want to say - development, but then go to a debate that can be very critical. However, the rules of this development are guaranteed in this context under the current draft law. It's growth, which has a clean environmental mark. It has a clean eco-label. In many aspects of the draft law, it is clarified, cleared, signalled. Can we get all the debate that's going on in the management of the national parks? Central management, in my view, Minister, was a good choice. You also have European and other such references, but the Greek reality itself showed that it was incomplete to manage the national parks and parks through thirty-six semi-public - public structures, which really did nothing to do with the result of management and protection. Now I believe that with the central report we may achieve this. Plastic bag, renewable energy sources or bazette management. They really are key points that we see in our daily lives. The condition you have put that building permit will not come out, if there is no room where the balls will be deposited, is a crucial element, because the arbitraryness we see in our everyday lives is great. However, we must find the areas that are well known and this thing must be understood to our every fellow citizen. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Yesterday I hinted about the part of the settlements. I told you that in the previous period I had followed SYRIZA's effort as a government, with the leadership of the Ministry by Mr. Tsironi - the ecological component at the time of the government - for the part of the settlements, that is, what? I had, therefore, followed the attempt made at that time by the SYRIZA government to rationalise the arbitrariness created through the forest maps, in relation to the dozens of settlements in our country - I more with reference to the East Attica - and in front of the great dilemma what a government would do when - by finishing the forest maps - thousands of dwellings, thousands of properties, thousands of our fellow citizens would be in the air, because they would not have any legality to determine their home, home and property. The settlements were such a solution. I, therefore, as a member of the State of New Democracy, participated in many conferences of associations, bodies. The SYRIZA parties then came, the Minister himself and supported this version, which was really interesting, which was a reasonable solution. Today, SYRIZA is an Opposition. Today the settlements are under heavy burden in the Chamber. We cannot change our position every three or a little. It was a place that you were responsible for. You had government responsibility, the Council of State did not pass the bill you brought, so there are the predictions in this bill and the proposals and positions of the Council of State. We all have to say yes to that today. Because if we do not say so, our ecological sensitivity will collide with the position of thousands of our fellow citizens, who will be in the air if the tens, hundreds of them, across Greece - and it is not just the Eastern Attica problem - are found in the air. The forest maps - which have been prepared today - have 170,000 objections for half of the country. Do you know how much objections are here in Eastern Attica? Thousands! I as a lawyer - and not as a Member, I would say - have dealt with this problem. I told you yesterday an example, in one property, of forty rights. They've all fallen upstairs. All the time that the forest maps were not available and it was the great backwardness of the Greek state, indeed everyone said what they wanted for every property. The state, the private, the church, the one, the other. The result was this unbearable and unpleasant, at all levels, conflict of interest. The forest map really needs to be the compass, it must be the constant that determines environmental equilibrium and clears the image that the state will have towards everyone, to all properties, whether they are state-owned or private. So, today, a bill comes that makes it easier at this point. What point? To conclude with these objections quickly. Forest maps are pending. Do you know what that means? Flying. Nobody knows what he's got and how he's got it. Do we want this captivity to continue? Let's say it here. We cannot bail out here, go to our areas, lift up the banners of support for the weak, which are the clubs, which are the settlements that are the municipality and have two faces. The face of the ecological in here - I will say, "fake economist" - and "proloaiko" in the areas we are dominating. We must have a common position and a common line. That is why, Minister, I believe it is a bold bill, as I said yesterday. We held meetings with the Municipality of Dionysus on the great problem that exists, Professor, Minister, Mr. Economou, is being confronted, which, with your validity as a professor, you have seen the problem and you are trying to give a solution, but we have to overcome unjustified situations of this kind. In other words, Agios Stefanos - as you know - is a city of fifteen thousand inhabitants on the outskirts of Athens - has no limits because he has not cleared what is a forest, what is the forest, etc. What are we going to do with this town? Let's level her up? Disappear her? Make a suggestion, let's all sit and say. But not to go to Agios Stefanos and say "yes, ownership, yes, in the city" and when we come here to say "we don't know anything, economists". To have one voice, one word, to be fair and consistent and to start judging each other in this consistency or inconsistency of speech. That's all I wanted to say. There are too many, many and large issues. But, with these legislative initiatives that you are taking, the confusion is a little undone. In this bucket, we start a little bit and we find a tip. And please, Minister, and yesterday I made a request - I would like to say about the part of the SPAs, namely the waste transhipment stations, that it is a crucial part of the Eastern Attica. Some municipalities you have included. Put Marathon again, I'm waiting. I have spoken with Mr Grafakos, I have heard that he is positive and the Minister is basically positive. Let us state this, however, because the historic municipality of Marathon is not in your regulation. The municipal authority, but also the world, must know that they are not in the air, that is to say they will not manage the waste in the region in a way that is not prudent and serious, such as a transhipment station, and follow fixed lines within the five years that you have set the margin so that it is no one out of legality. The legality is defined by the State. It is legitimate that Parliament defines it. We will put the framework in place and all the municipalities will move on the basis of this framework. But all the municipalities should be able to get in so that we too can have a security in relation to how the whole region is moving, especially in eastern Attica. I want to thank you and wait for you and your statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u387	SYRIZA MP, Mr Mamulakis, is next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Hatzidakis' bill seems to have been affected by a coronary - plating so-called environmental - because it is based on the principle of famous public consultation, which, in fact, half the articles are unfavourable, but I think so far I think with too many steadfastness, disharmonies and some of them I will be further exuding. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law reveals the different way in which the New Democracy and SYRIZA perceives the environment and especially the institutions that protect it. Mr Hatzidakis proudly told us yesterday and today that his party is in favour of entrepreneurship, apparently unlike us SYRIZA, when we see businessmen, we are changing the sidewalk, according to the New Democracy. Is it a problem that the Minister is envisioning a new cycle of environmental investment? Answer: Clearly and not! The Green European Agreement has given the signal and means for the direction of European investment over the next decade. The future belongs to the green transformation of the European economy. The instruments available to Europe for this purpose before the crisis could not be enough, but the prospect was clear. The objectives of the European Green Agreement are becoming even more topical today when we are at the threshold, one more, unfortunately, new and deep recession, from which we will only come out through a large round of public or even public investment planning. Where are these investments going to be? In the energy transition, environmental infrastructure, the cyclical economy, the greening of all modes of transport and transport infrastructure. But is green only one field of investment? The answer here is easy: No. Moreover, the logic of an ecological transition serves the objective of sustainability and the maintenance of our country's sensitive environmental resources. This draft law is therefore characterised by the very above contradictions. In order to strengthen green investment, it sacrifices green, to strengthen renewable energy sources, it tramples the environment, to boost investment in recycling, sacrifices the cyclical economy, to enhance investments in ecotourism, destroys the NATURA regions. Let us take the case of the changes made by the Minister to the country's environmental licensing system. The Act has strict deadlines for issuing environmental permits, extends the life span of existing energy-intensive GDP, decisions to approve environmental conditions throughout the country and privatises the environmental control system by granting the relevant public function to the same study offices that compile it. One in this Chamber would even talk about the democracy of scholars, if I remember correctly. And because Mr Hatzidakis yesterday brought examples of European countries with a longer life expectancy than in the Greek system, let us look at his pro-European profile. Firstly, in countries such as Great Britain and the Netherlands, to which you referred, Mr Hatzidakis, the administration automatically reviews the contents of GDP at regular intervals and with enhanced control mechanisms and calls on those in charge within three months to comply. If we agree on this, I would ask that a similar provision be included in your draft law, Mr Secretary-General. Secondly, the horizontal non-confidential extension of the duration of GDP by law is not in line with Union law, and that is what has already been pointed out to you by organisations such as WWF and other environmental organisations. Thirdly, the assessment of the amendments of a GDP in material cm on the substance of the same investor directly infringes the letter of the relevant European directives. Therefore, the provisions on the amendment of environmental legislation do not try to balance between economic necessity and environmental protection. They're abolishing the second for the first. A characteristic example of this concept of investment in the environment is the provisions of the draft law on solid waste and biowaste. Mr. Grafakos is missing. I wanted to complete specific tactics with which he legislates or, anyway, advises the Minister. Efforts have been made, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, to strengthen these two flows. As we know, it's recyclable and biowaste. In biowaste, therefore, many municipalities in the country in recent years, of course with the support and support of the SYRIZA government, have taken many actions, biowaste plants, biowaste SMA, cafés and extension to all municipalities. We are now coming with this uncertainty, the humiliation, the prolongation of the three years to break down a process initiated by the municipalities and the citizens of both sides of industry, had gone ahead and had already brought a great deal of results. Incidentally, at this point, I can tell you that we are still waiting for the tracking, the evolution of the really innovative and shallow environmental park of cyclical economy in the Municipality of Heraklion. The commitments made by the Secretary-General were supposed to be in a phase of implementation, in a phase of integration into a processing plant, etc. In this area, as we are left with solid waste, I would like to make a point about attempting to legislate with regard to operators. Three are the island regions in our country, the northeast Aegean, the southeast Aegean and the Ionian Sea. You've done a salad. The municipalities of the Ionian Islands break their garments. The southeastern Aegean likewise. As far as the north-east is concerned, obviously because Mr. Moutzouris is no longer pleasing, the case has been excluded. I think you will have a big problem, a very big problem, and the projects that are in existence in the NSRF in these areas and in the management of landfill chips which others have saturated and others have many problems. Why? For transferring all responsibilities to a new body without proper provision for its staffing support - it is a multitude of engineers and it takes space time to be able to move forward and join the new body - that will cost the country many million euros to the NSRF. The Minister today needs to give answers why in these and only in those grade 1 regions they will be deprived of the right to make their decisions, but instead they come OTA B grades, which I think is inconsistent with the rest of the country. Let me make a reference to the last-minute amendment concerning PPC and PPC International. Yes, Mr. Thomas did. Mr. Hatzidakis, rather with the guidance of his communicationists, is actually making huge efforts to be mild, serious and to give the impression that he knows what he is doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u389	So, if he hadn't had any communicationists, what would he be?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u390	I don't know. It's a question put to the public. Even when he has no idea, like in the case of DEPA. Why am I saying that? Mr. Hatzidakis, in your programming statements you mentioned here from the Step of the House and after you have denounced us for ideology and detention, that the DEPA will be sold as a single company. Obviously then you were ignoring the reasons why the previous SYRIZA government, convincing the European institutions, firstly, had chosen to break up and, secondly, had chosen to keep the networks under public control together with international projects. The reason was obvious. International projects are not of interest to individuals. But they're interested in us. They are interested in the country, its position in the international division of labour and the international and national economy. As these projects have long periods of study and related costs, the previous government also provided the means to finance them and through the proceeds of the Networks PPA. Three months later, Mr Hatzidakis, taking office you are leaking that the project is changing and that the PPA will indeed be sold in two sections, as this brings the country closer to the unbundling logic, as determined by European directives. Obviously, neither the potential investors of the Network PPA wanted international projects. So today Mr. Hatzidakis comes with this amazing plan. The country's share-holding in East Med, for which he has so much celebrated - and rightly so - must be transferred to the hydrocarbon management company and the ELPEs to become partners with the procuring agency from which they claim the recovery land, the hydrocarbon land. The NSA, ladies and gentlemen of the Competitiveness, exists so that the operator of the contracts notices on hydrocarbon sites has the required independence and flexibility from the central state, the political influence and the economic interests of the candidate contractors. What do you think today? The EESC will participate in a company that will create infrastructure projects by changing the value of the assets being auctioned and will participate in a project that, when implemented, will be a participant with the same private sector entities that will make their money for the implementation of such projects. There is no greater conflict of interest than that. To validate the logic of revolving doors between the public and the private sector, you are also slackening the conditions for participation in the boards of these companies, and you are scandalously increasing the fees for these companies, the well-known double up, from EUR 4,000 to EUR 8 000. In conclusion, today's bill in all its appearances deals with the public's institutions and policy tools for managing environmental resources as enemies of entrepreneurship. The central ideas that run this sea by heterogeneous provisions are the deregulation of public environmental control functions, the dismantling of institutions with presence and projects in the resolution of the ecological problems of our country and, of course, the mobilisation of any environmental responsibilities in the central state to organise the depopulation of the environment by friends to you businessmen. Upstairs. For all these reasons, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u391	Mr George Amyras, Member of the Ioannina Parliament, of the New Democracy, is now next to speak from his position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u392	To facilitate the process and save time. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will break tradition and remain in the bill, despite the fact that they have suffered violent abuses with very bad characterisations. I am used to them, as I had suffered the same in the previous House and by the ANELs and by the Golden Dawn. So I live in the environmental bill. When we talk about the environment we must have in mind and climate change. These two things are now intertwined. If we want to place ourselves on this bill positive or negative, we have to answer a question from now on. What do we want? Wind generators or fuel oil? I think our grandparents had first given this answer to windmills, but this alone is not enough. Greece has a added value and a lot of energy weapons in its hands. It's the sun, it's the wave, it's the air, it's all these power from the rivers. And that is where this bill comes in with absolute protection and speed up the use of our energy potential and reserves. Of course, this bill takes the top priority of protecting the diversity of landscapes, ecosystems, biodiversity and sustainability. That's the two-speaking bill. But how are all this going to happen? Immobile? Doing a peculiar zen? By constantly postponing to tomorrow and the day after that, what should have been done years ago? Oh, no. The Mitsotakis government dares. He's messing with the hard stuff. He is trying to resolve situations that were chronic and problematic in terms of the energy and environmental dimension of this place. Isn't the Mitsotakis Government doing the same thing with the issue of immigration? Didn't he do the same with the coronary? Didn't he do the same with that peculiar invasion of Evros? He was ready and he was ahead to solve problems and open up new roads, because that is the obligation of each government. The Mitsotakis Government is not afraid of responsibility. This bill has three features. First, speed. The authorisations for renewable energy sources will now be made in times when the whole of Europe follows. Second of all, it's unprecedented. No more paperwork, no more thousands of contradictory suggestions, two hundred fifty different services. Thirdly, it proposes clean energy. What we want and what the Environment Ministry's bill achieves is to have clean investments with strict, strict controls and high standards on the results of these investments. I told you about the replica of this bill. Of course, we had thirty-six protected areas, many of which did not even have the IAA, had no resources, and now we are reaching from thirty-six to twenty-eight unified, with a body supervising, with a body providing guidance, with resources, both from the budget and from the European funds, and of course with the staffing of these bodies by APA procedures. This is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many other things that need to be done. I'll come to the president's places in Metsovo. There's a plateau over Chrysovitsa, where at an altitude of 1400 meters, people put potatoes. They put it in May and the harvest takes place in October. It's a mythical, beautiful place. The people of need put the potato there in 1941, when the Germans entered Greece and advanceed to the north. Thus, the inhabitants of Chrysovitsa went up on the plateau, where they had barley, put potatoes and see where they did diapers, because this potato is to be a product of high nutritional value and great taste, since it distinguishes them from many kinds of potatoes throughout Greece. But when they go in the spring, dear Minister, the residents reset the potato, the rural roads, which are legitimate streets, are all destroyed. Forestry does not allow for almost any repair of these dirt roads, it does not have asphalt, and every year, we have the same problem and demand. There are a lot of young people who make a big one, and I ask the Ministry of the Environment to put them forward so that we can solve them. There is also a lot to be done in connection with the revision and reform of the legislation on amateur fishing in inland waters, namely rivers and lakes. Up to an altitude, the police have it, from an altitude and above the forest service, i.e. there is a bureaucratic mill. Many amateur licences need to be granted, we need to know who is fishing where, to disperse them, so that we can regulate the fishing pressure and show this comparative advantage of the environment, not only in our region, in Epirus, but throughout Greece. We also read today about some foreigners who were arrested because they had been rooted out of the mountains of Grammon ninety-five pounds of a flower called "the flower of Darwin". This flower, dried in Germany, costs and sells 50 thousand euros a kilo. It is therefore a national wealth. Management plans are being carried out, but more organisation is needed, greater coordination of services, forests, administrative and police authorities, so that this treasure is not broken down, that this treasure is not lost. Of course, he could give work to too many young people, young farmers or those who would like to return to their land, to their grandparents' fields to cultivate the flower of Darwin. As I know, the Epirus region has grown some experimental crops and are starting to catch. We also need to do something with the grazing management plans. We need digital imaging and recording of grazing land, so that we know where there is a gaze for grazing and where there is no conflict, no overlapping. The grazing land is also part of the comparative advantage of Greek livestock farming. I end up and go back to our places with the President, Lake Pambotida, at the beautiful lake of Ioannina and finish with a good news. Recently, a kind of fish called the pellasgus epirota has reappeared. Fishermen found it for the first time after too many years. The University of Ioannina and the institution did a job, they recorded it, but the lake of Ioannina also needs help, because the water bulbs have been closed, they have been flung, there are no longer sources to renew water. They need management plans. And here's a first challenge of the new integrated body, the management bodies, to bring back with great effort the ecosystem of Lake Pambotidas, the beautiful lake of Ioannina in its original form. I invite you all to visit the Yanna. I think the President has invited you, too. Mr President, Mr Tsipras, you are also artisan, so I think you will have one more reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u393	We are also grateful to Mr Amyras for not breaking time, but instead he has been particularly pitiful. The Member of the Movement of Change I of Athens Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis has a turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I followed the Prime Minister very carefully this morning, who presented the bill. In my mind, it systematically creates an image of government effective, aware and technocratic adequacy. After taking credit from the health care of the pandemic - not even for the economic crisis, which its results will be judged, I fear, in the next few months and will be very difficult to test - he warned us that within a few weeks, less than twelve, he will table and vote twenty-six important bills, and even by a full parliamentary procedure. The first is today, on a crucial subject that carries time-consuming work, but also in time for the time being, is at the heart of events and developments and questions. The first question that comes to my mind is what is the full parliamentary procedure? Is this how he will vote tomorrow and the migration that I read and I think he has even more problems than that? We're talking about a model of bad legacy. There is no consultation, another bill in consultation, another in the House, twice the size and number of articles, an endless list of articles with the content of a scissors, such as hydrocarbons mining, spatial planning, incorporation of European Union directives, photographic provisions, arrangements, changes, but also some very positive points that we are going to vote on. But, in fact, this is a genome. If, in terms of parliamentary work, it is the first act to return to normality, it is a bill which, in my opinion, suffers in terms of democracy and the procedure and the proper functioning of Parliament. I think that both the President of the Change Movement and our parliamentary representative and our rapporteur have analysed very systematically all of our articles and objections to the bill, and they have also said what the articles we will be voting on are. I shall confine myself to four general remarks. What are the objectives of such an important institutional framework for today's needs? The first objective is to solve existing weaknesses. For example, in Olympus, Karpathos, or in Messochori, an immigrant who returns after forty years finds some vegetarians, as they say, in his field and cannot exploit his property. In order to solve this, it had to come to decisions at the centre and at the signatures of the ministers. Today this problem is not solved, Minister. It is not solved because it comes back from local society, which no longer has any reason at regional level. The procedures are not concentrating. That is, I believe, an important point, such as a second point concerning existing weaknesses, is the most important issue for the arbitrary. We have found the problem, which the previous governments have not really solved, in the woodlands, we are passing it, we are deferring it for the future, and it is obviously not going to be solved. The fact is, therefore, that it does not solve key issues that will give rise to environmental issues for many more decades. The second is to deal with bureaucracy. In some cases, however, it generally focuses on the decisions, and this also appears in the next bill and in the way that the Ministry of Migration will do. We'll see it in practice in a few hours. I would like to say that all the procedures and functions are then taken in the same direction. Concentration at the Prime Minister's office of the large portion of the important decisions that a Prime Minister's office cannot take and then lets the ministers take the individual cases, decide against regional and local institutions. The third is whether it protects the environment. Fortunately you withdrew the article 99, because it was spilled too much ink in the past few years on the topic related to hotels in the center of Athens and in the Metaxoglou, which I believe should not go back to the spatial planning nor change the current construction that exists in the area. The same applies to mining in the NATURA regions, and here again the inability of local communities to draw a concrete view on these issues. Fourthly, which concerns linking growth to the ecological balance and renewing the environmental resources to be used in the conditions of social cohesion and making the environmental strategy an organic point and, in fact, disbursing, for example, renewable energy sources on a purely business basis. This is a classic conservative policy which does not lead to the relaunch of the economy on the substance, but to the perpetuation and reproduction of the same problems. I want to make a general comment before I finish. I read in the papers a fear from many analysts that following this pandemic process, the need to strengthen health services will shift environmental issues in the future and will undermine the other natural disasters that we have experienced in the Amazon and all the others we have experienced in previous years. On the contrary, I believe that the protection of life on the planet has a double objective, from the one hand the humanitarian objective which is to protect human life, which requires a strong social state, is coexistent with the ecological balance and the renewal of environmental resources and requires a corresponding and synonymous protection with human beings. In other words, a wider strategy is needed, especially now that the universal project is dominated by the political life of all states. Globalization within its own good and bad has a good one, that the problems are currently being understood throughout the world. I believe that this development plan should have a genuinely new integrated development strategy that puts economic, environmental, environmental and environmental priorities in place to enable the country to make a real reform of the environmental structures linked to this wider strategy. But, as in the previous bills that you brought as a government, in the name of the reforms you bring in substantial bills, and these transitional bills do not give a substantial answer. They make a impression, they seem to be a labor therapy, they seem all of this, but this is not the best proof that there is an effective government, consciously and technocraticly. In conclusion, Mr President, I sometimes think that when we talked about greenhouses, climate change, ozone emissions, green development, you were all accused of talking about 'green horses' ten years ago. I would like to remind you that history is fortunately inconsistent with the amnesia and the memory I have brought to my mind is an attempt that we have made to unite on a fact that claims to have a say in the things of the country and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u395	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. Mr Alexis Tsipras, President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my position on the issue that Mr Scandalidis initially raised in his speech, and that is no other than the procedure through which we are discussing very critical bills, such as today. The procedure is not a secondary issue. Until yesterday, the government in the name of the emergency, with the consent of the parties, legislated by legislative acts and on matters which had no consent to go beyond the pandemic. Today that we are in this second phase, which we must of course keep our distance, the House must be through a process which will obviously not be all Members present at the same time, the government decides on a series of legislative plans which it obviously had in the drawer - its right - to do so in the next three months. Twenty-six bills. This does not justify any state of emergency and there will be no such twenty-six bills, which are crucial to many of them, to be promoted through a process in which the House will be backed up, where there will be restrictions on the hearings of bodies, where there will be limitations on the meetings of the committees concerned. The most crucial thing is, in my view, an issue that I took the initiative and informed the President of Parliament this morning about our vertical disagreement. Parliament cannot, when a request for a roll-call vote is made on the part of the opposition parties, vote through the letter of vote, because this is not only in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the House, but is in breach of the Constitution. As you well know, those who have better legal knowledge than me and have studied law - I have studied engineers, but I understand that - cannot change the Constitution by any decision of the Conference of Presidents. Even with a decision to amend the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution cannot be changed. Article 70 of the Constitution expressly states that the letter of vote is only provided for missions by parliament or government abroad. Actually, what's going on here? In order to speak among us - in any case the Greek people are listening to us, but to speak the Greek people's language - they are entrusting the secretaries of the parliamentary groups with the vote of conscience which the Constitution itself stipulates that it must be given by the Member in person by his presence in Parliament, not by his letter to the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group. When this is done for critical bills in the next period, a major issue of democratic order and parliamentary function arises. In this tactic, we are not going to consent. I have asked the President to have the necessary consultations so that this does not happen again. Obviously we are living a peculiar, unprecedented situation. But it could be through five successive presences of sixty Members in the Chamber that there might be two and two and a half to three hours of voting, that the sixty to vote electronically - not even five minutes - would be possible to leave and then a quarter to come. There are solutions. You rejected our proposal, as laid down by the Rules of Procedure, to become Summer Sections with a presidential decree. It is clear why you rejected it. Politicians serve purposes. However, in the name of the pandemic, we are not going to go now to adopt any other kind of purposes which remove the very logic of parliamentary function, destroy it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the question of Parliament's democratic functioning and functioning in the peculiar conditions we live in is not a secondary one, and that is why I am starting from it and taking some time from my position on the bill. And I say this because I feel that from the government's point of view there is a intention to settle a situation of exception which has been created and caused by pandemic. I heard the Prime Minister this morning and was very surprised that he had to comment on the gathering of a protest outside the House yesterday by representatives of ecological organisations and non-governmental organisations. Suddenly he was caught by the pain that those people who gathered, while respecting as far as they could - it was not a great concentration - are health risks because they do not comply with the rules. The pain caught the Prime Minister. But when he called the mayor on the phone and asked him to change his way out of Maximos, the truck that had a concert and called on journalists and television crews to immortalize him at this supposedly spontaneous moment, he was not affected by distances that were not observed. Now he was hurt by people, representatives of non-governmental organisations and environmental organisations who were not invited to consult to protest against the bill tabled by Mr Hatzidakis. Don't say anything - and I will say no - and ruin this nice soup of unanimity, of absolute unanimity, of an exact amount paid, for the price of EUR 20 million in advertising pie, in the form of shared, unreported accountability, without transparency, on a different flawed website - the right and left, in order to create this plastic image of virtual reality, I will say. Because society doesn't bleed. Society today is faced with an unprecedented situation. Except that this situation is not normal. It's a difficult situation, and as long as it's difficult. Mr. Hatzidakis, by the way, I want to make a comment. You're the Minister of Energy and the Environment. Now 'Environment' has a little bit taken off the scene. You have been involved so far, until you filed this bill, more with energy. But, you are, one would say, of the ministers who are aware of economic reality. I don't know if you're participating in the financial staff meetings. I imagine no, but it is not unknown "writings" for you. Is this chaos possible with the forecast for the material rhythms in 2020? Does this indicate a government image she knows where she's going, which she can plan for the next day? We heard the Minister of Finance at the beginning of the crisis talking to us about growth close to 0% and brought a package of measures to the government's financial staff. Then the Minister of Finance re-examined and told us that the recession would be higher, that it would be 2% -3%. However, the package of measures has not substantially changed. Last week the Minister of Finance came and told us that it would be 4.7% the recession in 2020. Same package. Go on, add some extensions and the repayable aid, with very strict business criteria. Last Thursday, 4,7% did it 7.9% of the Minister of Finance. And even yesterday he was speaking here in the House on a question from Euclid Tsakalotos spoke to him about 7.9%. At the same time as he was talking about 7.9%, the Prime Minister at the CNN said that it would be 10% the recession. Apart from the fact that this is incomprehensible - that if you on Monday, Wednesday, on Friday, you are taking up the recession by two points, I will start to worry about where it will be next week - that you do not have a picture of what we are coming at, the crucial issue is that neither when Mr Stourras said 7.9% nor when Mr Mitsotakis anticipated 10% yesterday you have thought about these measures that you announced when the forecast was 0% or 2% -3% recession to change them. Either 2% the recession or 10% the same measures. The question is: Why? Isn't there the money? So said Mr. Mitsotakis at our previous meeting here. "We have no money," he said. You are tempted to talk about money from direct awards or stolen trees - because these are not money - of false training programmes. I will say, however, for the money you have on the pages of the bill you have in front of you, Minister, when for the heads of energy agencies, the Greek Hydrocarbon Management Company, the President, the Vice President and the CEO, there is an opportunity to pay salaries of eight thousand euros. That is what you are bringing in an amendment. But I will not insist on that either. I will say that the EUR 37 billion, which the SYRIZA government left as a reserve in society and the economy from good management of the previous period, is not money. It's real money. And the crucial question is why you do not take advantage of this package, this liquidity pillow ahead in order to reduce as far as possible the consequences of this recession, which, from week to week, you yourself, with your forecasts, are multiplying it and you are constantly reviewing your forecasts worse. What about this money? Here's no numbers. Behind the numbers are hiding human lives, market padlocks, redundancies, businesses that collapse, people who fall into unemployment, demoralized dreams, devastated lives. So your forecasts of the money to be given to the real economy do not change, and there is money. All that changes is how you try to deal with those who until yesterday, the so-called middle class. You called them housewives and backbone of the Greek economy until yesterday. Today, however, you call them batons and their businesses are called zombies, as they said, if I am not mistaken, yesterday the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Zavos. Who, then, are these zombie businesses? Give you an answer. The ones who are struggling to reopen? Those who owe VAT and don't know what's going to take them out of the morning? Those who couldn't have even been able to pass outside the banks before, because they didn't borrow them? The ones that were excluded from the repayable advance, from the guarantees? Are these the zombie business? All of this needs answers, answers to this world, not to me. I come to the issues of the brooms legislation, which you brought to the vote on today. Because the broom term fits here. You are not trying to clean up the environmental safeguards and take advantage of development, but here you are trying to clean up a broom, because you are actually coming to dismantle the institutional framework that governs the environment in our country. Mr Mitsotakis spoke of overregulation today. When there's overregulation, what does it need? It needs deregulation. That's what you're doing. And you are even destroying the European directives, deregulation of the whole of the country's environmental policy and environmental functions. The elasticisation of environmental legislation, in order to encourage the exploitation of resources, through a wild, non-sustainable development, is sure - I say - that it will cause serious environmental effects, but also the quality of life of all of us and the Greek society itself. Since our rapporteurs have been well placed in a number of aspects of the bill, I, for example, would point out some key points in this bill. First point, in relation to the environmental licensing of business. For all defenders of neoliberalism, environmental licensing, unfortunately, is treated as a timeless administrative process unnecessary and as an important blocking factor in promoting investment and development. In your legislation, environmental licensing is amended and limited by case-law, where specific interests are ultimately served. The proposal to simplify environmental licensing, as described in the draft law, leads to its effectively abolishing, circumventing Article 24 of the Constitution, according to which it is an obligation of the State to protect the environment. But I, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, want to warn you about something. Your insistence on linking the relaunch of the economy and growth simply by speeding up environmental licensing will ultimately have the opposite effect. By pursuing the supposed acceleration, without a substantial evaluation of the studies and imposing suffocating deadlines, you are now creating conditions of legal insecurity for serious investors. The delays or even cancellations due to actions will not only be eliminated after your intervention, but will be multiplied, more will be done. So those who have convinced you that breaching environmental protection legislation is a pro-investment or pro-development strategy, let me say that they are completely foolish, because in practice they will be the opposite. Environmental licensing is a good thing for entrepreneurship and not an enemy. For the serious entrepreneurship, of course, not for the predator's entrepreneurship. Because the environment must be seen as a development resource and not as an obstacle that we must overcome. Secondly, the Management Bodies of Protected Areas and the NATURA regions. Your bill abolishes management bodies, a model tested for years, decentralised and participatory. You replace it with a model strictly controlled by the central state, without genuine involvement of local government and civil society. The new administration system does not involve procedures for involving local communities, municipalities, communities, local authorities, managing decisions, in total contrast with what is happening in the rest of Europe and with appropriate European practices. In this way, you put in direct danger protected areas. In combination with the provisions on zones and permitted uses within the NATURA network, we pass through a regime where the state was the guarantor of environmental protection, in a regime where, if possible, everything is allowed everywhere. Point 3, for forest maps. You are introducing arrangements for forest maps that may lead to a long delay, even to a definitive freeze of a major reform that has finally taken place in our place after forty years of unfulfilled constitutional check. I am referring to the reform of the suspension and ratification of forest maps, where in 2015, when we took over the governance of the site, we had dominated forest maps only 1% of the country's territory. Thanks to our initiative and actions and efforts, in May 2019 we had posted forest maps for 55% of the land and dominated forest maps for 44%. So you are now coming by continuing the same practice of the past 40 years, wanting to pete ears, proposing changes that call into question not only the posted but also the dominated forest maps. Even the Technical Chamber and the Citizens' Counselor rushed to raise a question of lack of legal certainty in relation to this intervention on your part in the bill. Of course, bearing in mind that you do not go ahead with the approved intake of forests and forests, what we understand is that you are aiming to open up a new cycle of opposition to the dominated forest maps and to blow up a very important reform for the country. Fourthly, it is the waste management issues. Despite the government's announcements on the revision of the National and Regional Waste Management Plans, so that our country can acquire a new, realistic, modern design, with this draft law you are once again committing a strategic error in the management of waste in our country. Drive the waste management model only to privatisation and combustion. Your policy does not support recycling, it does not support the circular economy. You do not implement the legislative incentives and counter-incentives for recycling, but, in addition, you lead to a new financial burden on citizens and businesses. I am going to make a special reference to Article 93, which is the absolute application of the unconsulted piece of legislation. Because here, while it concerns the management of solid waste in the islands and changes the organisation and operation of the land's Solid Waste Management Boats, the stakeholders, the municipalities of the South Aegean Region and the Ionian Islands and the CEDE did not have any knowledge of your initiative. Their reaction, therefore, is fair and is rightly direct and rightly intense. And they don't belong in SYRIZA, as far as I know, all of them, Minister. Fifth point, for IPTO. Really, why didn't the Prime Minister say a word about it this morning? Forgottenly, or are you trying to promote a privatization beyond and outside logic? It's also out of place and time. Because, all right, if you were to promote this before the pandemic, it would be, in any case, not compatible with the logic - we are talking about a profitable organism, a body that we fought with nails and teeth to keep 51%, a company which has shown that it can under public control carry out complex projects and carry on foreign investments - to want to sell it out. This would be compatible with your perception of neoliberal, but not compatible with logic. Now, however, it's completely out of place and time. Because with pandemic all over the world - not in Europe, everywhere - they are talking about a new role of the state anymore, of public space. Not only in the public health system, nowhere at this time are privatization. You move here and effectively remove 51% of the State's occupation and you do not put any other percentage on it. So, what can we conclude? We will conclude that at will you intend to sell what some want to grab. And one final comment on Article 119, which relaxes the authorisation procedures for mining, industrial processes. This is only a generous gift to the "Hellenic Chrysos". What did the ad say? "Because gold brings us closer," the advertising said. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, which we have before us, in our view is a bill that deregulations, serves interests and creates enormous social tensions, destroys values and hasty decades in the fight against civil society for environmental protection. It is not, obviously, out of total government policy - I have to say this - because, after the takeover of governance, you are precisely implementing a series of reforms both in the environment and in energy and in spatial planning, decentralising our own governance and previous ones. You systematically dismantle the institutional framework and further weaken the functions of the state and self-government in the fields of environmental protection and public planning. Promote the privatization of public goods. And, of course, you are doing all of this while you are seeking to rebuild a development model, which is exactly what led us to the crisis: focusing on speculative over-use of land and natural resources, focusing on building and real estate, with a complete depreciation of public space and natural environmental goods and with irreversible disasters - I would add - to threaten our natural and urban environment. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is it? The oxymomile is that while the government does all this, and in particular Mr Mitsotakis, it is at the same time fond of being self-promoting and presenting itself as a pro-environmentist as an economist. It's an economist who's been trying to change Article 24 for twenty years. I don't know how much an economist it might be. It is, it says, an economist, because since 2004 he has participated in the Committee on the Environment. That is not enough to be an economist. Mr Mitsotakis - but also you - has made the issue of lignite a flag. I, Mr Hatzidakis, call on you - and I call on Mr Mitsotakis - to go together in western Macedonia, to go to Kosani, Ptolemais, Florina, and to consult with the actors in the region, with the inhabitants, with the social actors, with the MPs, and to highlight our positions, our plan for demilitarisation. Suddenly you discovered 2028 until the end of lignite. Where does that come from? I was going to tell you tomorrow morning - I'm a more ecologist than you - in 2021. Why don't we shut it down? But do we have a plan? Do we have a fair transition plan? These are hollow words, it is a communication policy, because your choice does not lead to the necessary climatic neutrality, for which we committed ourselves at the European Council last June, to the country, it does not guarantee the country's energy security, it does not guarantee the low energy costs and, above all, what we call 'fair transition to lignite areas', as we had planned and prepared. What's your policy doing? It replaces lignite with natural gas and not with Renewable Energy Sources. Even for lignite areas, the alternative of natural gas is chosen, by means of natural resources and networks that are privatised. And despite the most announcements of the "fair transition", to date you have not spent or announced a single euro, not even from the Fair Transition Fund left by the SYRIZA Government with EUR 60 million, making Greece the first country of Europe which financed the "fair transition". Ladies and gentlemen, we have, of course, been criticised - and it is conducted in many respects - in other words, well-meaning, otherwise malicious - that is the policy - for our own term of office. I don't mean to say we did everything right. But we received the country in bankruptcy. Our first concern was not how to manage 37 billion you left us, but the empty funds and the neck nipple to drown us. And there is no doubt that we have made mistakes. However, - and I am talking about the environment - we have managed, under unfavourable conditions, to promote progressive, modernised areas which have been pending for decades. We have legislated and taken initiatives on the natural environment, legislation on NATURA, forest maps, the national forest strategy, waste management, the National Plan for Management, the Strategy for the 'cyclical economy', spatial planning, land register, laws on spatial planning and arbitrary construction, the national energy and climate plan, the energy communities, the framework for competitive processes for Renewable Energy, the separation of energy sectors. And we also caught the target of carbon dioxide emissions for 2020. These were important successes. Of course, conditions change, life changes. And 2020 -- and before the coronary, how much later - it's not the same as in 2015. And Mr Mitsotakis said today - and he may be right about this - that the conflict in terms of hydrocarbons deposits may be about being a shadow - we will see it - and therefore deserve a very intense debate and self-criticism within us, with sincerity and courage - as a country to move, because the natural beauty of our country is the greatest added value, the greatest asset we have, to direct to another strategy, a strategy that will not jeopardise the environment and security in the face of possible accidents. And I'm talking about hydrocarbons and minerals. But I would like to close my intervention, if you like, by putting on the ideological, visionary framework, because there are two different models here: the model of productive reconstruction with respect for the environment and the dominant model of over-exploitation and arbitraryness. We believe that environmental protection should be at the heart of the country's strategy for the next few decades, involving citizens, creating quality jobs, restoring the tools of public and democratic planning. We believe that we should focus on making use of the available Renewable Energy Sources, making use of domestic scientific knowledge and the existing possibilities for social innovation, especially at local level. For us left-wing, progressive, ecologists, socialists, the transition to a greener future cannot be left to the market and its uncontrolled rules. This is a process that must strengthen and activate the working forces, the social economy actors, the local institutions, all active citizens. On the contrary, with your allergy to everything that the public - state - said it until yesterday - we believe that public space and environmental planning, with the participation of citizens, is a key area of policy to tackle social and regional inequalities and to sustainable development, especially today, when tackling the climate crisis has now become urgent and existential. So your bill comes, I'd say, long ago, from the lions of the failed neoliberal model. Especially in the period of the new crisis the planet faces, the COVID crisis -19, this model shows how close it has. It liberates dynamics that lead us backwards. Instead, our model releases dynamics that claim real quality of life and society upright, setting the issues of ecology in the front line. The Prime Minister closed this morning, ladies and gentlemen of the government, remembering an old slogan not of the refreshing Left. He was probably confused by one of the many former centre-left journalists - writers in his office. It wasn't on the refreshing left. It was a slogan of the 2000s of the movement for alternative globalisation that said "Another world is possible" and not "another world can be better", as Mr.Mitsotakis said this morning. Look, there is another slogan now, the new slogan of the global ecological movement that says "Shang the system, not the climate". Greta is a pioneer in this new movement. And when the system says, you know what it means. It means a world that is not based on the exploitation of human labour and the exploitation of natural resources. That's what he means. In our country, because you, especially as a party, represent what we call the "system", perhaps the motto "Switch the system, not the climate" should become "Swap government, not the climate". [[Applause from the wing of the Radical Left coalition]] I therefore believe that, yes, another progressive government that will focus on the needs of the environment and people is feasible and deserves us. Mr President, I am sorry to say this: in view of everything I have said in the introductory wording on how to legislate and, precisely, because we are not prepared to give the message that this procedure of editorial vote, by violating both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, but also the express of critical bills can continue, I am in the unpleasant position to inform you that we will not legalise this procedure, because we do not want to go through the message that, without the consent of the Civilian Vice-President, institutional procedures can be circumvented because it is a question of democracy. So we will leave the process and I hope it is the first and last time this is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u397	Aren't you going to hear a disgusting answer I want to give you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u398	That's not your role.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u399	Are you gonna hear or leave? Because you voted for me and because I know how well I am - so I'm 'go' for so many years - I ask you not to listen to anything you consider reasonable or even bless what I am about to say for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u400	I shall listen to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u401	Let the government answer us. Are you going to answer us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u402	Mr Tsipras, the President of SYRIZA, said something very well when he first spoke here in the debate on the first briefing made by the Prime Minister. We call it the level of party leaders, but that's not exactly it. It is Rule 142a of the Rules of Procedure. He quite rightly said that "It is awkward time to talk to so few MPs, but that's what it is. We are forced by the circumstances." It was awkward moments that we had to decide how to operate at the beginning of March, very awkward. We were not used to or ready for this kind of operation of the House. However, it had to be awkward to replace it with a machine of inventivity, which combines a whole range of things, but first of all, the protection of the life of Members of Parliament and officials, but also the protection of an example that we had to emit in a society that had been completely lost with what was happening around us. We said that we would limit the speeches and plenary sittings to a type of organised debate - for example in the organised debate - in its more consistent quantitative form and do not make use of what the Constitution allows us - because you mentioned, Mr President, the Constitution - to legislate. I do not know if many Members know - it is a spooky provision - that the Constitution allows the committees to legislate and we have freed up this possibility and brought it to plenary. Listen for a minute, I'll be done. I have a right to speak for a while, too. So we said about the way in which we operate, and we said about the votes, about the presumption that the rapporteurs would vote, and we said about the roll-call votes. And we said exactly what Mr Tsipras said today, but we talked about it on 12 March. "If the issue of a roll-call vote with the electronic system arises, the vote shall be taken by an open system for an hour or more so that the Members will gradually come at ease of time and without an alphabetically conspiracy." In other words, what Mr Tsipras said is not to coincide with two hundred and fifty or three hundred Members in Parliament at the same time. First thirty to forty, then the next one. And we have also made the possibility of a letter of formal vote in proportion to the provision of the Rules of Procedure rather than the Constitution. Note one detail: The Constitution in Article 70(7) does not define a letter of vote. The Constitution says that the Rules of Procedure will set out how Members on the outside will vote. We chose the letter. But we have added to the Rules of Procedure, without the Constitution saying so, and the right of other categories of Members to vote without saying so in the Constitution, as are current colleagues for a period of time before and after giving birth. So should I invoke the Constitution and cancel these votes? I would like to say to you that we have been flexible and have been adapters without the Constitution talking about this number of colleagues. That is how we have said as long as the closure takes us to vote in a supplementary ballot. That's not going to happen all the time. It is obviously not going to take place in secret votes, despite the fact that the Constitution allows secret ballot to be secret, and obviously the more we open it up the way Members are involved in all of this. I wanted to say all this because it was admittedly a management that started awkwardly. We're looking at making it as extensive as possible. We are voting, Mr President, for the first time in five years - now, with the crisis, with the closure - at meetings which are different for the articles and for the beginning. It has five years to do this, in the first eight months of the current government and in the previous years. We have full parliamentary control. I think I was entitled to say all this because we are also ensuring that the Rules of Procedure and a new consultant who has given us demanding and salvage, who are the doctors, the epidemiologists and the infectious. Better combination of all these factors I couldn't do. I hope on Thursday, when we have a Conference of Presidents, with the cooperation of everyone, that we find better combinations that will keep you in here and you will not be unfair, in my opinion, to the President of Parliament who you voted against, by invoking a violation of the Constitution. I thank you, however, for giving me this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, can we move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u403	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u404	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u405	You've opened the conversation now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u406	Parliament's rules were violated by the government with the bill it brought. When you brought the bill to think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u407	You opened it. But they can't stay unanswered. We shall see this Thursday at the Conference of Presidents which will meet in full composition. I wanted these to be heard, however, about the way this House operates, the difficult way this House operates, which every moment has in it and the danger that we must prevent. And the danger we must avoid, fortunately, is not a constitutional one. It's a health risk. And we've done it. He wants the previous President to speak for a while and to end the matter here. Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, it is clear that the issue raised during this bill was that it was not possible, for example, for the constitutionality or not of a bill to be judged - it was this debate yesterday morning - for representatives only through Members who are present in the provisions which you said and with which they were made - and here too, the Rules of Procedure are clear - and it is not possible today, that is to say, in the procedure that we are in place and in the absence of proposals for a roll-call vote, that is not to say, the way in which we have become accustomed, even in rotation, as you have said in the past, when this particular crisis procedure was initiated, as you said, namely, that Members should go through the electronic system and would have finished. In other words, a precedent for our parliamentary democracy cannot be accepted, in my view, on the basis of a strong and unprecedented phase, which we have lived in and in which you are President, but a precedent on the basis of which, either by delegations or by letter of vote on the bills, the plenary will now be consulted. There was an incision. This has to do with the fact that we have spent the second phase, de-escalation, partial de-escalation, test de-escalation, after the first two months of the particular treaty, in which the House agreedly operated. Unfortunately, in our view, this section - and President Tsipras was clear - was marked by a government's attitude, from the very first moment of this transition, as you put it before us - we are in a transition, we are looking at how we will function - from the rhetoric of the Prime Minister to the effect that he will bring twenty-six bills within two months and while testing precisely the degressivity and the procedure for a very critical bill, which came when we started this second process. So the consensus, which was also on the basis of which we went in the two months, is clear that there has also been a point of order on the substance of the initiative that the government itself - not you - has taken. So - and I close with this - the proposal tabled by Mrs Gerovas, as far as the Conference was concerned with the small composition - is that Thursday you said that it will take place in the normal composition - says that we now have May, to start with the Summer Departments, namely the hundred-member compositions or even analogous to the summer sections that are the absolute constitutional legal way out and procedure, is something that completely prevents and unloads this whole debate. For what you said it was a spooked provision that would allow even the committees to legislate, it was so stunned that it has never been implemented. So there is a proposal, under the Constitution, which fully reflects the needs of health and the correlation between the functioning of the House and what is happening in society, which had said in time before this bill came to Parliament's acceptance of this proposal and started in the summer of May. I want us to leave any evil thoughts, Mr. President. You know very well - we have also dealt with such issues together - that if anything happens to the country or if the government wants something extraordinary and in summer there is a break-up and a full-time operation. So there are very clear procedures, absolutely tested. A past government did too early for other reasons Summer Departments. So this is the proposal that is being tabled. We do not have to go either by representatives or by letters or by patents of differences which we will find. I repeat that your role is extremely difficult and I honour all of us in these unprecedented circumstances, but I think that the intervention of the President of the SYRIZA and the Chief of Officerial Response was to return to a process that would not have any shadow, no intention of developing and interpreting intentions between us, namely, strengthening the democracy and the functioning of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u409	So let's leave it here today. The opinions have been heard. Did I convince you to stay?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u410	I take your position as an indirect confession that this will not be repeated. The schilling vote not provided for by the Constitution nor by the Rules of Procedure of the House in the roll-call vote will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u411	Where will the MPs sleep, since the hotels are closed?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u412	Leave it now where they'll sleep." All right, let it go. Twenty-six bills in two months and where will they sleep? Let them go. Democracy is not quarantine. The parliamentary function is not quarantine. The quarantine was made by all of us with a reverential effort for collective good, and until now we have had a good understanding and, if you like, decisions that we made consensually, which were indeed outside the framework of the regulatory framework. So as such, I take your place and not as a peak. Besides, the peak for me was against the parliamentary majority. But, to the extent that this process is going to take place today, we cannot legitimise it, and that is the message I give, that it must not be repeated, that it is the first and last time, because if it is repeated, it will still not be legitimised by the CSCE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u413	However, if I wanted to say something, I would not say it directly, I would say it directly. So you misinterpreted me. You wanted to interpret me and I wanted to help you that's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u414	Now you want to talk again? It's worse now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u415	Because you went to interpret me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u416	So should I take it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u417	You wanted to interpret me. I wanted to help you and say that's not what I meant.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u418	If you'd like us to go against it, we'd have to go against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u419	I do not want to be opposed, Mr President, but I do not want them to interpret me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u420	Listen, Mr. President. Four and a half years, Prime Minister. I know both the exceptional circumstances and the difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u421	These are unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u422	I also know the limits of democracy and parliamentary operation. You shouldn't think you have the melon and the knife and you cut it all off. There is also a representative here, and there is a democratic function. You cannot ignore the position and attitude of Officer Opposition. There are ways. We are at your disposal to sit down and find ways together.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u423	Thursday I hope we find some ways better. [[At this point the MPs of the Radical Left Coalition depart from the Chamber]] Please, no conspiracy to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u424	We're all here and you want 15 of the JRC...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u425	That won't be necessary. Mr. Kaklamanis has solved it since the morning, and he has told you. That's not necessary. It is known that the fifteen signatories are right to sign. Minister, you have the floor, and then Mr Simopoulos speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras had all the time to come here this morning, when the Prime Minister was here, and obviously to say what he said about the procedural matters, but above all what he said about the essentials. The Prime Minister was here, waiting for him. Mr. Tsipras came in this afternoon to tell us, after he told us what he had planned to say, he's leaving without even wanting to hear our answers. I once remember, as a secondary student in law, I had left the SGP from a meeting of the year and have learned that this was a very big mistake, because those who are absent usually show that they have no arguments and that they cannot finally cope with a debate. This mistake was made by Mr. Tsipras, but with his joy, it is not the first and most likely the last political mistake he has made. But what I have to do in the institutions - I want to say to you, we will not have the joy of exchanging arguments - is to respond as Minister of the Environment to the Chief of Staff for his current position, to a point of order. The first thing I want to talk about is - I have noted it here in order to say it - on the first to which Mr Tsipras stood, that is what he described as a democracy of unanimity. 'We do not want to spoil', he says, 'the climate of unanimity'. It simply means Greek government acceptance to public opinion, as recorded in all polls. This is obviously what has been bothering him all the time both over the decisive response that the government has given Evros and the same successful response that he has given to health in relation to the coronary. And the fact that there is government acceptance you will forgive me to say that despite the rabies effort of SYRIZA and some ecological organisations, it is also shown in this bill. Because he previously confessed that the gathering that took place yesterday and other gatherings throughout Greece were not great. If she were more honest, she would say that they were concentrations that were more than failed. And once again it turns out that the government, and in this bill, is coordinated with public opinion, it is coordinated with the inhabitants of the islands who want to see a solution to their garbage, it is coordinated with those who really have environmental sensitivities and do not want to be toys with the plastic bags, it is coordinated with the farmers who come and take the fields they have from Eleftherios Venizelos and Konstantinos Karamanlis and sees them as forests, it is coordinated with the new one who wants to find a job and wants to open up business and Greece keeps the permits for six or eight years. That proves - no matter how bothering you - from this bill. Mr Tsipras continued, telling us to predict exactly the level of the recession. I was gonna tell him two things. First, when did he achieve it in much calmer conditions when he was Prime Minister? It has always fallen out both in recession and growth and usually downwards, i.e. negative. And secondly, since it is so much cut and wants to know the exact intensity of the recession and considers that the Minister of Finance cannot do well, the one who has an excellent financial officer who has done so brilliantly for four and a half years who has ruled the country - that is why he also had the corresponding election result - why does he not tell us, but is keeping it jealous for himself? Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are in unprecedented circumstances, that all governments are reviewing their assessments, precisely because we do not know how long we will keep this phenomenon, because we are in the presence of an invisible enemy, not us, the whole of Europe and the whole of the world. Once again referred to the recipe and how much money the government gives, what does Mr. Tsipras want? Remember the proposal he made a few days ago his own financial staff said that whatever money we have to give about now, is there really no tomorrow, is there no autumn where the coronary scientists will return? Is that a serious economic policy? The Greek people have responded through the appeasement of this party, as I say again, all the measurements of public opinion show. Mr. Tsipras continued. I had now believed for two days that a Sabbath headline of the Sabbath - the main theme - entitled 'Drue, Mr Hatzidakis, for the Golden Boys' as a main article had been forgotten because no one mentioned it for any reason - might have been inconsistent with each other - but Mr Tsipras mentioned it. So it gives me the opportunity to tell him about the Golden Boys. We in the new EDAS company, the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, want to find people with experience from both gas and hydrocarbons and highly qualified experts. And believe me, because we've searched enough, it's not possible to find people really the way we want them to, with the wages they give - which they've given so far - the Greek public in these companies. And that's why we boldly come and do this, which is not the first time that we've done, it's been several times so far. But who's talking? That's where I want to stand. Who's talking? SYRIZA speaks who was four and a half years ruling. And I apologise for this, I could be thorough because I know the figures up to the last euro, but I will not do so for the sake of protecting people and because I have nothing with all those who are going to say. I honor them and respect them and I believe they do their job well, but there can be no spots left that we are supposedly analgesic and they are supposedly compassionate and are next to the world. So, to the banks, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA four and a half years has tolerated a regime whereby all the bank directors receive multiple money than we give to the EDPS, and not once and twice, much more. I have here a post of "THEWERING OF CONTINUATIONS". On SYRIZA, they agreed with the troika that they would also give much more money to the chiefs of the U.S.A. with the signature of Mr. Tsakalotou and Mr. Tsakalotou. Apparently they didn't want to hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u427	(It didn't sound) I'm not saying, look for them. Again, I have nothing with people and I don't want to be "SYRIZA number two", I have to protect myself, because we all have a route and a family. And also - and this shows how much this party has politically lost - they decided in 2018 - where do I ask? - to a company that previously reported to IPTO, which is in our Ministry, to give the people who also put much more money to four different executives than to what we now give to the EDPS and the INTERNATIONAL DEPA. What is it, Pharisee hypocrites of SYRIZA? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Again, in order to avoid misunderstanding, I honor all these people I mentioned and I would not mention them and have been detained and renounced the post of "AUGIS", although on the Internet there were negative comments about me personally all these days. But, at some point, patience ends! Another time, the SYRIZA's gentlemen can better control their words. And I'm going further into the bill. Mr. Tsipras told us that with the permission, that from eight years ago, we will be going in a hundred and fifty days, there will be insecurity. Really? The insecurity there is in Britain that has a hundred and fifty days! The insecurity there is in Italy that has a hundred and fifty days! The insecurity there is in Germany that has a hundred and fifty days! The insecurity that exists throughout Europe that has a hundred and fifty days! There was only security here when Mr. Tsipras was Prime Minister and that is why we also had this coarse investment, with which Greece developed so much! In 2018, as a percentage of GDP, only the war countries, the countries in war, went beyond investment worldwide. This is a clue that many people who are watching us probably don't know. That is what we are trying to deal with, and we say that if public administration is delayed, it will go to the Central Board on Environmental Licences. Is that insecurity? Is it insecurity that eight, nine different representatives of ministries are sitting to decide on this matter? As far as the institutions of protected areas are concerned, I have said that again, there is no point in going far. He says Mr. Tsipras was a tested model. I agree with him. It was a tested model, but with obvious failure. The institutions themselves sought to have a central coordinating body, which we are creating. However, I also do not know what kind of tested and successful model, according to Mr Tsipras, was what was financed annually for all of Greece, for 30% of the country, when we are the first government to come and ensure funding from the mild activities that will take place within these regions. So there is aid, but for Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA the words have lost their meaning. It also says "May, the bodies are not involved". But we have management committees in which they participate. For the first time, there have been memorandums of cooperation to protect nature in these regions with state funding. I come to the NATURA regions. How long will this mythology continue for NATURA? But how much? I showed yesterday that they gave areas for exploration of hydrocarbons in NATURA areas. Today I shall table three different decisions in the Minutes, not someone else, but Mr Famelou. There is therefore a decision on “Application for environmental conditions for the exploitation of marble quarry at Dryodosos Xiropotamou Municipality of Drama”, which is clearly mentioned - I do not know whether it makes sense to read all of it all, ladies and gentlemen - within this decision by Mr Famelou - who is currently a lever, as is Mr Tsipras - that “the area of the project is within the forest area, within the special area of conservation “Falkro mountains” which has been included in the European ecological network of protected areas “NATURA 2000” and within the Special Protection Zone “Falkro term” which has been included with code, etc. the European ecological network of protected areas ‘NATURA 2000’. And these people come and criticize me for NATURA! It is Mr. Famelos and Mr. Tsipras who signed another decision by another company, the "Interbeton Structural Materials" in the Xyloceratia of the Municipality of Milos, which, if I read them to you, you will see that he says the same. They are also the ones who signed this decision for a lignite mine in the Kleidi position in northern Greece in NATURA! Ladies and gentlemen, you who still believe in them are working on you in your face! People don't have a limit to demagogy and lie! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I continue: Mr. Tsipras came - he really has been lured into the man - and spoke to MPs from rural areas - I see many among you - about forest maps. Big hit! That if we were to follow SYRIZA’s rhythms with the hundreds of seventy thousand objections and the pace of dismissal of objections, we would have the effect in half of Greece after twenty-seven years! That fields were brought up as refugees by Eleftherios Venizelos and that people have the seal of the state, or in reforestations, by Constantine Karamanlis before the dictatorship, that SYRIZA was here and questioned them and said they are forests and forced people to go to court and buy the fields, their own fields, ladies and gentlemen, from themselves! It's a world record of surrealist political perception! What else could that be? If you don't know, you think you're dreaming, that you can see it in your sleep. That's what they've done for so many years, and today they come and they're swinging the finger. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, Athanasios BOURAS]] And continue with the waste. You are, he says, in favor of incineration waste. I do not want to remind you of what is happening in Vienna or Copenhagen and all these savage, uncivilized and exactly what they are doing with their garbage. However, because SYRIZA is now leading against the energy utilization of waste by the cement industry "TITAN" and is at the forefront of the demonstrations - revolutionary, of course, allegedly all the last few days - I want to remind you, ladies and gentlemen - listen and you will not believe in your ears - an agreement that I have here, signed on 3 July 2019, that is, four days before the election period. So this agreement - which I will table - is signed as a Voluntary Cooperation Agreement for the utilization of secondary fuels by the cement industry in the context of industrial coexistence and the cyclical economy. It is precisely in this agreement between Mr Famello and the cement industry that we are relying on any licensing of the TITAN industry. And Mr. Famelos is in the trenches against himself! This is SYRIZA! And I'm on my way. On the islands there are disagreements. I showed the letter of Mayor Rhodes, who is the president of the ETA, and I read it. And Mr Famellos says 'no, you are lying'. What are you questioning from the letter? The mayor says so. I read the mayor's letter, and the man says he has videos from the teleconference. But even if SYRIZA lived in the room, the president wouldn't allow us to watch the video to see who's telling the truth and who's lying. In any case, however, we are moving forward. And let me tell you something else. Regardless of what individual reactions exist, especially in the Ionian Sea, we must move forward, because the country cannot be a hostage of garbage, because we cannot pay fines to the European Union, because we cannot risk our tourism and why we cannot play with public health. It also says that Mr. Mitsotakis did not say a word about IPTO. I said before on the payroll. I think that's how they'll remember IPTO after this debate. But - and I say again, I have nothing with people - Mr. Mitsotakis had spoken in electoral terms about IPTO. And Mr. Mitsotakis has fixed positions. Even if anyone can argue with him, he doesn't say more about one day and more about the next. We were, and we will be, - and Mr Thomas explained very well before - in favour of further privatization of IPTO, because, as Mr Thomas also said, at this critical stage, having further privatization will help us to have more funds for IPTO in order to better get the IPTO investment programme out of it. But Mr Tsipras, who came to us critical, forgets two things: firstly, that he privatised in an extremely strange way - no one can describe him in a few words - 24% of IPTO, but he gave the minority the right to block decisions. All strategic decisions if they are not signed by the Chinese, cannot proceed. And at the DESFA, which is the brother of IPTO - he does the same job, network manager in natural gas - Mr. Tsipras proudly deprived 66%! He deprived 66% of the DECLAR and criticized us, because we want to do something similar to IPTO. The logic is over! Mining. He also criticised the fact that we were happy with mining. Here, too, Mr Thomas explained them very well and in detail and I do not want to trouble you - two notifications, that is, procedures for a faster licensing we are following in such cases and blame us for both notifications! Do you know how many people did while they were government? Thirteen please, ladies and gentlemen! The score is 13-2 and, as far as I know in my arithmetic, 13 is quite bigger than 2. Mr. Tsipras referred to the Prime Minister and his ecological sensitivities with a relatively depressing tone. I have to tell you that I - and I have known him for many years - have been a personal witness to the ecological sensitivities of the Prime Minister before and now in our daily cooperation. However, I will tell you something that Mr Tsipras will always want to forget, that the socialist Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timermans, has publicly described Mr Mitsotakis as 'green Prime Minister', and that is as much as SYRIZA is annoyed. I would also like to point out that we are the government that is moving forward with the emblematic work of liberation. And we are going through it systematically, with more ministries and having appointed the coordinator of Kostis Mousouroulis, who knows both energy and European investment issues. Mr Tsipras said, in the context of his philosophical party, 'you have not given a single euro to frustration in so many months, nothing has gone ahead'. Listen. PPC announced a very long cooperation a few more days ago with German RWE, which is precisely about large PV parks in western Macedonia. ELPEs, in which the state has a minority participation but which, in any case, start in June to build Europe's largest photovoltaic park in western Macedonia. The Green Fund has already provided 60 million in the same areas and with regard to the lignite resource, by decision of the Deputy Minister, whereas only 1/5 had been given to it in the previous years - only 22 million had been allocated by Mr Stathakis in 2018 - with our decision to give the lignite regions a sum of 133 million. 133 million seem very little to them. The 22 million considered much, what they had given! Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude - I had to answer just for reasons of order - that SYRIZA has entrusted himself with the role of the prosecutor in all matters. Is there a social issue? SYRIZA has social sensitivity. Is there a question of democracy? SYRIZA is the model of democracy. Is there an environmental issue? SYRIZA is the party of environmental sensitivity a priori, of course, we do not have to analyse it. People have decided since they joined this party that they are doing everything right, that they are not doing anything wrong, that they are serving all the values that they are all human beings! The SYRIZA who comes and controls us today is the SYRIZA who left, by Ms. Dourou, the garbage mountains in Attica. It is SYRIZA who left the gutter in the “Thirteen” park. It's SYRIZA who left the dead fish in Coronia, Thessaloniki. It's SYRIZA who left the unacceptable icons on the island of Gold, beneath the Isle of Ierapetra. It is the SYRIZA who handled as he handled his shipwreck "AYIA ZONI" and blacked all Attica. But there is also SYRIZA who - and I have them here, I do not read them to you one, I will file them in the Minutes - has suffered five convictions from the Court of Justice of the European Union on environmental issues. And because these can be loaded to us, he has bequeathed us six different environmental cases, which are open at this time, including, ladies and gentlemen, you know what case? The NATURA case! SYRIZA doing this festival for NATURA has sent Greece before the European Commission and perhaps before the European Court of Justice precisely for NATURA! This is the Ionesco theatre we've been watching for two days! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras spoke of models. I don't know where his model is, as anyway every day they change models and it's very difficult to watch them. Our model is, however, the model of modern European states, of states that go on traveling and say 'Why not be like this?' And that is why in the environment we have raised up the flag of degreasing, we have lifted up the flag of withdrawal of single-use plastics, we have lifted up the flag of energy savings, we have lifted the flag - and we are planning it - of a large national reafforestation plan and of course we have lifted up the flag of the circular economy and sustainable, green growth. This bill is a green development bill, and as the Prime Minister said this morning, Mr Mitsotakis, we are proud that, as a government, we are bringing this bill to a vote in Parliament, which really modernises and not in the words of Greek environmental legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u429	Minister, when we are done today and your draft law is passed, please read your speech and measure how many times you said the word 'SYRIZA'. Maybe you get a lesson and don't do it again. And if you wanted to praise them so much, you wouldn't succeed in it the way you did it, unconsciously. Mr President, why did I take the floor? I took the floor after the speech of the Chief of Staff Response because, in these two days, the Change Movement has supported the decision of the Conference of Presidents and has been placed very responsibly on what was heard this morning, when Mr Kaklamanis was chaired by the Parliamentary Representative of this Party, with regard to the violation of popular sovereignty and the violation in general of the Constitution. I've answered them personally, and I think quite seriously. I do not want the meeting to end, to have heard at the highest level of this party that the argument that 'in accordance with the Rules of Procedure with the Conference of Presidents and with what we are deciding is in breach of Rule 70'. The parliamentary representative said so this morning. I answered him in lacquer. But now the Chief of Police has repeated it. I would like to say, Mr President, that this is what I want to say. -, lack of reading the text of the Constitution - should I say it? I don't know how I should say it. However, the Constitution does not write this in Article 70. And I would like to make it clear that the Change Movement would never take a position, which is an economic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in conflict with the Constitution. Rule 70, Mr President, empowers the House to take a decision on how Members on a mission from this House or from the government will vote abroad. He doesn't say they vote with alpha or beta, and we go backwards. I would therefore like to clarify - and that is why I have taken the floor - that we respect the Constitution as a parliamentary group. We have decided on the economic interpretation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure by accepting operating restrictions, but insisting on the democratic functioning of this institution, believing that it should not be interrupted. And I think that some Members in this House should learn from today's procedure when they call on the Constitution, thinking about citizens listening out and blaming, indirectly, those who have supported the Bureau's decision to read better.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. First of all, I should like to thank both colleagues, Mr Simopoulos and Mr Yoyakas, who facilitate the process by giving up their position. And I would now like to give the floor to the Minister, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, to close the meeting. I imagine that the procedures for voting this draft law have been completed in the most comfortable way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u431	Don't be afraid, don't be afraid, I won't make any more reason. I have nothing more to say. I just want to put forward the last package of legislative improvements. A total of thirty legislative improvements are being tabled, from which I wish to dwell on something I have announced, to withdraw some provisions on hotels in the center of Athens, which will be relegated together with Mr. Economou to the bill on urban and spatial planning. Mr. Economou has been questioned even for his scientific adequacy - he is well known internationally - by the rhetorians of SYRIZA. I would also like to say that, in principle here, in terms of political gravity, some legislative improvements are being tabled for the Ionian islands. In other words, for the new man created there to be better management. What are the changes we are making, because I will not start to explain now. We have already talked about it in committee and in plenary. So, what are the changes we're making? We are doing a single body so that there is more effective management. In Corfu we have progress thanks to the cooperation we have with Mrs Meropi Hydraou, which I must emphasise with the other two mayors of northern and southern Corfu, in relation to Templelon, the temporary transfer to Kozani of waste and the creation of a modern unit in Templelon. About Lefkada, here, we incorporate in the law the agreements that exist between the Municipality of Lefkada and the Municipality of Vonitsa so that Lefkada gives its garbage to the Municipality of Vonitsas and Vonica give the remains to the waste treatment plant in Lefkada. He's getting inside that law. In Kefalonia because, we need to know that waste management in Kefalonia is more advanced than other islands, the collection itself remains as it is today, but Kefalonia is part of the body. In Zakynthos, too, we are going to face a very big problem, which is in danger of becoming an explosive for this island and of having issues with the European Union as well. I would like to emphasise the excellent cooperation we have had with the regional director, Mrs Kratsa, also underscored the cooperation we have had - despite the disagreements with many of them - with the mayors of all the islands, and of course underscoring the excellent cooperation we have had in the last few days that has helped us overcome all the difficulties, with the four New Democracy MPs, Mr Gika, Mr Kavvada, Mr Cappato and Mr Akuppie. And of course we are here if there is any question of dealing with it, but I think it is a consensual solution that will be positive for the Ionian Sea. We had no problems for the Aegean, despite SYRIZA's claims. There will also be a single VESSA in the southern Aegean and I am sure that we will have positive results very soon. In addition, I would like to say this: here, from the municipalities that were set up at the outset, the Municipality of Brussels has been awarded because the majority of the municipal council proved to be against it and we would therefore be leaving from our beginning in this case that there is acceptance of the municipal councils. And I would also like to say that there are too many municipalities, I risk forgetting many, but I remember the Municipality of Amarousi, the Municipality of Galatium, the Municipality of Marathon and the others, and so on, which as soon as we have all the necessary elements to regulate them legally, we will legislate as far as possible in the next town planning bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u432	Ladies and gentlemen, it is declared abundant...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u433	Before the vote begins, we want the regulation to be handed over to us. He announced it, but we don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u434	I'll share the setting with everyone. Now, he'll share.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u435	When? Now, take a break.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u436	Wait till you hear it, Mr. Kegeroglu. There's the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u437	Can I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u438	Here you go, Mrs Manolaku.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u439	Mr President, the procedure is unacceptable. We are before the vote, roll-call votes, amend articles which are to be voted on, and you tell us to vote in white, without seeing, without knowing anything. It's the procedure that's inadmissible. And the Bureau should not normally accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u440	Before you express yourself, Mrs Manolakou, in this way you will hear what I shall say and say there will be a ten-minute interruption and it will have substance and meaning. I won't get up to sit down again. And you'll be able to read and decide. So, I'd say, you rushed to make a characterization. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy is adjourned: ‘Modernising environmental legislation, incorporating into Greek legislation Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Parliamentary Group on Articles 17, 20, 24, 27, 44, 46, 93 and 110 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u441	In view of the special circumstances, I will not read out the list of signatories to the roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it, but we consider that there is one. In addition, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the Group of the Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece in principle and on Articles 2, 3, 4, 7, 11, 44, 48, 50, 83, 92, 93, 110, 115 and 119 of the draft law, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u442	As I have said, because of the special circumstances, I will not read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to see whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it, but we think there is one. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u443	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the two votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u444	The House agrees. Therefore, there will be a roll-call vote on the principle and the articles, as compiled by the two proposals, by the JRC and the Change Movement, namely Articles 2, 3, 4, 7, 11, 17, 20, 24, 27, 44, 46, 48, 50, 83, 92, 93, 110, 115 and 119 of the draft law. I would like to inform you that the system will remain open for sixty minutes, in which many of the rapporteurs as well as the parties will be able to see the relevant corrections and legislative improvements in detail. I would also like to point out that the vote includes the beginning and nineteen articles. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest you need to "rol" the touch screen, scroll down. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted in all twenty areas included in the vote. After you have registered your vote, you may check it or even revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to prepare their voting list on the others, which is not in the name of the articles, as we have said, to facilitate them. The time is 20:00 and by 21:00 the system will be open. Also, if a colleague does not have his card, let him come here to the Bureau to be able to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote begins. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u445	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have come to the Bureau by the Members' Parliamentary Groups, which make their votes known and which will be taken into account in the count to be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u446	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u447	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 214 Members voted at the beginning of the bill. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 56 MPs voted. 'PARON' voted no one. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Article 2 of the bill passed a total of 214 Members. In favour of Rule 2, namely 'NAH', they voted 158 Members. Against Rule 2, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 3 of the bill passed a total of 214 Members. In favour of Rule 3, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 3, in other words 'NO', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 3 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 4 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 4, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. VAN DER WAAL (NI). — (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 4 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 7 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 7, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 7, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Article 7 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 11 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 11, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 11, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 17 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 17, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 17, i.e. 'NO', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 20 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 20, namely 'NAH', they voted 158 Members. Against Rule 20, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 20 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 24 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 24, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 24, i.e. 'OH', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 27 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 27, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 27, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 44 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 44, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 44, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 44 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 46 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 46, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 46, i.e. 'OH', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 48 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 48, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 48, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 50 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 50, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 50, i.e. 'NO', 34 Members voted. 'PARON' 22 Members voted. Article 50 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Under Rule 83 of the bill, 214 Members voted. In favour of Rule 83, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 83, i.e. 'OH', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 83 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 92 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 92, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 92, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 92 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 93 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 93, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 93, i.e. 'OH', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 93 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 110 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 110, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 110, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 110 was therefore accepted, as amended, by a majority. Article 115 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 115, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 115, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 115 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Article 119 of the bill passed 214 Members. In favour of Rule 119, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 119, i.e. 'Notice', 56 Members voted. 'PARON' voted no one. Article 119 was therefore accepted, as it stands, by a majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u448	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are asked to submit to the Bureau - as they did - documents with their votes on the other articles, amendments, the farewell article and the entire bill in order to be included in Parliament's official minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u449	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u450	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u451	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-05-S1-commons.u452	With the consent of this House at 21.27 minutes the sitting is closed for Wednesday 6 May 2020 at 9.00 a.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
