ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 30 January 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos on the price of olive oil and the problems of olive producers under number 427/27-1-2020. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultanas Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "Reimbursements of the Municipality of Pangaios Vineyards". 3. Under No 420/24-1-2020, a topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mrs.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The almond producers of the Larissa Prefecture deserve more than the "pillows" of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food." 4. The question raised by Mr Nicholas Papastastasis, Member of Parliament, Mr Eitolokarnanias of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nicholas Papastassis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on "Problems with the recognition of the service of the Armed Forces". 5. The Question No 418/23-1-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament B3' South Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Ministerial decision on the operation of certain commercial centres in Spata at Attica'. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 433/28-1-2020 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The immediate operation of the Recyclable Materials Selection Center in Heraklion". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 439/28-1-2020, by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Resolution of the building problem of the schools affected by the July earthquake in Aegeleo and Petroupoli". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1828/11-11-2019 of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Evaluation of the building of the veterinary laboratory of Corfu". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 2809/20-12-2019 by MP B2 West Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Treaty of breeding on farms and effects on health and the environment". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Formatography presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Science and Technology of Japan". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates for Mutual Recognition and Exchange of Driving Licences’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Albania on the mutual recognition of driving licences’. 3. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Authority for Land and Sea Transport of the United Arab Emirates for International Road Transport of Goods and Passengers’. The above draft laws were adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who have an objection to their ratification may be given the floor. We need to have a single debate on these agreements and take the floor for those who object for five minutes with tolerance. Be careful now, because it is one of the few times that I take the initiative to interpret the Rules of Procedure a little differently if you wish. As far as I can see, reservation has been expressed by the Greek Solution for everything. The Communist Party has also expressed a reservation on the third in a series of ratifications. The Members who have raised the objection will therefore first be given the floor. And because time is short - and the Minister is too - if any of the rest want to have the floor, he will have the floor five minutes. I will ask one - a party and his rapporteur will be able to speak, regardless of whether he has voted in favour of the committee. This is the 'derogation' I make. Time has come to us, in the sense that at around 13.00 hours we shall have the vote on the so-called amendment. Does the House agree with the proposal I made?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. We therefore begin with the Communist Party on the third agreement which objects. If you have to say about the others, you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u3	A reference will be made, Mr President, to the first two conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u4	Here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u5	In committee, Mr President, we were positive about the first two agreements on driving licences, the ratification of contracts between Greece - Albania and Greece - the United Arab Emirates. We believe that they are faced with a problem of migrant workers in both our country and the Greeks in the countries covered by the conventions. That is why, as I said, we are putting ourselves in a positive position. As far as the third convention is concerned, the ratification of the convention between Greece and the United Arab Emirates on land and sea transport is concerned, this agreement on the promotion of transport between the two states is being implemented rapidly, with the liberalisation of the transport market, with the privatisation of ports, railways, roads, strengthening the supply chain, of which our people have nothing to gain from. In this context, transport, as well as distribution and hence storage of goods, are in the hands of local and foreign major business groups, who profit at the expense of both transport workers - see working arrangements, exhausting hours at a number of hours at the steering wheel - and in general at the expense of meeting the needs of the people, even at the expense of the country's productive base. So the relationship that is seeking to develop from the bourgeois ranks of the two countries does not coincide with the relations between the two peoples, rather than with the intense competition which is being developed, especially at this time in the region and therefore on the basis of the European Union and NATO's and NATO's objectives. We shall vote 'at present' on the third convention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr Lambroulis, for the brief time. I now go to the Greek Solution, where for all rapporteurs, as far as I can see, it is Mr Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Basically, we object to the second convention on Albania. In relation to driving licences between Greece and Albania for exchanging driving licences, we consider it to follow several years after the opening of the borders and the movement of the population. So it is probably not linked to private, but to business, especially when, as the Minister has informed us, it is private and professional driving licences here. Just for statistics we will mention that with UN figures four hundred and thirty thousand Albanians live in Greece and thirty thousand Greeks in Albania. But maybe the numbers are bigger. Continued, the contract for the exchange of driving licences follows the recognition of Serbia's driving licences. So we wondered whether it had anything to do with international transport to and from the ports of Greece. It is well known, moreover, that Greece is being orchestrated by trucks from nearby areas. We note here that in January-October 2018 Greek exports to Albania amounted to 345.4 million euros and imports to 89.3 million euros, while Greece is the third largest supplier country in Albania, following Italy and China, as I will present in the Minutes at the end of my speech. I would also like to point out that the Greek companies established in Albania are more than five hundred, and I will also submit to the Minutes, while many have been transferred to Albania in recent years because of the economic conditions, with Greece ranking second in terms of foreign investment in Albania, following Italy, with five billion euros, according to the Greek Embassy in Tirana. Finally, we must note that in recent years a number of companies have been transferred to Bulgaria, including transport. It is estimated that eight thousand carriers are involved in companies based in Bulgaria, because they have much less taxation, contributions, charges and vehicle insurance. A similar phenomenon is found in Serbia, Skopje and Albania, while it is estimated that fifteen and a half thousand trucks have migrated to neighbouring countries by transporting to Greece. There are only thirty-six thousand trucks left here, active under twenty thousand, as we will testify to the Minutes. Therefore, with the participation of trucks with foreign license plates in Greece, possibly by hiring drivers with Greek licenses or moving Greeks along with companies in the neighbouring country and receiving local driving licenses, the benefit for the Greek economy is reduced. Apart from the financial consequences, there are other negative ones, such as safety risks. For example, there were arrests for tachographs tachographs in foreign license plates on Ionia Street. For migratory: For example, recently a fridge was found in Xanthi with Bulgarian plate plates carrying forty an immigrants. For smuggling: For example, tankers have been used with foreign license plates for fuel smuggling, as we will testify in the Minutes. Further, of course, one of Albania's advantages is that through the Greek driving licence someone has access to the rest of the European Union. However, for Greece there are only disadvantages, among other things, because this could lead to the reduction of the wages of Greek truck drivers through the recruitment of staff from Albania and also, possibly, the relocation of Greek transport companies to Albania and the rapid receipt of a licence for Greek drivers, a possibility that would reduce the transport and related revenues of the Greek economy even if we are guaranteed with regard to driving procedures in Albania and that they are sufficient for Greece. We will quite rightly vote against this bill for Albania, and we have voted in favour of the two others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u8	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd St. Barbara High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now we'll take it backwards than usual. I ask Mr. Logiadis if he wants to be put for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u9	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u10	I'm going to the Change Movement. Mr. Goka, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u11	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u12	I'm coming to SYRIZA. First of all, Mr Mikopoulos is going to talk about the third convention. Do you want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u13	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Zachariadis, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u15	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Buchikaki, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u17	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I will need less time, because I think that the first two sanctions are almost unanimous, because they are by a majority. Some thoughts were heard on the part of the Greek Solution on various issues. I would just like to refer to a typical issue, that in fact all three sanctions come to the House in a very rapid manner in the sense that they were contracts pending from 2017, the latter had been signed in 2018 and the third in early 2019, and that shows a speed in terms of legislative work. Now, with regard to some concerns which have been expressed: First of all, I would like to say that as regards the first, namely, between the Hellenic Republic and the United Arab Emirates, I have also expressed to the committee that it is of course also about cases of Greeks who have left and immigrated to the United Arab Emirates and had to return to their country where the conditions are better, so that we in fact make it easier and not to put them back into a process to issue the diploma. With regard to the second agreement between Greece and Albania, I would also like to remind my dear colleagues that it concerns, among other things, the Greeks in Albania, the Greek minority, namely the Northcontinents, who choose to return home and settle here. So, Mr President, this is how we make it easier for them not to put them in this process again to issue a driving licence. I should also like to remind you that, to facilitate the examination of the candidates' examinations in the Albanian language already in 2008, precisely so that Albanians who live in our country can be facilitated. Very briefly, Mr President, on the last agreement. I think I have also expressed to the committee that this is an agreement between Greece and the United Arab Emirates which is mutually beneficial for both sides, resulting in a country such as the United Arab Emirates, with which we also have a strategic relationship on many points and in many areas, which will make it easier for cooperation even more. You see, as a whole, what is happening in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean, and I think that at least with this country, Mr President, there is one, if you want, a strategic choice for relations to be deepened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u20	He has asked for the floor, otherwise we were ready for the vote, the President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos. Mr Vellopoulou, in the sense - obviously you heard me in your office - about the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u21	Five, what to do, Mr President. But I'm glad you're up in the Chair today, Mr. Kaklamani. Mr Minister, in this life, but also in the planet and in international relations, any agreements made at the benefit of both parties. I come from a village, Axios Giannitson, where twenty years ago we had three hundred dullies. ‘TRANS PERFORMANCE’, ‘TRANS CHANGE’, ‘Giannitsa TRANS’. They were running around Europe. You did your utmost, you as government and PASOK at the time and you wiped them out. Now what are you doing? You give the right to the Albanians here, like the Bulgarians and Romanians, because of the European Union, to carry illegal immigrants, milk illegally from Bulgaria, which is baptized Greek, to use Bulgarian signs and trucks. You're cutting off a job from the Greeks. Do you understand that? And let me tell you something, Minister. To say we won something, to make a discount on whatever our values. Katsifa's conclusion, since we're talking about Albania, has it come out? This is where his mother is being persecuted and you are giving Albania the right to join the European Union as well. The Prime Minister was concerned when McCron vetoed both Skopje and Albania. You give it to Albania, constantly, food to claim. I don't understand why. Aren't you asking for anything from the other side as a government? You, as a government - and to your credit, were also Mr. Kaklamanis here at the time - established an EEZ with Albania in 2008-2009. You weren't here. And I said to Mrs Bakoyannis: 'Take commitments to implement'. The Albanians treated us, went to the Constitutional Court and dismantled our agreement. Have you realised that you're constantly motivating them to have a good time and we're worse? One more question. With the housing statements in Himara, what is your government doing? You give them, give them, give them, put them in Europe, and provide them with a lot of benefits. Even this small provision for Albanians working in Greece with Albanian trucks, with Albanian permits, and we are talking about a country that you know how the license comes out. Don't tell you how, look at it a little longer, speed it out. It is a country where drug trafficking, but corruption, too, is a primary reason for existence. How did you do that? So, should we put carrots on our streets? How do these things happen in the Greek Parliament and everyone agrees, I do not understand that? Not a single reference to Albania's challenges. Mia, listen in here! Why would I give them this provision? Explain to me why, since ours won't earn anything. These are questions that, on a bilateral level, when you give something, you have to get something. It can't be us, the Greeks, the suckers. It can't be done! And I repeat, in the case of Katsifa, the murder of Katsifa, we have no findings, we haven't found what happened. You'll tell me that there were people in Striza who said he was crazy and crazy, who just loved Greece, but on the other hand, I would say that his mother is also being persecuted and you don't do anything. You're giving them everything. For the veto, you want to get it back. Why? Let them define an EEZ, let them agree on what they signed, and then give them licenses for trucks and trucks and planes. Can we help them? Yeah. We give them military equipment to protect the airspace and the Macedonians. Why, when they challenge us and offend us? Go to Himara and see how they've denounced North Epirus properties. Have you asked Northcontinentals? You have screwed them up with the Northcontinents in PASOK party clubs, SYRIZA, New Democracy and you're mocking them because you don't do anything. Let's give it! All around the world to give, but when only Greece gives and gets nothing, it's the sucker of the planet. That's why we disagree. It is basically our refusal. It is not for the licenses of trucks but for our lives to be at risk or for illegal immigrants to enter here. I told you that they were arrested earlier, as the rapporteur said, in a Bulgarian car forty illegal immigrants. The other day! A week ago, two more trucks with illegal immigrants with Bulgarian plates. Illegal milk. I don't really understand it. Perhaps my mind does not come near your intelligence - you may be smarter than us - but at least we say something. There is party patriotism, but there is national logic. Choose national logic at last as a government. You're running the place. You were fooled once by the Albanians, you were treated with babasica and you continue with the same violin. But when they make fun of you, they make fun of our country, our Greece. Require for Katsifa, demand the properties of the North-West expedients and discuss whatever you want. However, we cannot agree to 'arpalaji'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of the House twenty-four students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Artemis Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for three minutes, if he wants to reply, and then the vote will begin. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to your position. As you were not in the Chamber earlier, I would like to say that I referred to a very specific issue concerning the mutual agreement with Albania. By voting against the agreement, your party is, in fact, denying our fellow Northcontinents the recognition of their licenses. So who makes a national policy, among other things, is well known and unfortunately, by this act you are able to oppose a small percentage of Albanians, otherwise, but, in fact, of our North-West, equals, which in this way do not have the right to be recognized.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, you will give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u25	No, it's not personal. I answered you on a political level. As far as the Bulgarian signs you mentioned are concerned, I do not think I need to say in this Chamber that this is a European state, a Member State of the European Union, and therefore, in fact, there is freedom, in terms of movement - including services, persons and goods. Therefore, in any case, one cannot forbid them from trafficking. In any case, however, we can have a whole debate on a third topic, to which you referred, on national issues, but it is certainly not a matter of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u26	Good. We cannot ban Bulgarian signs. But the smuggling of smugglers by means of Bulgarian signs must be banned. Mr Vellopoulou, you have the floor for a minute and we will close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you made a mistake. The President of Parliament has already answered. I answered you differently. I know that from the Netherlands, to go to Germany, when there was a problem, normally there were controls on the Dutch trucks when they had the problem with chickens. So don't tell me it can't be. The checks must be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u28	I didn't say that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u29	So the checks are done. On the other hand, honestly, with what you are telling me you are absolutely right. We outweigh the right of the Northcontinent - ten, fifteen - to become lorry drivers. One, fifteen, I don't care. You deprive the Northcontinents of the right to a pension! You're smiling.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u30	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u31	So first, do the North-Herzegovina pension, see their demands, implement them, and come and talk about whether they want to become a dalicus driver, a Northcontinent. Pensions cannot be taken from Greece by the Northcontinentals. Look at this.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u32	Good. Don't go to pensions now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u33	So don't tell me, Minister, things you don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u34	The debate on the principle and the articles of the draft laws of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport shall be closed: 1) 'Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates for Mutual Recognition and Exchange of Driving Licences'. 2) 'Prohibition of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Albania on the mutual recognition of driving licences'. 3) 'Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Authority for the Land and Sea Transport of the United Arab Emirates for International Carriage of Goods and Passengers'. Their vote will be taken separately. The vote will take place electronically, but only the rapporteurs and the special speakers vote. We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Recognition and Exchange of Driving Licences". I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, the first article, the farewell article, and the whole bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened for the first contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u35	I would ask that the system of electronic voting for the first contract be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u36	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u37	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Repeal of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Interior of the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Recognition and Exchange of Driving Licences’ was accepted, in a single discussion, in principle, of the first article, of the farewell article and on the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u38	We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: 'Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Albania on mutual recognition of driving licences'. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u39	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u40	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u41	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Albania on the mutual recognition of driving licences’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u42	We enter the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Authority for the Land and Sea Transport of the United Arab Emirates on International Road Transport of Goods and Passengers". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u43	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u44	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u45	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Repeal of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport of the Hellenic Republic and the Federal Authority for the Terrestrial and Sea Transport of the United Arab Emirates for International Carriage of Goods and Passengers’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u47	The House has given the mandate requested. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 41a]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will suspend the sitting for a while. Please, at 13.00 hours, be in the Chamber - at least those who want - for the next vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the resolution on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: 'A birth allowance and other provisions'. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment of 148 and a special 12 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text reads as follows: PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr. Avramakis Eleftherios. Here you go. Mrs Agathopoulos Irene - Helen. Here. Mrs. Aggiris Theodora (Mrs. Theodora). Here. Mrs. Vetta Calliope. Here. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. Here. Mr. Giannoulis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Zachariadis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Thraniotis Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Mamoulakis Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Meikopoulos Alexandros. Here you go. Mr. Burnus John. Here you go. Mr. Muzalas John. Abstentions. Mr. Xanthiopoulos Theophilus. Here you go. Mrs Pulou Panagiou (Yiota). Here. Mr. Sarakiotis John. Here you go. Mrs. Tyloridou Olympia. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10'), minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be an electronic roll-call vote on the amendment, with a general number of 148 and a special number of 12 of the bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u50	I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, and so on. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Nikolaos - Georgiou Dendias, Miltiades Varvitsiotis, Mitaraki, Harry Theocharis, Konstantinos Karamanlis, Konstantinos Vlasi, Christos Stasios, Konstantinos Hadjidakis, Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis, Theodoros Karaoglou, Euripidis Stylianides, Fotinis Pipilis, Theodoris Rusopoulos, Theodoras Bakogiannis, Dimitrios Kouridis, Anastasios Hadjivasiliou, Charalambous Athanasios, Georgios Katarou and Alexandafylides Triantafylides, according to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, with which they make known their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a letter from Mr Georgios Vagios Vagiona, who knows that he is absent from the vote and that if he were present he would vote 'NAI'. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 75]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Georgiou Vagionas, Ioannis Muzala, Sultana Eleftheriadou, Socrates Famelou, Tryphoon Alexiadis, Socrates Vardakis, Stavros Arachovitis and Happiness Ahtsoglou, who know us that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "OH". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, before the electronic voting system is closed, I would like to inform you that the MEP of Mera25 Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis informs us by letter that, because of a sickness, he cannot attend today's plenary session. The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u53	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. The amendment with a general number of 148 and a special number of 12: A total of 246 Members voted. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 156 Members. In other words, 90 Members voted against the amendment. No one voted 'APPROVAL'. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 148 and a special 12 was accepted as it is by a majority. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u55	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the nominated article and the entire bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u56	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u57	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u59	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u60	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u61	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u62	It is therefore accepted that the Court of First Instance should have its seat in the European Court of Justice, acting by a majority of its Members. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "A birth allowance and other provisions" was accepted in principle and in the articles by a majority. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u63	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u64	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u65	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u66	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u67	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u68	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u69	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: ‘Abolition allowance and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u70	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u71	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-29-S1-commons.u72	With the consent of this House at 13.35 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 30 January 2020 at 9 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and legislative debate, and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
