ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 28-7-2020 authorisation, the PPP's minutes of Tuesday 28 July 2020 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Modernisation of private education and other urgent provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs' competence".]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the questions to be asked. We will begin with the third with the number 952/22-7-2020 top-level question of the first-round question of the Senate MEP, Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas, to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "An indication of the legal system against borrowers who wish to enter the successor structure of the Katseli law". Mr. Bouba's question will be answered by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a very serious issue, as you can see, and of major importance. It has to do with the functioning of the culture, democracy towards the citizens. As you know, there is the periphery in society - in the sense that the world, as it says in the catapult, has it, and we hide it - is the banks, the systemic credit system is the one that dominates the citizens. A few days ago, on an official legal site, dikastiko.gr, it was said that there was a training document in the judiciary schools for the attending representatives of Themida - that is, it must be - saying the old judges - who are in the private interest - that when you are convicted, you can support the banks, the credit system and possibly get the borrowers out. As you can see, this is a very serious issue for the functioning of the democratic culture. Where there is smoke, as you can see, my Minister, there is fire. There are the first reactions from the point of view of the legal world, from legal associations. There are statements from the President of the Association of Athens, Thessaloniki, the Serres I come from, and there is a turmoil. Indeed, there is talk - and I have a front page from a newspaper in Greece a few days ago - about a 'line in justice for banks'. So in here it explains why this training document, which the legal world is concerned about, is also about moral danger. In other words, when the judge deceited him, that means that the economic person did not have the incentive to understand that the consequences of his actions would be appropriate. However, this is about the injustice to the borrowers who - we cannot afford to crush them all - do not have the possibility - you know very well - because of their financial situation and the memorandum to cope with them. But this is about all of us here in Parliament, because this is where the executive, legislative and, above all, judicial authority is disturbed. It's a very serious matter. It has to do with the functioning of our democratic culture. And it is what Plato was right to say, "You may well be wronged with angered or raped." So look at it, because the people get more angry when they're wrong than when they rape him. This is a collapsing of both. This is a very serious issue, Minister, and you need to see it, for the functioning of our democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u4	Mr Colleagues, let us try to put all these thoughts and those which you are asking rightly and correctly in a very specific order. First of all, I would like to say that among the objectives of the National School of Judiciary, the ECHR, is the continuing training of judicial officers. In this context, the ECHR organises training seminars, conferences, conferences, conferences, conferences, which take part as rapporteurs in active judicial proceedings, members of senior education institutions, specialist scientists, and even lawyers with at least 15 years of legal service. The selection of the rapporteurs is by decision of the relevant curriculum, at the request of the training and training director in the same direction, on the basis of specific criteria, as laid down in the law on the RIS. You realise that the political leadership of the Ministry of Justice, respecting the personal and operational independence of judicial officers, as well as of course the academic freedom of the ECHR, cannot control - it is self-evident - the content of the recommendations announced. It goes without saying, too, that each rapporteur can freely express his scientific opinion on questions which he raises in his report. Accordingly, any of the participants in the training seminar may formulate their own, any different view of the recommendation, in order that through the dialectic shape of a scientific contrast between the speech and the counterpart, scientific dialogue may be promoted. So - to make it quite clear - the current government - I want to be honest with you - neither draws up guidelines for the handling of scientific reports or judicial cases, nor intervenes and intervenes in the scientific opinion expressed by each rapporteur. As far as this is concerned, on the basis of the information that I have personally from the School's address, in fact at the headquarters of the ECHR in Thessaloniki on 5, 6 and 7 February 2020, the training seminar entitled “The new peacekeepers” took place. A specific rapporteur raised the topic: "Requirements for admission to Law 3869/2010 - Lack of bankruptcy and fraud". In the conclusion - rightly read them - of his report expressed his personal scientific views on the interpretation of the Katseli Law, as well as his appreciation of the way in which the courts deal with the individual rules of this law. Respecting - I want to be honest - my institutional position I would not like to make any comment on the rapporteurs' scientific opinions, nor on the content of this publication, which is trying to interpret this suggestion, if necessary without the necessary familiarity with the interpretation of the legal concept of the dome, as has been specified by the case-law of the courts of the country. However, I would like to point out that the legislator has introduced among the conditions, the condition of non-destructive origin in a loss of payment, and that is an issue that the court has to consider. You know, this law does not exist to protect malicious payers. We need to make that clear. It exists as a shield for all those fellow citizens who, without their responsibility, have been unable to pay. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to assure you that Greek justice - and I am telling you this - is not in favour either of the banks or of the borrowers. Our judges are unbiased, unaffected, and with an absolute sense of law, they are in one particular dispute at a time on the basis of the facts presented in the proceedings and which fall within the applicable rule of law. Mr President, I will return to my speech and tell you exactly what the thoughts are and what the next steps are. Because, I think, that's why we need to talk about it in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I understand that Themida must be unresponsive, independent, but not an opinion that Chamberlen once said when asked what justice is, he replied that justice is a fair distribution of injustice. Here I want you to see this as a politician, a minister and a human being. There are bad lenders, there are borrowers who deliberately do not pay. These are a percentage possibly smaller. The Greek has lost his job. If the judge, the nursery of Themida, speaks and says, "...to prevent bank taxation from passing on to the citizens, perhaps and avoid the banks having higher taxation" - that is to say, putting this dimension in place by the judge above the human factor - society is being raped and collapsed. We are representatives of the people. We're not their representatives. We represent the people in Parliament - the power of the people's will and of the people's verdict - and Parliament must shield and protect citizens from social injustice. We must not go to the time-consuming saying 'for the sake of the people of Cretan', that is to say, that the law is in the interest of the mighty. This is a very serious matter. Lawyers themselves, as co-legislators of justice, react. Do you realize how many people will be wronged and we cannot currently represent their interests? Families will be broken. With the 1928 Constitution, you know that very well, we passed from feudalism to urbanisation. And that's why it just happened? Because this Constitution was a pilot for the entire old continent and became unreservedly Greece, because hectares of land were given under its Constitution. The Greek is intertwined with the earth, with its tiles. Listen, the degraders, unfortunately, will sometime do their job for all of us. The negative image passes into society. I want you to see it - and you, as Minister and all of us - so that this House, which has done nothing to defend the interests of the people, the society and the Greeks against a system which, if you like, is not just in our country, is globalised. And in this system, the banks - I say it, as people say - are doing the best. And today, unfortunately, the political system worldwide owes the banks a great deal, from its election campaign still. Cheques are redeemed either individually or in the political process. If this is the case by the teachers, the teachers - the sacred word "teacher" - that is, that they tell their students, tomorrow's representatives - not representatives - of Themida and the administration of justice, they will lose families, because the Greeks are tied to the tile and to their home and do not do so by fraud. Because of the memorial - you know very well - they've booked business, they've lost their job. The Greeks will cry and will never forgive us, for even the myth of Antaios is no accident. Look at it a little. Against justice, against society - regardless of what you said - justice teachers must do well. It is a matter of serious concern, because otherwise there has not been the Member in general or the governmental shape of any government, in any country when these things happen. There must be justice against the social fabric and the popular strata. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u8	First of all, Mr Colleague, you are giving me the opportunity to tell you what initiatives I will take personally, the Ministry of Justice and the Government, in the near future to resolve this matter. Before, however, I tell you this, because you raised a more general political issue, I would like to ask you a rhetorical question: must there be total protection of the first home for both the rich and the poor? You must respond to this as a constructive opposition. If you want me to tell you my own personal opinion, I will tell you that we want to protect those who really need it. That is why we extended the protection framework for the first residence, which by decision of the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government expired on 31 December 2019 until today. That's the reality. Now let's go to the point where we need to see. All that, you say, I understand and you know very well what our opinion might be. There is no such issue and no one could see anything more than just the return of true justice. What, then, is the reality today? Even today we are talking about, there are cases of L.3869/2010, which are pending, identified as fair after 1 January 2021. I was going to tell you that today is the day after 2027. If you consider that these pending applications have been submitted, perhaps before 2015, you realise that Greece is faced with a reality that does not exist anywhere in Europe in relation to the length of the trial, which, to a very large extent, goes far beyond the requirements of European reality. We therefore need to see - and here it is, in fact, the great bet of both the government and the Ministry of Justice - how we can speed up the debate on the applications made by L.3869/2010, which have been pending a long time ago. That is why we have completed a framework of arrangements. We have not succeeded in bringing this to the attention of the Greek Parliament these days. I would like to believe that once the House has reopened, Mr President, immediately after the short interruption of August, we will be able to complete it and bring in arrangements that will put an end to the civil law regulations of this law, of Law No.3869/2010, which have been the subject of at least five related legislative interventions. We will be able to stop a long-term loose end, because some of the good-faithed borrowers are under burdensome peculiarity, and the strategic poor payers are in a regime that is not tolerated by the legitimate quasi-protection class. Why don't we see it? That's true, too. Don't think it's as small a percentage of strategic malpractices as we want to believe. We must, however, because this means rule of law, ensuring that cases are dealt more quickly, which, in some cases, even after 2027 have been identified. We want to ensure the borrower, who is entitled to the protection of the law. And we want the natural judge within a reasonable time, as required by Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, to be able to create conditions of reasonable duration. The previous government, you know, had undertaken an obligation: it would all end it, i.e. eliminate the outstanding cases of the Katseli Act by December 2021. In this obligation - I want to be clear to you - we are also determined to respond to the protection and credibility of our country and the effective protection of borrowers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u9	And that's what you're closing down with, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u10	I'm closing, Mr. President. My political will, as I have committed myself to a recent meeting with most of the representatives and heads of the peace process, is to strengthen them by all the appropriate means in order to meet these obligations. Mr President, I am closing with this, Mr President-in-Office, to tackle the overcompensation of households and businesses is one of the main objectives of the New Democracy Government and Prime Minister. The dialogue between the co-legislative Ministries for the preparation of a new institutional framework for debt regulation, bankruptcy and debt relief, as you know, has been opened. Very briefly, therefore - and I say this as a news in response to your question - we will have a new single framework for the insolvency of natural and legal persons. In this way, the government shows that it is consistent not only in the basic obligations of the country, but also in the self-evident dimension of protecting Greek citizens and creating a true rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u11	We move to the first under No 966/27-7-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject of: "The adoption of a Joint Ministerial Decision (CCA) laying down the terms, conditions and procedures for the application of Article 123 of Law 4674/2020". Mr Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, Article 76 of Law 4443/2016 stipulates that if a municipal company of any legal form, which is cleared, is able by the respective municipalities to claim payment of the principal debts only, exempt from the additional fees, surcharges and all that is borne by the principal debt. This legislation of the previous government has led certain municipalities - a few - to take this decision in the case of a company solution to the municipalities, by taking over the main debt by decision of the municipal council. The same government is coming and the post-thinks and says in 2017 that there is now no exemption for additional fees and surcharges. He also confirmed it by a law in 2018. Thus, it created the following problem: municipalities that, with a given regime, took the decision to take the debts, then found themselves with an additional financial burden because the government did not provide for a transitional period. We have tabled an amendment, which you have rightly accepted, because it gives a fair solution to the problem, with the prediction that those who have made the decision with a given regime, should conclude the procedure with that regime. It is essentially the transitional provision which the previous Government had not provided for, which blocked municipal authorities to take a decision under another scheme and then charged them. I would therefore like to see, Minister, what stage is the adoption of the joint ministerial decision provided for in Article 123 of the recent law, Article 4476/2020, which solves the problem for these municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. As you quite rightly said, Mr Kegeroglu, there was indeed the problem with 'comparable' provisions for the resolution of businesses. When we discussed Law 4674, the Change Movement actually tabled an amendment that was accepted by the Minister of the Interior and actually incorporated into the text of the law. Unfortunately, there was this problem: there was only one deadline for the adoption of the decision and for the quarter that expired - so it expired in June 2020 - it coincided with the climax of the coronary crisis, so that the consultations between the three ministries involved in the adoption of the common ministerial decision do not have to be concluded. Therefore, the plan has been prepared, it has been moved for opinion, for comments, and on the basis of the plan, the deadline is over. However, because, obviously, this municipality - like many others who may have the same topic - has no responsibility, we have already taken over and submitted an amendment to Rule 123 to the General Secretariat of Parliament and the Legal Affairs Committee so that the 'exclusive deadline' can come out. This, according to the knowledge we have so far and the information, will be voted on immediately after the House opens up to the bill that the Ministry of Interior will bring on citizenship. The decision is ready, it has been agreed with the relevant ministries. So it's a matter of very few days, after the FEK was issued, to move on. And it will be in exactly the same spirit, according to what we have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u15	Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor, even though I think the answer went well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, it is very positive that you have made this provision, because the deadlines for all, I would say - or what is needed - have already been extended by legislation and decisions by the Government, because of the 'dead' period of the coronary, for the operation of certain services. I would say, however, that the exclusive deadline, as set out in the laws, is an obligation for the ministries to adopt decisions and, in fact, in order to ensure the administration and the management. It does not prohibit the expression 'exclusively three months' to the Government to adopt the joint Ministerial Decision in this legislation. If for legal certainty you go to the regulation that renews this deadline or improves the possibility at the request of a municipality and a joint ministerial decision will be issued for that municipality only, so that there is no further procedure, it is welcome. But we'll wait to see from September how exactly you'll solve it. Thank you very much for the immediate response. However, I am telling you again that it is not forbidden for other cases that may occur. It's not forbidden. It is for the safety of the commander and not forbidden for the administration to adopt the decision even now. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u18	I shall be brief again, Mr President. Because it was the phrase 'exclusive deadline', this raised the matter. If he said "within three months", for example, it would be different. The 'exclusive deadline' requires special rules for legal certainty. In any case, I am in contact with the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas and with its Secretary-General and the mayor, in order to move this forward. At the beginning of September, the amendment of the regulation will have been made and the joint ministerial decision will then be adopted, the content of which - and you know that from your own experience - will be very easy to proceed with with the other two co-legislative ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u19	We move to the first with number 962/27-7-2020, a topical question for the second question by the MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "Application of measures for housing about 400 Roma in Aspropyrgos after demolition of their accommodation. Take emergency measures to protect health’. I guess you mean public health. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in New Zoe Aspropyrgos about a few days ago, about 100 Roma accommodations were demolished. In fact, according to the Roma themselves, this demolition took place without any warning and much more care for relocation and housing in about eighty four families - four hundred people in the number - who are currently living under terrible conditions on the debris of their accommodation. The situation, as you can see, becomes even more serious as we are in the middle of a pandemic. And as long as measures are not taken, the health of these people and the health of the entire population in the region is at stake. As the Pan-Hellenic Confederation of Greek Romans "Hellenic Passe", denounced us, in an attempt to contact the municipal authority of Egyptians to find a solution, they faced unacceptable racist behaviour by local officials. We also note that by decision of the European Court of Justice on 10-7-2020, we ask the Greek State to answer whether there is an alternative and whether there is a housing provision. It is understood that, at times which government proclaims over time "to protect human rights", "for social inclusion of the Roma" and many others, which are hollow words or fragmentary measures, are in no way a solution to the problem. In fact, many times this population is being exploited by governments as a rival victim, so that the various governments, regional and municipal authorities escape their political responsibilities. So we ask you, Minister, what measures the government intends to take so that, firstly, the housing of these people can be ensured immediately by covering all health and safety rules and, secondly, by protecting their health and the rest of the region, as we are in a pandemic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Syntagakis, you have raised an issue which is very important and which concerns a group of our fellow people who have actually been in the face of the particular situation you have described. In the Municipality of Aspropyrgos, these people had settled on private land. There was a request from the owners of these facilities, on the grounds of health, to remove the camp from the Municipality of Aspropyrgos. It did, therefore, clean up the private space in the presence of the Protocol's prosecutor and then recorded the arbitrary buildings, as we are aware. All this, at the end of June, until 8 July, the provisional order of the European Court of Human Rights which gives the directive, the mandate - if you like - to reach agreement in order to find a way and place for the relocation of these people. The relocation decision shall be adopted by a coordinator of the decentralised administration. Already the Ministry of Labour and the General Secretariat have held a meeting - on July 7, 8 - with the municipality and stakeholders, in order to find the way to relocate. I want to say that especially on the issue of pandemic, because there were problems in Larissa, there were problems in other Roma settlements, the census in 2018 shows that at present there are seventy-six highly degraded areas, which do not even have electricity, sewerage, water, where there are about eight and a half thousand Roma left. In Type II camp, which is mixed, with fewer infrastructure, it is about sixty thousand fellow citizens who live in about sixty settlements. In the Type III settlements, which are neighborhoods where there may be degraded areas, where either building, container or sewed structures may be available, there are about thirty - six thousand people who live. In total, we are talking about a number of thousands of people in the country as a whole. We, therefore, as the Ministry of Interior when the epidemic broke out and at the beginning of the crisis, supported the municipalities, based on the population of each camp, in order to take the first measures necessary to protect public health, which could have been the provision of primary supplies, which could have been some sort of immobilisation, to cast some sand on the camps so that quality of life could be slightly improved. I will conclude by saying that the Ministry of Labour and the General Secretariat have done everything in relation to relocation in order to resolve this issue as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, although they have passed - and I remember well - about twenty days since the demolition event had taken place, so far no solution has been found. And you know, here we are talking about violent prosecuting the Roma from the camp, without finding an alternative to their relocation. And that is the result of the policy of marginalisation over time by all governments. And despite the various governments' promises of measures to support these people, in practice there is no concern of the state. You say 'private land'. Didn't the Ministry of Labour, along with the General Secretariat, have to ensure in advance a new place of relocation of these people, so as to ensure their housing and health in pandemic conditions? And in the presence of a prosecutor, only in the name of being private land, they tear down the homes of these people and throw them down the street. You know, these people sought and found a solution there to the need for their housing, never taking any support measures or finding a viable relocation site on time. And what was the solution? The suppression. Because this violence is being persecuted by an entire social group. And you know, this is a practice that rekindles, lights up phenomena of racism, racial hatred, etc. The representatives of their confederation at the meeting with our party delegation a few days ago raised the acute problems facing the Roma in the region and the long-term absence of social inclusion measures. In fact, they denounced - to see the size of the crackdown on the part of the municipal authority and with the tolerance of this government or the indifference - the unacceptable attitude of the municipal authority of the Egyptians who, at a meeting with them, expressed obscene, racist views such as 'take them home', 'we did not break down homes, we collected garbage'. I mean, these people are garbage. Such phenomena appear in the year 2020. And you know, these phenomena aren't only phenomena in the Egyptian-Pyrgos region, they're in too many parts of the country. Eighty-six camps, as you said, various other neighborhood settlements, etc., face this racist behaviour and racial discrimination from governments, municipal authorities or even - even from extreme right-wing groups that are circulating. However, as a Communist Party of Greece, what we are asking for is to ensure that these people's housing is immediately guaranteed under all the conditions required for their safe living, such as light, water, sewerage, other infrastructure, until they are immediately found, under the responsibility of the government and in cooperation with the municipality and the Region of Attica. In view of the pandemic and the risk, prevention measures should be taken to prevent the spread of the coronary to the Roma. Visiting doctor staircases and conducting mass tests. To provide free masks, antiseptics, gloves, bleachers, soaps. Ensure also full medical care and the availability of necessary personnel to monitor their health. In addition, we have tabled a report from the Roma confederacy 2-4-2020 calling for immediate measures to prevent the spread of the coronary in the eighty-six camps. The answer given by the Ministry two months later, 27-5-2020, not only shows delay and contempt for the Roma, but also any measures you mention in it is extremely inadequate. So, 2,500,000 euros to meet the needs of preventing and spreading the coronary? It is only for laughter this sum of EUR 2.5 million. They don't cover the elementary ones either. In addition, however, it is important that while there is L.4383/2017, which refers to the temporary relocation of special social groups, with a view to ensuring decent living conditions and, indeed, a joint ministerial decision has been adopted since February 2008, so far has not been used.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Synthraki, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u26	That is, it could have been before the Roma accommodations were dismantled - and I conclude - that these specific provisions had been implemented. And yet you didn't. You have a responsibility and you must immediately move forward in relocating these people for their security and shelter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u27	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u28	We will agree that obviously any phenomenon of racism is also condemned and in no way contributes to solving the problem facing this population. We must also agree that, for the first time in the pandemic, special care has been taken by the Ministry of Interior. The 2.5 million may seem a lot to you, it may seem a little bit of help, but it was a help to the municipalities, especially for the Roma and especially to deal with the first costs of the coronary. I think it was also a sign of the sensitivity shown by the Ministry of Interior, so that in a way and criteria, with the population of living people as well, we can help these populations. The President-in-Office of the Council, for example, took a sum of EUR 40,000. I will testify for the Minutes and for your information all the response the history of the Municipality of Assyprus has, to see what he answers and details all the incidents. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Theodoros Lebanon, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Obviously, we, as the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Labour, will speed up the process of finding a solution immediately, in order to find a place of establishment, temporary in the first phase, I suppose, and I imagine it to be final in the wider future. We must also - and it is very important - agree that both sides need to take steps, and both Roma want to integrate, integrate and relocate in appropriate conditions, but obviously the central government must also help in every way, including the legislation that exists and the legislative framework, so that the solution to this problem can go ahead. You know, it happens and I live in the wider area. I know the problem very well. In the elementary school where half the class was Roma children. So I know the efforts made by many of them to settle, integrate and solve the problem. I know some people aren't ready to integrate yet. In any case, we will do everything, especially on the issue of the Egyptian Prime Minister, to find a solution so that there is no risk to the health and well-being of our fellow people, but above all there is no risk of health for the inhabitants and the wider region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u29	We're getting to the last question. The Minister of Tourism will answer Mr. Theocharis, who is present. It is the second with number 960/27-7-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Parliamentary Heraklion Crete of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Tourism - as I said before - on the issue of the risk to public health and the very beginning of the tourist season, due to incomplete protection measures. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u30	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, the start of the tourist season and Crete, which has a very significant share of total Greek arrivals, with over a thousand five hundred hotels, is of great concern to the inhabitants of tourist areas, to workers in the sector, but also to the visitors themselves, due to the lack of effective protection from the horn pandemic. This concern is growing. You know that the imported cases of the coronary are growing day after day, as are the total cases. Especially in recent days, cases have increased significantly. In addition, the risk of the virus being spread by tourists is visible, as they are only subject to a sample check, reaching the island without the necessary systematic and universal measures being applied to aeroplanes and ships. At the same time, there are significant shortcomings in the public health system for doctors and health staff, making it impossible to provide the necessary health services and carry out mass tests on workers and tourists at the main gates of tourist entry to Crete. Police and firefighters are being charged to cover the huge gaps in health staff, and there are also serious deficiencies in measures and measures to protect workers' health, as well as lack of spaces with specific specifications for carrying out tests and all health care of possible cases. There are also unacceptable deficiencies in the EAW and the lack of a specific case transfer plan from the airport to EAW at quarantine hotels, where workers are forced to work in outbreaks of infection, since they are not qualified personnel and their services have to do exclusively with hotel services. In addition, flexible health protocols for hotels justified cause concern to workers, even to owners of units and room rentals. This unacceptable situation jeopardizes public health and the very beginning of the tourist season, precisely because of the policy applied over time, which is at the cost of the people's health. So we ask you, Minister: in view of the above situation, what measures does the government intend to take to protect the health of the inhabitants of Crete, of workers at airports, of tourist buses, of hotels, of restaurants and other seasonal occupations of the self-employed in tourism and of tourists visiting our country and our island this year? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Synthraki, I don't see you reading the data as it is. But beyond the reality, which I will try to describe, I do not understand what you are proposing. If you propose the universal test - up to a million thousand to a million three thousand tourists - have so far come over, that is to say, a million three hundred thousand tests in our country, what you are proposing is that Greek tourism should be closed down. Because there are no possibilities and there is no possibility for any country to do this. Therefore, what you say to every worker in the tourist business is that you propose that he stay unemployed. That's what you tell the workers and don't say around - around other things. Have the courage of your opinion and say: I want you to sit at your house. I want you not to work. I was in Crete, I spoke with the workers in all the prefectures and the cry of agony I heard is the cry of agony of people who want to work, not the cry of agony of people fearing imported cases. Let's go now to this issue of imported or non-sensitive cases. Our country first of all - first of all! - has an integrated protection plan for citizens and guests. He's presided over on multiple levels. Firstly, we do not open up all the countries and open up carefully and gradually. For Great Britain, for example, while other countries opened up from the beginning of July, we opened 15 July and saw other countries that were raped, having problems. We have not opened up to third countries, although there are too many pressures and every day I receive questions and nuisances from hoteliers and tourist professionals about what we will do with Russia, with Ukraine, with the United States, with Israel, with a number of countries. However, our country is careful and always relies on what we are told by epidemiologists. Secondly, we have a groundbreaking system with the form, which everyone is obliged to complete, and everyone is now complete before they come to our country and the targeted checks that we are doing. Our targeted checks show that we don't have many imported cases. We've got a thousand in cases of the tests we've done. We did more than 30 thousand yesterday, Mr. Hardalias had the information. In over 30 thousand at airports, they found a thousand in cases. We are doing thorough and systematic checks and these checks are carried out targeted. We therefore find more cases than the average population that comes to us. Thirdly, we have the health protocols that are generally respected. Contrary to the misinformation you want to pass here in the House, I have to tell you that all the mobile units that have carried out targeted tests on workers - precisely because, like you, we had the agony, if there is a case of imported cases going through the workers who serve them in the general population, because this is the point of contact - they have not found a positive sample of hundreds of thousands of posts in food and tourism workers. This means that in practice and in general the health protocols are operated and respected. Of course, all of us need to comply with the safety rules, which here is a relaxation. The proof of what I'm telling you is that it's not the imported cases that have increased over the last few days is the cases in Attica, Thessaloniki. It's not in Halkidiki, it's not in Crete, it's not in Rhodes, Kos, Corfu, the Ionian islands. It's not where the tourists went. Athens, which has really few tourists, compared to what someone would expect at this time, has had increased cases, and that is why we all have the responsibility to observe the rules and to take care of them. There may also be cases that have come with the more general opening up of borders, because opening up of borders does not only have tourism, it also has land workers, it also has people who have homes on either side of our borders in the Balkans, who have a special outburst and may have brought us back from there. However, do not connect cases with tourism, because there is no increase in cases there. Our country has a system, the system works, we change it every day because it is dynamic and we monitor it. You saw Serbia a few days ago with Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u33	The rest in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u34	Yes, Mr President, the rest in my dentext, I just want to say that our system works and no worker - I want to assure you - must not be afraid, provided that the protocols are respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u35	Just a minute, Mr. Synhonaki. On the occasion, the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulas, instructed me to inform you from a point of view that he accepted the recommendation of the Health Committee of the Parliament - of course not at meetings such as the present parliamentary control, which we are three, and the cocoon in the Chamber - and at regular meetings that will be of more than 100 people, we will use masks in the plenary sitting, which each colleague will be provided by the clerk who will be at the door. Before he gets in, he'll give him his mask. Minister, in your denunciation to make a clarification, because I saw that already yesterday in the restaurants in my neighborhood in Pangrati there has been a confusion, compared to what has been said that the customer who will enter - not the one sitting out now that is summer - must wear a mask. You realize that if this is the case and they haven't understood it wrong, it can't be practically done. So, when he's eating, what's he gonna do? He's gonna take the mask off, put the coconut in his mouth and put the mask back on? Is that what you're gonna do? Just clarify this today, so people know what they're gonna do. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I would say that the government is in vain and misguided to reassure the islanders and workers to create a fraudulent picture that the islands are protected from the coronary pandemic. And the question is, whether or not the imported, like the total, cases of the coronary are increasing? They grow and will grow by day. If we do not see this reality in the face, then we will pay it very expensive and in this respect the government assumes a great responsibility for the risk of health and safety, for workers and tourists and for the whole population. The question is not whether or not we want tourism, Minister, or whether or not the phony is unemployed or workers are being employed, the question is why not all the necessary measures are taken to safeguard the health and safety of human life. That is the question and this question you must answer very specifically and, unfortunately, the government is hiding the real picture. I will tell you that 20 days ago the cases in Crete, as others were registered on the GOV. Gr was 20, and now she's fifty. It's fifty, I'm talking about Crete. You hide the real picture, you're not telling the truth. So we don't misinform. It is far from us and you know very well that when the JRC speaks, it speaks with very specific elements. Why are you hiding the truth from her? Because you probably do not want the country to be exposed internationally by foreign news agencies. Beware, however, of the short- and long-term consequences of the pandemic, both to visitors and local residents. And this is the greatest defamation for tourism. It's the biggest defamation for tourism. That is, everything here is sacrificed on the altar of the profits of business groups, hotel groups, air, shipping, agents, tour operators. Therefore, profits and safety of human life are not compatible. So it is the government's responsibility to deal with these issues. You know very well that the planes are becoming absolute crowded and are an animated sanitary bomb. Can you explain that to us? What are the measures you have taken? Just wear a mask on the plane? When we at the same time say there must be one and a half meters away from each other? Don't you know the shortcomings of doctors and health staff? Don't you know that firefighters and the police at airports have been recruited to carry out health checks? In fact, they put their hand in the pocket and bought the plaques so that firefighters could protect themselves. And many other issues related to health surveillance and care of tourists in hotels. Who is responsible for the monitoring and care of tourists in hotels? Tell me who? Does the state take over? Are the reference hospitals taking over? Where are the doctors? Where are the nurses? Businesses themselves are responsible for the business. And I'm asking you where it's from the health protocols, which have become leafy and feathery right now. Because a company cannot alone assume responsibility for the protection of human life and much more when it has been given the opportunity in the first phase of the pandemic to take measures with the recruitment of medical staff and so far nothing has been done at all. With significant shortages in gloves, masks and other means to be provided. Because you told me about the JRC's positions, we have submitted them too many times and they relate to the safe attendance and residence of tourists in the country and of the workers and residents themselves, but they simply do not get into the balance between the interests of business groups, which sacrifice human life. Firstly, direct staffing measures and equipment for all public health structures as well as preventive control on visitors, workers and permanent residents. Direct coverage with appointments of permanent staff of all gaps. To order the private hospitals and clinics that exist on the islands and to include the self-employed doctors in the state plan. To have effective preventive control over large tourist units in the tourist areas, in the villages with mass tests. Thermometers in tourists, workers, permanent residents by doctors and health personnel.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u37	Mr Colleagues, please conclude, because we need to get into the draft law debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u38	Yes, Mr President, because the Minister told me about proposals. Finally, these and many others are some of the measures proposed by the JRC. They're just in their ears.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u39	Deposit them in the Minutes, after you have them ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u40	We have it, Mr President, several times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u41	As you wish. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, first of all I would like to clarify what you have asked me. There's no obligation for customers in restaurants to wear masks.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u43	Okay, it's clear because there's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u44	It is obvious that it is compulsory for employees, waiters and others to wear masks to protect themselves. The JRC's positions did not need so much to be told by Mr. Synthrakis. He told us with a word. He said "false dilemma" unemployment or work on the JRC. It's a phony, it's a phony wish for an unemployed person to have a job. No, Mr. Sympathy, for this government, it's not a fake. We'll work from morning to night, so that we can safely open our tourism so that the last worker can get a job this year...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u45	That's why it's a fake thing to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u46	And protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u47	The thing is work...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Synatiakis, you don't have to get upset. The facts are flawing you. If you have a problem, deal with reality. We don't have any workers in our hospitals suffering from coronary. I told you before, the mobile units did hundreds of thousands of work tests and they didn't find a positive one. You're telling us they haven't been hired. I tell you that the recruitments, especially for Crete, from the document that I received from the 7th RCD, have begun the process for eighty-three permanent and seventeen assistants. Fifty-five permanents have already taken office, the six have been recruited by the assistants and the others are in the recruitment process. The EKAB...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u49	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u50	You had time to talk about it. You don't need to talk outside of the microphone. They don't record, so it doesn't make any sense. So I tell you that there is a comprehensive plan and a plan for Crete. The agony of Crete, do you know who it is? Go a little bit to the island and ask. The agony of Crete is: Is there any chance of being cut off, while we are going well in health, because of another region in our country? That's what they're writing to me today in messages. Watch out for Attica, watch out elsewhere, do not exclude us as the Great Britain has ruled out. This is what the heart of tourism is hitting in our country and Crete. She must be represented. So I say to you, to clarify, that our country is fully following all the doctors' health protocols. And since there has also been a debate, I take the opportunity to say on the cruise issue. This year our country is investing for the next few years, it is building for its tourism, it is building its relationship with the various tourism companies, so that in the coming years we will also have the financial results. We have never said that we want tourism to be compared with the numbers of the past, because it does not matter. Safety, health and quality are important. The cruise shall be opened following a recommendation from the Sanitary Committee. Greek doctors built the cruise protocols for all of Europe, and these can be the standard for the rest of the world as well. I read very briefly what these protocols include from the Greek doctors of our health committee, who made them for the whole of Europe. ‘Working check for all passengers before boarding, for all crew members before taking up duties and every two weeks. Information, education, physical distance, sanitary hands part of the daily protocols. Daily crew health monitoring and written emergency plan that operates with the port for mechanisms, for early detection and steps in the event of a case at sea’. These protocols follow and allow us to be pioneers in the world, not because we will have many ships, not large ones. There's no danger. But our country is in the lead. It has good relations with these companies so that in the next few years we can safely have successful tourism. Our country will do everything in its power to safeguard the health of workers and the results prove that we are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. We will have a short break before we enter the legislative work agenda in order to reconstitute here, to get all the rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives from all parties to come. The government's here. We'll start at 10: 15.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only a discussion and a vote on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Forensic interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2020/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, a public contribution for the repayment of loans for affected borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVID disease -19 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 23 July 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. In addition, I would like to tell you that registration is free. As soon as Mr. Anastastiadis goes to Stepma, the registration system will be opened and as soon as Mr. Moraitis comes down from the Step, the system will be closed. We will see how many colleagues will be present and then we will determine together at about the end of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u53	The House unanimously agreed. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt at all that the period that we have lived in recent years has been unprecedented for all of us. Faced with the health and social crisis caused by the coronary pandemic was a test for society, a challenge for the state and the government. The daily lives of the citizens have changed. The relationship between the state and the citizen has been tested and forged. It has been difficult to make decisions, but they have brought results. The government's priority was to protect human life. It has managed in time and boldly and decisively to this very serious situation. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis understood the problem in time and did not hesitate to order brave and difficult measures. The determination and daring of the Prime Minister and the government have brought our country to be among the best performing countries in terms of the management of the pandemic. At the same time, the reforms launched by the government before the crisis and targeted pandemic interventions have kept the recession on the European Union average at very low levels since the first quarter of 2020. Thus, within this short period of time of the crisis, measures were taken first to strengthen the public health system, support employment and the liquidity of businesses. Sadly, however, the crisis is still here and maintains at the forefront policies on the sustainability of enterprises, employment support, the safeguarding of liquidity in the market, in order to address the shocks caused by the economy and to keep unemployment low. Settlements that are not easy to calculate yet. We realise that the consequences will be great and will relate to the whole society, that we have to face enormous difficulties, that the strengths of society, the finances of the state, the labour and social relations are being hardened. However, our Government is moving on with plan and confidence, it has a strategy and is determined to deplete every financial margin so that it supports businesses, workers, pensioners, every citizen affected by the pandemic crisis. The financial staff and the government, moving in this direction, have tabled the bill we are debating today in the House and are coming to face the economic consequences of the crisis, to support the Greek economy, businesses and farmers and to relieve the households who have been so hurt and tested in the last few years since the pandemic crisis. In this context, the provisions aimed at attracting investment and creating a favourable tax climate are introduced. These are provisions that strengthen the affected social groups, with targeted tax exemptions, with the aim of supporting jobs and strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Interventions which always take account of them and of the environmental objectives, but also the policies of the government. Natural persons are encouraged to transfer their tax residence from a foreign country to Greece at a tax rate of 7% for 15 years and with exemption from the special solidarity levy, with the conditions that they are not tax residents of Greece, five out of the last six years before transferring their tax residence to Greece and transferring their tax residence from a country with which our country has an administrative cooperation agreement in the field of tax cooperation. The introduction of this measure, which is already being implemented successfully in several European Union countries, will help increase public revenue. The bill provides for exemption from the free disposal of shares and operative domestic tourism from employee income tax. This regulation is particularly favourable to both workers and businesses, particularly to tourism enterprises which have been particularly affected by the pandemic crisis. In this connection, the possibility of deducting any costs incurred by the sacred monasteries of Mount Athos from income from renting immovable property. Thus, the religious and charitable work of the sacred monks is strengthened. The exemption in force in respect of the property tax and the taxation of donations relating to movable assets of Greek residents resident abroad is extended. Incentives to purchase first homes shall be strengthened. This is done by abolishing the self-taxation of money donations and parental benefits from parents to children to buy first home. This recognises the true contribution of parents to supporting and addressing family needs. At the same time, however, it is also a support and a boost to building activity. The suspension of a trade fee for farmers of normal VAT arrangements and coastal fishermen is laid down. The government recognises the primary sector's contribution to our economy and supports the efforts of these people, farmers and fishermen to cope with the difficult situation they have experienced as a result of the pandemic crisis. In addition, a new system of progressive passenger car taxation is introduced. With the reintroduction of the progressive taxation in relation to the escalator, which was the case with the previous law, the way in which vehicles are taxed is fairer. What does that practically mean? With the law that the SYRIZA government passed in 2016, if a used car had a customs value of 14,000 euros, it had a 4% registration fee. If the same car of the same old age, with an extra element of equipment and a tariff-rate difference of EUR 1, 2, 3 or 5, would pay a registration fee of 8% over the whole amount, i.e. twice the registration fee for the same car. With the draft legislation, the citizen will pay twice the registration fee only for the excess amount, namely EUR 1, 2,3,5 in excess of EUR 14,000. In other words, cars of the same old age and category will be treated exactly the same way. This means that the law becomes fairer and constitutional, because it also meets the principle of proportionality. So we have a reduction in the corresponding registration fee for the majority of vehicles, an increase in the State's revenues and, above all, a reduction in cars from 1,400 cubic metres to 2,000 cubic metres - cars which are also the cars used by the average citizen - and of course a benefit to the citizen. It is also abrogated by this draft law and the provision for the application of the historical fee, a provision which has brought too many problems to a close of the process and protests because there were delays of six, eight and ten months, but also a loss of revenue for the State. The discount of 75% for caravans creates a new car market and allows for car tourism to develop in our country as well. In simple terms, for a self-propelled caravan that the citizen has had to pay EUR 10,000 so far, with the provision introduced in this draft law will pay EUR 2 500. The same, Minister - we have also told the committees - could also apply to the ambulances. It could also - and it is a proposal - abolish the environmental ending of EUR 1 000 for Euro 5 cars only for agricultural and business vehicles. Incentives are being made to renew the fleet of cars that are circulating with new environmentally friendly cars. More generally, the introduction of new cars is favoured and the market in cars is stimulated. At the same time, the registration fee for low-polluter hybrid cars is further reduced, as well as for full exemption for electric cars. In this way, the competitiveness of the shipping-related business is enhanced. Exemptions shall be granted from customs duties, excise duties and excise duties on goods used for the supply of professional ships. The VAT rate on sports games tickets is reduced. The aim is to maintain, at a low level, or even to reduce, the final prices of tickets, as well as to stimulate these demand. Therefore, it is indirectly supported in this way by the teams, the AOCs, the sports clubs, which have also been affected by the pandemic crisis. Income tax advance for tax year 2019 shall be reduced. Important intervention to enhance the viability of enterprises through increased business liquidity. Interventions in the field of out-of-court settlement of pending tax disputes before the courts are important. They aim to resolve disputes quickly, to dismantle administrative justice and stimulate tax revenue. European directives are incorporating, concerning the establishment of a tax dispute resolution mechanism at European Union level. Administrative cooperation between the Member States of the European Union is envisaged against aggressive tax planning and the introduction of rules against tax evasion. On the basis of these new rules, the aim is to better determine the taxable income in Greece, but also in the other countries - members of the European Union. The provisions of the draft law shall be amended and the framework for the functioning of the Law Council of the State shall be defined. Finally, one of the most important chapters of this draft law may be the legislation concerning the public contribution to repayment of loans for first home borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the krone. These arrangements are summarised in the ‘GEYRA’ programme on the protection of first residence. This is a programme which is considerably enlarged in relation to Law 4605/2019 of the previous government. The SYRIZA Government, in February 2019, abolished the protection of first residence. It then formed a framework which did not guarantee the protection of all borrowers. So we inherited a framework involving loans, which were not served until 31-12-2018. The Government of New Democracy is setting up a new loan grant programme including up-to-date borrowers. This is a programme whereby the State will grant a significant proportion of the monthly instalments for housing and business loans, with a mortgage on the principal residence of the people affected by the consequences of the coronary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. More specifically, the GEOFYRA programme is taking an important step towards the management of private debt. It broadens the type of beneficiaries and covers all categories of people affected by the consequences of the pandemic. The new arrangement includes natural persons, workers in sectors affected and freelance professionals, unemployed who receive exceptional support, natural persons with a monthly wage reduction, professionals who have had a reduction in their business activity - that is, they have had a reduction of more than 20% of VAT - in the second quarter of 2020 compared to the corresponding quarter of 2019, beneficiaries who received aid in the form of a repayable advance, natural persons who are part of the ‘COMPAN - WORK’ employment support mechanism, property owners receiving a reduced rental. For all the above categories of persons affected, State aid is granted for both services and non-performing loans which reach up to EUR 600 on a case-by-case basis. The programme's innovation is that for the first time, consistent borrowers are rewarded with serviced loans, which have been affected by the pandemic. This supports all borrowers, strengthens social cohesion, supports vulnerable social classes, cultivates payment culture and reduces the risk of creating a new generation of red loans because of the pandemic. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the bill we are debating today before the House is yet another successful intervention by the Government and the Ministry of Finance. The financial staff, interpreting the consequences of the crisis, the needs and problems of society, drafts a bill that comes to support those affected by the economic crisis. It gives solutions to issues relating to the Greek people, strengthens the sense of security, social cohesion and justice. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy, consistent with their commitments, with effective interventions support the Greek family, entrepreneurship, work and even very difficult times, such as the ones we live today, concerning reforms aimed at improving public administration for the benefit of the entire Greek people. This objective serves this draft law, which, of course, we support and call on all the groups in this House to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u55	The SYRIZA general rapporteur, Mr Athanasios Morraitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another bill of government without any cohesion, an example of poor legislation, but at the same time a bill on which the government is struggling to describe it as developmental, even by changing the title. It is a bill that has nothing to do with development. I would call it a micrograph of your political failure. You are, of course, - and we are seeing this this last year - the government of the failed state of service. You have been elected by the flag of merit and excellence and you have unfortunately created a state of favoured, well-known and best friends. It proves this and the numbers of retired people, who not only fast-track the ministerial offices, but are unfortunately also placed in the positions of heads of government. Without accountability, they handle public money. At the same time, however, you are legislating provisions abolishing the list of successful bidders at the Legal Council of State. In addition to the criticism I made at the meetings of the committees, we were also told that the letter from the chairman of the bar Associations, which highlights both the opaqueness of changing the provision at the last minute and the violation of the principles of good administration. You are making arrangements that abolish public rating committees and at the same time mobilising to secretly appoint your own people, to secretly appoint your chosen ones. Of course you are also a government - because I see half the financial staff here - of the unsuccessful economic policy. The numbers are relentless. But you, who brought the recession before the pandemic door hit, imagine - and you tell us every day - the recovery and support of productivity through the notorious Pissaridis report, which we have asked for and which we are calling for today because we need to see. We can't read her excerpts in reports. I remember that the Minister invited us all to assist in a joint development plan - to assist opposition - but we learn that in the IGC you will now bring the framework of the new project ready. At the same time, you are putting the pill on the European Recovery Fund's money. And we all know that you have taken other things, and of course you are going to do it. You are not telling the truth about the amounts or the supervision that comes. You have found money from the pillow left by the SYRIZA government, but you have not brought any measures until now that will strengthen the work, which will strengthen small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in a phase that is now going through too difficult and experience the deadlocks that it has in front of it. What's actually happening? The insurance funds have a hole of EUR 3.7 billion because of the inability of businesses to meet their insurance obligations, and this must give you particular concern. The deficit is scoring and revenue is falling apart. We have a shortfall of EUR 4 billion and a primary deficit of more than EUR 6 billion. At the same time, however, you are abolishing the provision of reduced insurance contributions for new professionals and self-employed persons for the first five years of insurance. You have, however, promised EUR 25 000 microfinance for the new entrepreneurship. What does that mean? On the one hand, you'll give it to them, and on the other hand, you'll get it. I would like to raise an issue that is very important and comes to us, the MPs daily: Two hundred and fifty thousand professionals will have to pay retroactively new contributions in favour of subsidiary insurance and the industry only in the first half of 2020. There is one question here: Where will they be able to find them? The EUR 534 in June has not yet been received by many beneficiaries. Of course, we have heard Mr Brutsi who said they have to be patient and when the time comes they will receive them. One month without income, however, cannot be redeemed with patience. In tourism things are much worse than expected, and September is not far away to see the survival of seasonal workers, who do not know how they will make the year, but unfortunately also the businessmen who are in the industry and experience desperation. Your ministers say so too. And I come to the last thing before I get clearly into the bill. Farmers and farmers are at zero. On Friday, the European Commission approved State aid of 51.23 million, but the Development Ministry, and here again it proposes patience by the end of September, because - listen a little - bureaucratic procedures are needed. And here comes a big question: This 'final state', which you have created, where is it in these difficult cases, such as the one we are going through? At the same time, the measures you take to fill my money are favourable arrangements for a few and privileged and measures which strangle the income of productive forces. I'm bringing an example. I told you, Minister, and at committee meetings, I would say this today. Bring the provisions that favour coaches with very good contracts. I asked you one question: How many is this legislative provision? I don't think there's more than a hundred people in the whole country. At the same time, you are bringing in provisions that favour the lower taxation of bonuses and shareholders, setting the recipients and employees pretexts. I would like to ask the following question: what big business will the workers share as if they were the ones taking the shares of large companies? It is a photographic layout for shareholders and senior executives of the companies. You are reducing the tax advance on more favourable criteria for large and powerful people. You are creating a repayable reduction, which in no way contributes to liquidity. The small and medium-sized enterprises this year will be invited to return them next year. Today it is imperative that the professionals, small and medium-sized, but even the workers and pensioners, be reduced by a generous scale by reducing the tax advance. We have also made a concrete proposal in our programme 'We are staying upright'. But you also had an election commitment, Minister. What you are doing and to which you are going, I believe that it will create greater problems for professionals, in mid- and small entrepreneurship. You say that you are bringing a more favourable car registration fee scheme to help renew the current car fleet with new environmentally friendly measures. That's not true. You do not give incentives to renew the middle category for the majority of consumers. You encourage greening, but for expensive vehicles. And with the chaos that you are causing on the market for used cars, I think you will bring exactly the opposite result, as regards the bet on the renewal of the car fleet in the country. And it is something that all the representatives of this sector have told us in committee in particular. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It's not enough you're not helping today, but you're preparing for the next day's strangulation. And I come to your infamous program, the "GEOFYRA" programme, where you are now forming a new framework for seizures of first home and not support for borrowers, as you support. Activate the new bankrupt by rehearsing a germanale. For every type of loan you grant for nine months, the borrower mortgages his principal residence, as this is the guarantee you request. Borrowers shall be required to pay for six to eighteen months, depending on the amount after the end of the nine-month period, to pay the amounts you set without criteria. The grant period is already very small and we have pointed it out to you. You also realise that after nine months it is unfair for all borrowers regardless of category to enter the same basket, not only themselves, but also their family and guarantors. But what you need to see is the unemployed person who has suffered wage cuts through half the work and half the wage that you have changed, but you need to see the professional, the businessman who is unfortunately falling apart. If some do not manage to give the full amount of the monthly dose to the time you set and for which you do not have any provision, retrospectively lower the programme. The public is demanding a 2% interest refund on the total amount of the subsidy. But most of all, you reach the most necessary measures to collect and seize the first residence. In fact, you are despairing borrowers, exercising more stringent subsidy measures - and I am sorry to say it - than the banks. We have tabled an amendment which really supports borrowers, protects first residence and can indeed be a solution. It cannot despair the debtors in this even more difficult period. We propose that the value of the property protected be increased, that the instalments of the debtors be linked to reasonable living costs and that the debtors of vulnerable groups and low incomes be supported. Another point to which you have to pay attention concerns the grant of TGVs to repay their overdue obligations. By this provision, you have been reducing resources since 2022 and after that, in an indirect way, you are adding resources to repay outstanding liabilities today, but what you are doing is to remove them from the future. You are also bringing the alternative taxation of foreign pensioners, giving criteria that you have not even calculated what they may entail in public revenue. I have asked you on several occasions, Minister, the question, three times at the committee meeting. You didn't answer me. I do not really know whether there is a plan and some prediction of what this legislation can actually bring about. I do not know whether the answer you are going to give me today will be the survey published by the 'Interregation' which calculates the annual share of GDP at 5 billion and 60 000 new jobs. I couldn't imagine that under any circumstances. I now come to the amendment you tabled. I think, Minister, that you are loading control mechanisms with fragmentary fines that are probably causing new problems rather than solving them. And to add that the quality of fines does not create more transparency in their extradition and collection, and I think you know that better than many here. In addition, the burden and complexity of the work already undertaken by the accountants cannot be linked to threats of fines to their customers, therefore, and to omissions of time. And they come to us all, we talk to the accountants every day, we understand right now what they're pulling. So you should look at this very seriously, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also noted it in committee, but I am coming back today. And I want to go back to these infamous financial instruments, the much advertised by many government ministers, which, you will allow me to say, have not reached the real economy. And they have also put your own Members in a difficult position, Minister. It is played - and I say it clearly - a great game with virtue criteria between government and banks. The main thing, then, is that they reach some money on the basis of rospheological criteria, on the basis of virtue criteria, the money doesn't go to those who need it, but to those who, as the bank managers tell us and tell them concerned, when they go to apply, say, 'do you have any means?' I told you in committee, and I repeat it. Excel with the requests of financial instruments has it and you have brought economic inequality and irregular intervention to banks to manage guaranteed loans to businesses. I have a suggestion here, too. Since the Greek State guarantees these amounts, since the government has often, through your ministers, urged the banks to speed up the procedures, I would again like to call on you today to publish the figures of the funds and of the firms which have received aid, so that the Parliament can know, the productive fabric of the country, on what criteria in this difficult period, has been saved, as you say. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are legislating on entrepreneurship without small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Legislation on tourism, without taking into account workers, hotel owners, focus, the real conditions and the needs of the health crisis in our country. You have lifted the flag of development and huge investments and brought anti-development multi-projects without any cohesion. You have lifted the flag of excellence and dignity and transparency, but you have appointed yourself to the whole blue perfection of known, friends and relatives. But we must be honest in this Chamber. Carbon the treasure. This title suits you, and it suits you, for the whole of your policy and, of course, for the bill we are discussing today. It is a bill of photographic and client service, strangling small and medium-sized incomes, a bill, ladies and gentlemen, with the old-fashioned classic right-hand cutting features. But you are also a government that is afraid. You know now that honeymoon is over. The arrogance and the lies are over. You must look at reality in the face, behind the protective shell of your virtual reality. Life, everyday life, politics, strategy, struggle to solve the problems of this place begins beyond this shell. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we want to welcome you in fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u57	The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement Mr. Dimitris Konstantopoulos. Please close the system for the electronic recording of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position with the historic decision of the European Union of 21 July. This is the largest financial package in the history of the European Union, a financial package that fuels the community, I would say the common market, with EUR 1,85 trillion. In order for the Member States to be able to face a global crisis, as well as the COVID -19 pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say very importantly that it is the total national benefit, which will be around EUR 72 billion. Of these, EUR 32 billion from the Recovery Fund, of which EUR 19.5 billion are grants and EUR 12.5 billion are loans, as well as EUR 40 billion from the European budget, from the ESDP and the CFP. It is important that, after a decade, I would say a hard Europe of numbers and not of the peoples that this decision reveals that the foundations of the Union still stand. As Mr Costas Scandalidis said, this historic decision is a European conquest with common heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement of 21 July I would say that it is the result of a horrific journey and is an important success for our country in the climate of crisis and pandemic, a horrific journey beginning in 2008, with the emergence of the economic crisis, which passes through our country's dramatic budgetary adventure and the 2012-2015 division, to end up in the current context of solidarity. In these years, ladies and gentlemen, I feel the duty to mention once again the presence of the democratic party of PASOK, which was crushed, defending Greece and the Greeks, in order not to go bankrupt, when the other parties were found - nothing apart, I would say - in the Constitution, as an anti-immemorial voices, denounced the party and the party, which proposed the interests of the country and not of course party benefits. Do not forget in the course that all these anti-immemorial voices came on the road of realism, on the road that the government of 2009-2011 drew, the government of Giorgos Papandreou. They walked the same way that this government carved, notwithstanding what they said in the Constitution. Let me remind you of the different circumstances - and indeed, I said all this so that we do not forget - which the PASOK government had to face in 2009, huge deficits, Europe in the role of an observer and our country's opposition to support an antimonetary, I would say, for the first time. Today, things are completely different. The government has received surpluses, due to the unfair physical overtaxation of the citizens imposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, but in any case there are surpluses. Today, Europe is inclined to help the Member States, in the midst of the pandemic, and Opposition is upholding its institutional position, of course, by putting national interests first, as the moments demand. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, how the government manages today's reality, how it will make use of the good conditions that exist and what it does for the real support of many, for the support of businesses, professionals, farmers, employees, the unemployed, the young generation, who, with the Brain drain of four hundred and fifty thousand young children, have left the country. It is this generation of Brain Drain that will come back - and this must be our goal - that will change the country. What is it doing to solve chronic problems that afflict citizens? What's he doing for the households? What does he do for the economically weaker? What does he do for a modern tax system that will restore injustices? I return, ladies and gentlemen, to the recent decision of the European Union and stress that we, the Change Movement, the PASOK, with this experience, consider it a historic step forward in Europe and can continue at national level through real consultation and dialogue between political and social forces. A consultation, Mr Ministers, which should reflect on why the country needs a Pissaridis committee to draw up a development plan for the Greek economy. Does the political system have to redefine its relationship with the social partners, the Economic and Social Committee, the social representatives and, of course, the social representatives and, in turn, the redefinition of their internal relations? It is therefore a consultation that will concern us, why the absorption of the ESRB was only 25% last year. This is where the SYRIZA - ANEL government will have to answer. That means we are in danger of making money back, right now that the country needs investment. Finally, why, ladies and gentlemen, did it take a pandemic to move the state towards digital integration? What was it? What did he need? Did the pandemic finally have to come to modernise the state? Ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to this with a sense of anxiety, so that we do not lose another chance, that is, we do not lose the train in the face of the fourth industrial revolution. Because in recent months the government has given examples not of good legislation. The answer can be a coronary, crisis, pandemic. I say this because there is insufficient consultation, ladies and gentlemen. We don't see a dialogue. Do we see incomplete legislative committees, many bills with many provisions, many different issues, bills that speak of an institutional section and simple structure of the state and which, ultimately, constantly what they do? They self-determine and continuously come new provisions to correct old ones. Today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, is no exception. It is a slogan of provisions to resolve various issues of the Ministry of Finance, and this in ninety-five articles. You were talking, Mr Ministers, about justice and development policy, and today, I would say that the natural persons have been left to their fate. The contribution of solidarity and the end of trade continue to be a loop on the people's neck. At the same time, high tax rates and increased advances remain. You were talking, Minister, about attracting foreign capital, and today, with Article 1 of the bill, from attracting large investors, I would also say incomes with Law 466/2020, we are going to attract pensioners. And when I say big-time retired, I mean northern countries. You call on them, as a government, to bring their tax base to Greece, with an incentive to tax to 7% on their income total. And while I would say that this regulation has a reasonable basis, it is provocative for Greek pensioners and a benefit to our country is not, of course, a great one. Ladies and gentlemen, the articles are much and the time is short. I shall refer to the main points that have been raised to us in particular. With regard to Article 3, for the favorable tax treatment of bonuses to business executives, I would say that it is, Minister - and I would like to draw your attention - for a provocative exemption for very few privileged workers and shareholders. This is because, firstly, there is neither a quantitative nor a time limit for providing in kind. Secondly, the income from the sale of these shares is taxed as income from goodwill, with a low rate of 15%. Here there is the oxymomile and the following contradiction between privileged and non-preferential: In the same article, Minister, the exemption from income tax for domestic tourism is specifically provided for the 2020 fiscal year. In other words, free of charge, the EUR 300 for social tourism, but without a limit of money and duration, the 'participating bonus' for the big business strains. What do you say here, Minister? I am waiting here for your answer. As regards Article 8, in order to suspend the trade fee for farmers for the tax year 2019, it is a positive provision. The trade end, however, is still a moratorium, which must be abolished. Take a seat. I come to the Committee on External Tax Dispute Settlement, Article 16. It was mentioned in the committee responsible and Mr Scandalides. Mr Minister, we believe that this provision can be an island of interlocutory concern. It is not possible to provide for the placement of retired judges without conditions. We tell you: make assignments to serve her. It is not possible for all members of the Committee to be appointed by a decision of the Minister of Finance, without a transparent and standardised system of selection criteria and procedures. I come to Article 18, for the reduction of an income tax advance for the tax year 2019. Legislation on the reduction of the tax advance for legal persons or legal entities or natural persons engaged in business, naturally depending on the reduction of the turnover. So what are you doing? You put, I'd say, the tick test. We have also asked the committee to do so, and we have asked for it from the beginning of Lockdown. Because Lockdown was universal in our country and, given that the European Commission justifies expenditure and therefore there is no public cost, we have proposed a horizontal reduction to 100% for all affected enterprises and 50% for the rest. Minister, do the thing. With regard to the articles incorporating European directives, it is technically and virtually impossible to check in depth in the way you bring them. I should also like to say that some of the provisions come for incorporation late. Let's go to Article 66 for the successors of the competition on the Legal Board of the State. Let me remind you that, just in March, the painting was extended to 12-4-2021. As a surprise, with this draft law, you change this provision, you change the provision that has been made in the consultation. In contrast to the standard administrative practice for extinction of the successful table, you set out that this table expires on 30 September 2020. Minister, this choice is inconsistent with the principle of good legislation, the principle of the protection of the trust of the governor, the principles that must govern the administration. There are successful ones who expect to be appointed and will be able to meet the direct needs of the public, of course serving the public interest. You should see the order again and restore any injustice to the successful ones. I go to Articles 71 to 83 concerning the "GEOFYRA" programme for the public's contribution to the repayment of loans with collateralists in the main residence for creditors affected by the pandemic. Minister, while in theory it may be positive - but as a thought - we see that the provisions do not exclude unjustified categories of borrowers, such as firefighting loans, such as the long-term unemployed who have not received any financial aid. What do you say? They also set time limits and are not linked to the suspension of auctions, as should be the case. Mr Ministers, the framework you bring does not cover those who are not aware of their loans, which you leave to their fate. And how can they be aware of what the economic crisis and the coronary pandemic have done? What will happen, Minister, with those who cannot be subjected to it, and in the crisis, both economic and pandemic? What do you say? What provision do you have for those who will risk losing their homes? These provisions had to be consulted, which was not done, and they had to be studied in depth. Furthermore, it does not seem, I would say, to use the Lending Information and Support Offices. Finally, for Article 90 on the regulation of debts to ecclesiastical legal entities governed by public law your provision, gentlemen, is very general. It gives a wide range of possibilities to each ecclesiastical legal person governed by public law to regulate debts of any unconditional and unconditional debtor. We told you in committee too. We know that the problem began with a specific case. Bring the appropriate regulation to discuss it, and not an vague and general regulation, such as today. Ladies and gentlemen, in completing my position, I would like to refer to the amendment we have tabled to restore the protection of first residence and, in particular, the principal residence of the highly indebted natural persons and to improve the process of regulating their loans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We propose, ladies and gentlemen, the reintroduction of the protection of the principal residence of L.3869/2010 with the possibility of using the public contribution, Article 76 of Law 4605/2019, so as to improve the ability to repay the debtor. In this protective arrangement, we also incorporate rural real estate. We believe that it is an amendment - lifesaving for many of our fellow citizens and we invite you to accept it. However, we would like your position on our amendment. Minister, the moments our country is experiencing are critical. This is no time for celebrations by anyone. Estimates show that we are awaiting an unthinkable deficit. The deficit of nearly 6.5 billion announced for the first half of 2020 is typical. What's waiting for us for the second semester! What matters and should concern us is how the budget deficit and budgetary gap will be covered from 2021 onwards. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In two minutes' time, Mr. President. I'm on my way to market bracelets. Who's the armor of the market? It's the checks. In the cheques, the granting of seventy-five days, ladies and gentlemen, of a registration to TIERISIA as of 1 June 2020 only applies to the requirements of tourism, that is to say, hotels, tourist offices, agencies and seasonal stores. They were excluded, Mr Minister, from the tertiary sector, which is considered seasonal, including trade. And that's what you need to regulate. But other sectors that have been deeply affected by the pandemic and the economic crisis have also been left to their luck. There is no provision for their checks from 1 June onwards. I would say, in fact, that healthy businesses are at the door of "TIRESIA". What do you say? We're waiting for your answer. In conclusion, Mr President-in-Office, we expect your answers to the issues we have raised, to our proposals and to our points. I should like to refer to the amendments in my second reading. In conclusion, we will listen to you and decide at the end of the debate on the draft law, both at the outset and on the articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u59	The reason is now the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The bill under discussion is entitled "Forensic interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy". Once again, however, any interventions do not concern the large mass of workers, the self-employed, the farmers and the people's families as a whole, of which none of the burdens you have borne on them, and of course the previous government, are actually deducted. On the other hand, the development process, as you are planning it, presupposes the greatest humiliation of all of this, so that investors, business groups, all those to whom it will be directed, as well as any financial instruments and aid for the unfamiliar Recovery Fund. You use, on the contrary, fig sheet a few semimeters that, at best, are postponed for a period of time and do not face the deadlocks of overcompensation and unemployable income for workers and people's strata that remain unprotected in the new round of the crisis. We also heard the committees, as today, saying that the bill responds to the real needs of society. And are we asking you, in response to the need for society, is the suspension for a year only for farmers of the end of the trade? As if you are doing them an unacceptable work, rather than permanently abolishing it, for them and for the self-employed, in particular, of low incomes who have been paying this unacceptable tax for years. Is the need for society to reduce, rather than completely abolishing tax advances for the self-employed, an unacceptable measure that requires them to pay in advance for incomes they have not done, when it is uncertain today whether they can continue their economic activity next year. "To burn you, my Yannis, to lure you oil," says the proverb and it fits perfectly in this case. In other words, this measure is not a serious concession, as it is expected that the revenues in 2020 will be greatly reduced compared with 2019. It goes without saying, therefore, that a reduced tax will also come about. So to stop playing with the deadlines, and above all with the real needs of your society, we call on you to accept and vote for the two amendments tabled by the JRC and which you all have to support, and the New Democracy and the KINAL which imposed these unacceptable burdens on the people with the Memorandums and the SYRIZA gentlemen who went to tear the Memorandums, but rather these were made of indelible materials and instead of tear them down, they have created a third Memorandum that unites you all. You should therefore vote on the amendments tabled by the JRC, which we call for the abolition of these exceptional measures - as you said at the time - commemorative measures. To abolish, in other words, the Solidarity Contribution and the Trade Fee for those who have an annual taxable income of up to EUR 30,000 and to abolish HPAI in the first and second housing, which meets the needs of housing and recreation of the people's family and is not leased. We are proposing to you that you increase the taxation of large companies, as well as the taxation of the real estate of these businesses and the large real estate. This is the real equal burden-sharing. Equal burden-sharing is not the social company that you are seeking, for example, to cultivate by regulations such as the one under Article 2 for exempting the share tax granted as bonuses to workers who catch the company's objectives. In other words, at the time when wages and rights are being smuggled, the worker becomes too flexible to catch up with the company's goals, to dismantle the profits of businessmen, instead of claiming to increase his wages, to restore all the rights that you have beaten them. Of course, even in this case, you also see the same exemption for shareholders and partners who receive bonuses from these shares. In other words, it is not enough to be a friendly contribution to the tax burdens that you have provided with only 5% of the tax on distributed profits, and now you are also making provision for part of this tax-free profit. The bill and other provisions illustrate your perception of converting the country into a tax haven not only for local entrepreneurs, who have been doing so for years, but also for foreign capital and investors. This principle is made with the incentives given to pensioners abroad who are able to transfer their incomes to the country by providing for only 7% tax on their incomes every year, a regulation which is really a challenge for pensioners in the country who have actually worked together with the employees and self-employed. Of course, more outcry literally, provocative metro is this article 10 that passed into foam from all the other parties with which you anticipate another tax-free for shipowners. In this way, do you really mean the equal distribution of tax burdens? You are once again abolishing customs duties on excise duty and on excise duties for all kinds of goods intended to supply their ships. In fact, a New Democracy MEP has provoked to defend this regulation by saying that the abolition of indirect taxes strengthens the economy. Really? Then why don't you go ahead with the abolition of indirect taxes on other large-scale people's consumption of large masses? Why don't you remove VAT on wide popular consumption? Why don't you vote for the reduced VAT rates on the islands? Why don't you finally abolish HISPIA and the other carpets that are the most unfair tax? So which economy do you stand for? To whom do you direct all the facilities? But what is really the climax of the debauchery in this bill is the multi-advertised "GEYRA" project, which the government presents as an alleged saving board to regulate debts to banks. To whom do you truly throw the board of salvation? To highly indebted people's families, the self-employed who have actually left to their fate in spite of the final blow that took over the limitation period, have they not received any substantial support? So it's not the salvation board to all of them. It is, once again, up to the banks, to ensure that the loans which, in the case of the large share of workers, would be clearly collected would be very questionable to pay them back. This regulation does not even provide a solution to the deadlocks of overcompensation, much more does not provide the slightest guarantee for the future of the protection of the first home, which you have left to the predators of banks and funds. To see, in particular, this regulation on the bridge measure, what do you ensure with the nine-month public contribution to the loan instalments? You ensure that for this period banks will be able to collect from the public funds which would at least be dubious, if not impossible to collect, with the rapid manifestation of the consequences of the new crisis. Do you, at the same time, ensure that the debtors are discharged from even this share of their debts? Not because, in the course of the programme, it delays payment or is unable to respond to the balance of payments - not only for nine months, but also for eighteen other months in the so-called'monitoring period' - then you will ask them to return the entire amount that they had paid up until then, with interest from 2% to 5%. This is the infamous relief of borrowers. On the contrary, banks do not have the slightest mess, since the payment from the State is made in return, and then, at this stage, they can also undisturbed proceed to confiscations and auctions when no other protection has provided for the people's housing. Secondly, does all borrowers include protection as you claim? Oh, no. Firstly, as we told you in the committees, the programme takes on applications up to 30 September 2020. What will happen from there on, with those, for example, who will be fired in the next few months or others, who will find themselves in a weakness when the consequences of the crisis begin to emerge in October? What protection is there for all of these, or for others not directly affected by the pandemic on the basis of the criteria you set? And all in all, what measures to protect the people's housing will there be after the nine-month programme that you present as the magic recipe that will supposedly heal the orchestra of the crisis? And indeed, we invite you to stop causing the popular feeling with this unexplained confrontation that has evolved, all the previous days, between New Democracy and SYRIZA for who left the first residence more unprotected. If for something no one blames you, it's for lack of continuity between you and me. It is known that SYRIZA laid the foundations for you to build now on these bridges for the definitive lifting of the protection of the first home. This is really the 'GREATYRA' programme. It's the bridge that leads very quickly to getting out of the hammer, massively, the homes of the world. If you really want to facilitate the repayment of the loans to accept the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC, which provides that for families with an annual income of up to EUR 40,000, increased by EUR 5,000 for each child, all interest and amounts arising from the disruption and capitalisation of interest may be deducted, which actually lead the debtors to pay side and triple the loans they have received. Delete from the amount of capital due corresponding to 50% of these, since the amount of loans does not exceed EUR 200,000 for housing loans, EUR 30,000 for consumer credit cards, EUR 20,000 for credit cards. Similar facilities should also be provided for the professional loans of the ESI and the farmers with a reduction of up to 30%, since they still maintain their business and 50% for those who have been forced by the consequences of the crisis to close their businesses, for loans that do not exceed EUR 300,000, and of course under the relevant income criteria. And for all the unemployed who are really unable to pay any dose to suspend the payment as long as the crisis lasts. This proposal, of course, was tabled in 2015 on the SYRIZA government. And then they did not show the sensitivity that they are asking the New Democracy Government to show hypocritically. Instead of introducing measures which are essentially a new state aid to the banks, which will ensure that part of the loans are paid, you will delete the part of these debts which workers and self-employed are unable to pay, delete the interest and imbalances, so that all governments can actually resurrect them for a decade. Let the banks and major business groups pay this account. They've paid enough. The employees, the self-employed, the retired people raised the burdens of the previous crisis. To delete interest and surcharges from public debts of up to EUR 20,000 and part of these debts for low incomes and for unemployed people. It is the overcompensation created by the taxation of all previous years. To delete interest and surcharges from the payable individual contributions of self-employed persons, which, because of them, many of them are still unable to retire. With our proposal for a law, we still have the possibility to the municipalities, both by decision of the municipal council and the municipal water and irrigation companies, to delete in whole or in part debts to the most deprived, disabled, multiples, single parents, long-term unemployed and other cases with proven financial weakness. There are also a number of other measures of this kind which are being imposed, due to the extensive economic weaknesses that exist and are constantly deteriorating. These are the real needs of society. This relief needs a people's family from the burdens that you all loaded together, New Democracy, PASOK, KINAL and SYRIZA, and not the crumbs that you offer from the great gravy that you offer to business groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I do not have time to comment on it in detail, but the questions we have repeatedly asked you, Mr Minister, in the committees, about your unjust and indiscriminate decision to proceed, essentially, with the implied dismissal of the successes of the Legal Council of State, when with the elements that have sufficiently developed you and their representatives, it appears that there are already vacant posts, whether from pensions or on the basis of the needs of the staff of the Offices of EFKA, which have already been posted on the website of the Legal Council of State, while new posts are created in this draft law on key public administration committees. Such a surprise change so far followed by a tactic to exhaust the successful table, leaves you multiplely exposed and creates many questions about what your goals are and why in such a way you punish these people who have after many years managed to achieve a demanding scientific contest. We call on you to correct injustice to all those scientists who are rightly fighting and who are once again appalled, a decision that runs counter to your previous decision to extend the table until April 2021. In conclusion, we urge you to adopt again the amendments and the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC. They are proposals that people's homes really need in order to alleviate from the burdens that have been borne by the policies that you have taken over the past few years. We are not going to vote on the bill, which in reality leaves it uncovered and does not help it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The special speaker of the Greek Solution, Vassilis Viliardos, is now called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we are curious how long the government will hide its huge failures in the economy - already in 2019 - behind COVID -19, noting that all the economic indicators in the country are in a free fall, from the twin budget deficits and the collapse of exports until the debt twin, public and red private. In this respect, the era after September provides for a nightmare for the majority of the already impoverished Greeks, without any overcompensation. With regard to KINAL - PASOK - unfortunately, they are missing - it is good to try to wash off through the stagnant failures and the cystability of SYRIZA, but it is not going to succeed. Such actions, such as the condemnation of the country to the IMF and the signature of the PSI plus the third memorandum, are never unleashed. As we mentioned in committee, such accounting bills are the least that Greece needs, since the change in our economic model has so far been urgent as ever, so that our country will cease to depend on the monoculture of tourism. We urgently need support for our primary sector, manufacturing and industry, particularly defence, and perhaps the COVID crisis -19, if it is treated as an opportunity and not as a problem, as is more rational, can easily support such an effort, especially because the European Union is more willing to take measures that have previously banned them completely, simply trying to keep Greece as a German debt colony, as all governments have unfortunately become after 2009 and not as a national sovereign country with the same rights as the other member countries. We have again stressed that we consider the submission of parallel bills rather than an interim temporary budget, as the government is obliged to do, let alone when Germany has done so, even though it is in an infinitely better economic situation than Greece. Of course, when the Minister of Finance launches measures to support workers and businessmen who finance them with the NSRF, by obliging companies to masturbate them - as we will testify for the Practicals - no one can be optimistic, which also applies to the Public Investment Programme, which is not used while supporting national contractors, such as the project of the electrical interconnection of Crete with Attica with the national funds of the Programme. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the bill is concerned, it is another with diffuse provisions of much that have been submitted in recent years by almost all the ministries. So we assume that this is a more general draft of the government aimed at disorientating the Greeks in the sense that it is pretending to produce work and simply empty paper designs. Continuing to the contents of the bill, the main of its scattered provisions are the following: Firstly, in the first part of the so-called development measures, including favourable tax arrangements for funds acquired abroad, for car donations, as well as for parental benefits, which can hardly be considered to be related to the development that Greece really needs. Shortly below, in Chapter III of Part Two, a directive on the transfer of headquarters to the European Union is adopted, and there are also favourable arrangements for the taxation of shares' gains, which seemed to us to be a comedy, given the sad situation of listed companies and our Stock Exchange, the only one on the planet. Secondly, a reduction in the advance payment of EUR 1,9 billion in Article 18, as well as a suspension of the trade fee in the primary sector, for which there is no estimate. In any case, these are positive measures that we hope will be allowed by the budget. While, with TEPIX and the banks in a disgraceful state, the only solution is to reduce taxes, but which will later be called upon by the Greeks to return them. Thirdly, arrangements for the out-of-court resolution of pending cases before the tax disputes courts on intra-military pricing matters, which is very important, while there are some similar arrangements at European level, with the application of Community directives to the second part, as well as the exchange of information and VAT issues in the second part of Chapter IV. Fourthly, arrangements for the Legal Council of the State, as well as the usual recruitments, which do not fit into a truly liberal government at all. Reconversions and transfers, of course, to the Ministry of Finance, costing 1,2m euros. Fifthly, the repayment of dues from OTAs, local government agencies, but with the confiscation of future budget payments to them from 2022 onwards, where there is obviously a great deal of growth that will allow them, ironically, of course. Sixth, the State guarantee for the loans of the European Investment Bank, where the Minister did not give us a reply on what exactly this amount is. Seventh, the planned "GEOFYRA" programme, where, in fact, it is another outrageous indirect support for banks with Article 79, which requires the debtor to serve the instalments of his loan to the bank for six, twelve and eighteen months after his nine-month government grant, without of course being able to predict what would have happened to him at the time. Obviously, the aim is to ensure banks for the time they cannot sell their red loans to investors because of the crisis, which means that there was not enough of the more than EUR 40 billion that they cost the citizens before. Nor will those that cost them in the future, such as the EUR 17 billion deferred taxes, the EUR 12 billion of the HARAKLIS project, when and whenever we see it, theft through the Hive Down, which will soon be followed. They want the banks to be even more, despite the fact that the commissions they charge are expensive, while their interest is twice as high as the European Union average. In any case, it seems that it will cover most of the law of Katseli as far as the value of the properties is concerned, of course, it is sufficient to implement, as far as the operation of the platform is concerned, the documents requested and so on. Unfortunately, as usual, it has not been quantified by the General Accounting Office of the State, which we consider to be very important, it has to be done and should have been produced. We asked for it. In some articles now, the following: In Article 1, an effort is made to convert Greece to a home in Europe, since it aims to attract foreign pensioners with favourable tax arrangements, when it considers that four hundred thousand homes can be created for tourism in the third age, according to the example of Spain and other countries. The Minister did not reply to us if a study has been carried out on whether 7% of the tax covers the increased costs that our country will have, nor whether it will apply only to pensions or to all incomes abroad, such as rents, dividends, etc., which would have to work or would have been agreed by the other States by transferring the tax base of their own citizens, since, as far as we know, the United States, IRS, do not agree. In Article 3, it is in theory a good practice for the provision of shares on a fee, as well as for its favourable taxation. The reality, however, is completely different. Among other things, with a devalued stock exchange, unreliable and unreliable experience, which will make these shares difficult to trade. If the regulation and non-listed companies, the valuation of which is based on estimates that are not easily verifiable, will cause many problems, as has been established even in the United States, while such practices have completely failed in India. Among other things, due to the fact that workers receive lower wages, while for three years they cannot sell the shares they are given, hoping to get rich later on with the rise in prices, which is happening in very few relatively small cases. Moreover, through the rights to buy shares, workers and businesses can legally escape, since capital gains are taxed at a rate of 5% in Greece, according to the recent tax law, while incomes and wages at a much higher rate. In Article 4 we have asked, without even getting an answer here, whether it is a gift to football teams and other groups and their owners, since the salaries of more than EUR 40,000 will be taxed at a rate of 22%, instead of 44% for everyone else. In Article 7 we asked not only for support for first residences but also for the start of a business activity. While it is more right to rely on entrepreneurship, instead of the real estate market, since this model has destroyed our economy. We should have learned a lot of our mistakes. Continuing, without mentioning the non-cost of several measures by the General Accounting Office of the State, as unfortunately is common to all bills, Article 17 makes it unacceptable to grant unlimited powers to the commander of the independent authority. For example, as regards the methodology of intra-military pricing. The question in terms of amounts being moved is very great and very dangerous. While in our country, apart from the multinationals, there are also large Greek companies that have unfortunately moved their homes abroad. We do not believe that the implementation of the OECD PEPS programme and the G20 group can solve the problem relating to tax havens and to the European Union's special regimes, such as the Netherlands, which is releasing everyone from tax. The Netherlands is the queen of legal tax evasion. Besides, even when cases are transmitted to Greece, like the Borgians list, nothing is happening at all. The second part, incorporating European Union directives, introduces a mechanism for resolving cross-border tax disputes within the Union. The question, however, is in the interests of which state will be resolved? What will happen, in other words, in the case of a German tax-free company in Greece through intra-military tariffs? For example, ‘FRAPORT’ operates through three listed public limited companies. With the ‘FRAPORT GREECE A’, which manages group A of the fourteen airports, namely Aktio, Chania, Kavala, Corfu, Kefalonia, Thessaloniki and Zakynthos, with the ‘FRAPORT GREECE B’ for Group B of airports, i.e. Kos, Mytilini, Mykonos, Rhodes, Samos, Santorini and Skiathos, as well as the ‘FRAPORT GREECE MANAGEMENT’, which manages central functions of the other two ‘FRAFORT GREECE A and B’. On the basis of their balance sheets, which we submitted in the minutes to the Committee, the average fees paid to the companies "FRAPORT GREECE A and B" on a 12-month basis for comparison were EUR 2.290 in 2017 without the employer's contributions, whereas to "FRAPORT MANAGEMENT" €4 800 from EUR 1 900 before. The following questions arise here: Firstly, why does the 'FRAPORT' operate with three companies? Maybe with the aim of avoiding tax? Secondly, what is the reason for the 'FRAPORT MANAGEMENT'? Why would he have 4,800 euros? And thirdly, how much was the profitability of the fourteen airports before when the total profits before taxes of Fraport's three companies were only EUR 13,3 million in 2017? How is the company in which the investments and upgrades are made with the money of the Yunker package that was for Greece, of course, while calling for an additional 175 million for Lockdown? The time now to resolve tax disputes in Articles 21 to 48 within the European Union is not at all small, so it is not in Greece's interest that it does not have its own companies abroad, but it is precisely the opposite. We would like to refer to Articles 58 and 59, but unfortunately there is not time. The amendments will be addressed in our second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u63	The special speaker of Mera25, Mr Arsenis, is now called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, it is important that in this Chamber, except when we are in this bucket, we suddenly use masks, because we take decisions in this Chamber that defines what other workers do, and I think we have an obligation to live in the same conditions. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, I will start again by the workers. Minister, you have received the requests of the successful ones in the two competitions and I have carried them over and over again in my speeches. Is it really something that requires your answer, how can it not extend the power of successful lists, even though experience tells us that they are expanding from three to six years? I refer to the corresponding 2013 competitions that were finally extended twice until 2016, 2016, which was extended until 2021 for six years and the military judges that were extended for three years. While a few months ago, and you were giving a corresponding extension until at least April 2021, you suddenly bring us an extension by September of the bill. It really creates a shadow, and it needs to be effectively answered from your side. We expect clearer and convincing answers, because we cannot create different situations between the same categories of workers. It is like having a personalised management of the successors for public positions, and that creates logic that has applied to the private sector, reasonable individual management of every person employed in the public sector, every success in the tenders. All the things that are being done for the recruits, as we have discussed with K3, how the recruits there did not have the same rights of permanentisation, they do not have the same rights to move within the public sector, for others it had to be for seven years, while for others the three years are valid, they gradually create the logic of individual contracts in the public sector, which, of course, does not work in the private sector now and in the public sector - and that is why we want a horizontal treatment of all successful tenders. It is shocking and all the debate about foreign pensioners who are motivated to come to Greece. They are really out of place and time, as for anyone who reads what is happening in Europe, the poorness of pensioners is horizontal, so these people no longer have the financial potential of this transition. For them to have the incentive, however, it must mean that the impoverishment of Greek pensioners is planned to be overthrown in the next few years, as in order for these people, who now have the incentive of their own pension to come to Greece to an average of EUR 1,000, will actually be the difference between the level of living of Greek and European pensioners. In Article 5, we have a customer voting arrangement with regard to the Monasteries of Mount Athos and other church property. With all due respect to these institutions it is purely voter. Close the eye toward the faithful when you make such arrangements. The percentage of the discount for all kinds of expenses regardless of whether they are linked to the exploitation of a particular property of their property amounts to 100%, which is quite different to the fact that it has been in force for years to date. In Article 9, we have something we have seen in the electricity bill, which starts with the logic that we do not allow cars to be imported for more than a decade, precisely in order to have a modernization of the fleet and have a less environmental impact. The logic is right. At the same time, however, when we are in a country that has an average car life for more than seventeen years, when we do not give any incentive and repeat to Mr Hatzidakis, who did not know it, that there is at least no car withdrawal at the moment for ordinary passenger cars, so we have no incentive to reduce our fellow citizens, who, because of the crisis, are unable to renew their car, to buy a more friendly environmentally friendly car, so we are cutting off the cheap imports that would enable these people to leave the car for twenty-five years and buy a ten-year-old car and eventually it seems to be a gift to importers of new cars. We also continue the presents in Article 10. Ms. Konnaka was mistaken, Mera25 from the very beginning denounced this article and drew the attention of colleagues to the House. It is a great gift to shipowners where more than food supplies, fuel and lubricants, which are now exempted from the duty, are now exempted from means of understanding between telecoms, machines and accessories of spare tools and related equipment, furniture, utensils, means of recreational crew and passengers other than gambling. Article 11, subjecting to the reduced rate of 6% of music books, is an article in which we stand positively. But it is something, Minister, which has been delayed first and is indeed a milestone. PART25 calls for all goods relating to education and culture to be included in this rate. We do not understand how you distinguish music books from all categories of education and culture. Why this distinction? We therefore call on you, if it is not just photographic, to extend it to the whole area of trade. As far as Article 18 is concerned, it is funny because it really concerns the advance payment of income tax. Merra25 was demanding over and over again, insisting on every bill of yours, Minister, and denounced the "elephant in the room", that is 100% advance income tax. And you some time ago brought the cut to 95% of the advance income tax, which is really challenging! At the moment you are proposing something completely misleading and inappropriate, the reduction of the advance in proportion to the reduction in the declared income in the first half of 2019 and 2020. What is needed at this particular juncture, where we are facing the relaunching or sinking of the economy, are essential measures to alleviate small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed. We really must now courageously abolish the advance tax. In Article 70, you, the Minister of Finance, will now also provide a guarantee for credit institutions, natural and legal persons of institutions, in the framework of Union legislation or transnational agreement, or between Member States and European Union agencies. Why this addition? Regardless of the feasibility, the bankers and the fewer people will be financed with the guarantee of the money of the Greek citizens, at the time when the burdens of the fifth Memorandum are being called upon to bear on their back, that is, what is now specified after your commitment to Eurogroup for primary surpluses in 2021. Articles 79-83. The articles describe the procedures of the so-called support programme by means of the public contribution to repayment of loans with collateral holders at the principal place of residence for borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the coronary, the ‘COVID -19’. We have repeatedly called on you to withdraw the "HRAKLI", this shocking invention for the irrational, out of the context and of any logic, the prerogative of these turbulent funds and their Greek shareholders. We also ask that it be announced so that we finally know who they are, because we believe that this list will be very interesting. So you support these funds with the citizens' homes that are in red or pink loans. You are currently giving them the right to sell these houses, if I am not mistaken at 1/3 of the objective value, to receive 12 billion Greek debt from your guarantees, more than you give the Greek economy to deal with the crisis and the coronary. These people, who will take 12 billion from the public, will also keep the residences of the citizens who will stay homeless in the middle of a coronary and probably in the middle of a lockdown. Crime, if you'll excuse me, is characteristic and starts with the name. You choose the name "HRAKLIS" by obviously linking it to the myth of Hercules and the "Korpos of Augia", considering these borrowers to be a man. That's shocking. Mer25 has proposed the project "PESSEAS", because the fight of these citizens is to finally reach their home, their home being their own. We propose that the establishment of a company "PESSEAS", a national private debt management company, where all red loans and property securities will be transferred, the return on public guarantee securities by the municipal authorities, the maintenance of the ownership of the borrower until the start of the normal repayment of the loans and after the haircuts agreed with the company "PTYSEAS". We also propose the setting-up of local committees in cooperation with PESUS, where all stakeholders will be involved in the crossing of cases of strategic malpractices. It is not a proposal which is made micro-politically and with the aim of voting. It is a proposal, Minister, which solves the question of banks, which, with the plan 'HRAKLIS' that you bring and the sluggish sale of homes, will be found by way of a radical reduction in the values of guarantees from the loans held in their hands and which is their capitalisation and will require new capitalisation, new loans. It will also provide a solution to the social issue that arises by bringing auctions and evictions in the midst of the worst economic crisis experienced by this country, but also in general strengthening the Greek economy and liquidity in the end. We have requested, in addition to abolishing the tax payment, the cancellation of the taxation of tourist enterprises which proved to have been affected or affected during the summer and spring of the mass cancellations in 2020, the reduction of 50% in VAT on the Aegean Islands and the border regions, with the exception of the islands of major objective values. What we say to you again and again is simple: what we learn from this epidemic, namely that prevention saves lives and that if we do not take prevention measures, then costs will be multiple, that is what we should do in the economy. In other words, let us make courageous measures now and the 12 billion will not go to the final fund for the project 'HERAKLIS', but to the real economy, to small and medium-sized enterprises with start-up capital and with substantial support, because otherwise the impact will be multiple. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you have already signed, and in fact agreed, the new Memorandum, and so you have no problem following the growing poverty of citizens, which, from September, October and the next spring, will be shocking. Soon we will be dealing with nothing but this terrible social phenomenon that comes swaying against us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the rapporteurs and the special speakers has been completed. At this point, I would like to make a programming of the debate. In view of the fact that parliamentary control is late and because of the fact that we have applications for the waiver of three colleagues, and the Prime Minister and Heads of the Parties will also speak, the debate will be held as follows: I will now give the floor to the President of the Communist Party of Greece Parliament and shortly thereafter to the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikora, to give some clarification. Here you go, Mr. President. We will then suspend the legislative work and discuss the waiver of immunity from Members. Immediately afterwards we will come back and see who heads will be and we will be on the list of speakers. The reason for this is the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here, Mr. Kutsuba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your policy is to strengthen the taxation of people's units and to extend the tax exemption to big capital. Of course you, Mr SYRIZA, who has now caught you, have reduced capital taxation, even by reducing taxes on distributed profits. We remind you, why you're doing what you've forgotten. And of course, now the New Democracy is coming to extend this strategy. We're making you a prediction. This policy will take off the next time in the context of and operation of the Recovery Fund decided at the recent summit, because the establishment of the Recovery Fund through this notorious 'joint lending' will be accompanied by uniform taxes for all the peoples of Europe. Whether it is a 'digital tax', a 'green tax', a 'covid tax', or, otherwise, the Brussels lighters call it, the substance remains the same, the transfer of the damage to the new crisis and its burdens on the backs of workers and people's strata. What other 'gifts' - within many introductory words the word 'gifts' - contains this famous package of the Recovery Fund? It includes the repayment by the people of the new loans of EUR 2.5 billion that come to be added to Greece's already superfluous lending and the demolition of any insurance rights left by promoting private insurance and the purely capitalisation system that converts supplementary pensions into an individual investment product, in accordance with the plan of the Pissaridis Committee, which will also form the basis of the Greek recovery plan. It also includes the extension of flexible labour relations and the financing of employers in the name of employment support, the provision of incentives to increase the size of certain viable enterprises, but also to increase the pressure and the packages for many small businesses and self-employed. It involves speeding up the elimination of lignite stations which increase unemployment, cancels the use of domestic energy sources and leads to a waste of energy by increasing the use of imported natural gas for electricity generation. All this adds to the heavy consequences of the capitalist crisis that the people are already paying for by the explosion of unemployment, the expansion of part-time employment, the reduction of wages, the intensification, the undermining of free time for workers with teleworking. No analysis or forecast - even yours - does not appreciate turning to the pre-crisis level within 2021. So stop enjoying the situation, celebrate, as your SYRIZA predecessors did every time they return from a summit. The present and the future for the Greek people, as for all the peoples of Europe, is specified black if they do not react, if they do not come to the fore, to determine developments themselves. All these zealous decisions at the summit are shielded by new uniform surveillance mechanisms, namely, with constant memorials, even if they are not typically called that. In addition to the European semesters, in addition to the Eurogroup's Memorandum of Understanding and Dose Approvals by Eurogroup, in addition to the Commission's supervision of the proper absorption of the ESDP, another mechanism will be added to the ongoing review of the Reform Programme, the restructuring that the Government will submit in October with the National Recovery Plan. He will decide whether to release or freeze the funds for the infamous subsidies. Of course, you do not expect the activation of the mechanism, since these restructuring is already on the agenda for domestic capital, BSE, bankers, and so on. However, this mechanism will once again be used as a bogeyman toward the people, in order to accept its new slaughter measures. It is therefore deeply disorientative, polluting, controversy that focuses on the amount of the fund or package in Greece, namely EUR 32 billion, EUR 19.5 billion in grants and EUR 12.5 billion in loans. The crucial thing is where these amounts will be directed, but also under conditions. The beneficiaries will again be the large groups, especially those active in the digital and green economy sector. Also, it is callal and the confrontation between north occult and southern galados. None of these two states camps care about the real interests of the peoples, not even of their own peoples, and those who had made their own flags the alliance of the countries of the South, such as SYRIZA, even having an unreasonable criticism of the decisions of the Session, are landed rather sharply today. We only need to see the statements by the governments of the countries of the South. Sanchez in Spain said attributes: "One of the most brilliant pages in European history has been written. It's a real Marshall plan. Today, all Europeans win and the European Union comes stronger." Conte in Italy said: 'The European Union has agreed on an ambitious Recovery Fund that will allow member countries to face the crisis from COVID -19'. Macron also said: "The agreement reached on the recovery plan is for the European Union at the most important moment following the creation of the euro". Here, the famous allies in the South! Some of them, of course, are in the same political family as you, SYRIZA's gentlemen, that is to say, the wider social-democratic family. What do they all say? They say what Mr Mitsotakis says in Greece. They celebrate, in other words, a mechanism which is yet another loop in the neck of the European peoples, who after the pandemic, following the tragic shortages in public health systems, after unemployment, are called upon to pay the brokens of another crisis. What does all this prove? They demonstrate what the JRC alone says and once again confirms that the European Union is a reactionary alliance, that these states do not share common interests but that, on the contrary, the gap between monopolies in Germany, France and Italy is growing, that the compromises between them are temporary, fragile, that they do not undo the great contradictions between them, but that the permanent victim of compromises is the workers, the peoples of Europe. That's what happened now. France has found the opportunity to press for joint lending of the European Union, Germany has adapted its position because a new shock in the cohesion of the euro area, the European Union, the single market and the euro would have a direct impact on its economic strength and on its exports, and the alliance of the greedy states has ensured a significant reduction in their contributions to the Union budget and the possibility of overhauling the Member States' disbursement procedures, when conditions and timetables are not met. Will this compromise last? It is highly dubious that Germany's strength to bear the main burden of the European Union's joint lending is not unlimited, on the other hand, it is not unlimited and the possibility of large-scale indebted states, such as Italy, for example, to raise the burden of new loans and the deterioration of conditions of competition within the Union. Countries where the main problem, namely the increase in the size of capital overcompensation, remains and large Community intervention can, in the best cases, postpone the event of a deeper new capitalist crisis in Europe over the next few years. However, the fact is that the European Union's decision to make a joint loan for the first time, in order to give subsidies to Member States, is a step in the direction of deepening integration. In any case, however, this is a process of reaction, because deepening unification in the European Union means strengthening the uniform mechanisms for the implementation of unified reactionary, anti-grassroots directions at the expense of peoples, of course. That is why workers not only cannot have any expectations, but it is necessary to find themselves in battle stations to counteract, conflict with this strategy of the European Union, capital and their governments, so that they do not experience the broken crisis again. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, beauty and disorientation, both by the government and by the other parties, is not exhausted in the decisions of the Session. It extends to other issues, such as foreign policy and recent developments in Greek-Turkish relations. All of you have placed the country's sovereign rights, the prospect of stability, peace in the region, NATO, the United States, the European Union, in the bazaars of the Greek-Turkey urban classes, in other words all those who have created the problems and have brought the region to the fore of a generalised ignition on the basis of the region's energy wealth, after you have handed over the country together for US bases and after you have spent 4 billion every year on military expenditure without the country's defence. And then you fight for other issues of secondary and trivial importance. We're telling you again: We don't trust you. We have no confidence in this policy, nor are we part of your Euro-Atlantic unity. In all we have confidence, it is in the capacity and the right of the people to guarantee borders, sovereign rights, to build relations of friendship, solidarity, peace with the other peoples who want to live in peace. The joint announcement by the Communist Party of Greece and the Communist Party of Turkey is an important contribution in this direction. I would invite you all to read it because of your friends, your colleagues and your families in Turkey - I mean the opposition - not one has spoken of all these issues in the right direction, in favour of the peoples. We firmly believe that all this can be done by peoples if they are rid of local and foreign power. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, the draft law confirms the class, anti-grassroots mark of your policy in the field of taxation. On the one hand, tax exemptions for shipowners, new tax exemptions for large capital in general, new tax exemptions for the economic parasites of society, the large shareholders of groups and for those who carry tax bases in Greece. At the same time as the Greek people are suffering from the new crisis, you are only seeing a temporary facility for this year that simply shifts the burdens for next year for some self-employed small entrepreneurs. Your policy is challenging, but even more provocative is the attempt to present the draft law as bringing tax exemptions for the people as a whole. And it is challenging because, at the same time as employees and self-employed micro-enterprises, they also pay direct and indirect taxes more than 90% of government revenues, and big capital pays less than 5%, you also bring new tax exemptions for shipowners, for large groups. It is challenging to add other tax exemptions, especially in the cruise sector. What does Article 10 prove in the draft law you bring? That the most infamous investments on the cruise will be completely tax-free and that the state corpse won't benefit at all. Equally challenging are the arrangements for the taxation of shares and movable property in general. What do you suggest? In simple terms, the shares of Greeks, residents abroad, are tax-free. You do have the courage to talk about ensuring the country's tax base in the same draft law. How can we guarantee where income is generated when dozens of large companies producing in Greece now have a tax seat abroad? Who do you think you can make fun of? Your aim is to turn Greece into a tax haven for a few, for big capital and domestic and international economic jets to the detriment of employees. You are mistakenly mistaken if you think you will make fun of the Greek people by reducing the advance you are promoting for self-employed micro-enterprises. You have taken credit from the self-employed and not only are you not returning all of them, but you are simply saying that the forced loan will be a little smaller this year. What exactly do you want? Shall we give you any congratulations? Besides, you're doing this almost compulsory. Real income this year is reduced by up to 50%, and an advance calculated on the basis of last year's incomes would have resulted in almost double the tax due next year. You are actually making the need for pragmatism because self-employed people are persecuted by the crisis and cannot cope with the state tax burden. In reality, you do not see any substantial tax relief for the workers - the people - who are in a bad situation because of your policy, the same policy as the previous government, and because of the crisis, while on the other hand, the "GEYRA" programme that you bring is nothing but a effort to finance the banks so that no new red loans are created. Your real goal is to enable banks to borrow from European markets and not to further alter their portfolio. That is why you do not hesitate to take up a piece of information for this year as a state. But your programme throws off hundreds of thousands of borrowers outside the criteria and aims, on the same line as all the previous PASOK, SYRIZA governments, mainly the "payout culture" to drain over the highly indebted public households with whatever they can pay back anyway to pave the way for mass auctions. From this point of view, it is extremely important that the proposal for a law tabled by the JRC's parliamentary group to relieve the people's families of excessive tax burden, insurance funds, OTAs and banks by providing for a drastic reduction in the debts of the people's families. These measures are urgently necessary, since the vast majority of people's households are literally drowning in debts, which cannot pay back, leading to hundreds of thousands of workers, self-employed, farmers, farmers, literally in despair, as well as the amendments tabled by the JRC in this bill to abolish HNV and the end of trade, two claims which we do not forget, as other parties have made in the past. Today, it is even more time-consuming, in order to provide substantial relief for workers, people's families, self-employed, in view of the enormous consequences they have to pay for as a result of the pandemic. Such amendments, such laws, such legislative proposals, all of you had to bring in here and all of you had to vote and not today's bill. For the Minutes, I should also like to present to you the proposal for a law of the JRC, which we had to discuss, because it really relieves the workers, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the farmers, the Greek people. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] But be sure that you will find us on the streets of the race, along with the Greek people, for the defence of their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u68	We are interrupting the agenda and entering the SPECIFIC ORGANIZATION Requests for waiver of immunity of Members of Parliament: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Irene Kasimatis, Dionysios Akipi and Theodorou Dritsa. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 23 July 2020, according to which the members of the Committee proposed, by a majority, that the immunity of Ms. Irene Kasimatis should be waived. The report of 15 May 2020 was announced by the Permanent Special Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed the waiver of Mr Dionysios Akuppi's immunity. Finally, the report of 15 July 2020 was announced by the Permanent Special Committee on Parliamentary Ethics, according to which the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Theodorou Dricas. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hands or by raising the request of the Prosecutor, in accordance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 108(1). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of 7 March 2018 of the Conference of Presidents, this procedure has triggered the new system of electronic roll-call voting. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said. The first case concerns my colleague Mrs Irene Kasimatis. It is true that your charges have been electronically communicated to you and, moreover, each colleague will also be mentioned on your screens. Mrs. Cassimatis, would she like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u69	Yes, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in the House of Greek Parliament the request made by the Vice-President of the Ice Region by which, and in accordance with Article 62 of the Constitution and Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House is asked to give its opinion on the granting or not of the authorisation for any criminal prosecution, following the submission of complaints against me by natural persons - police officers because of a political comment I made on a matter which I made on a matter which was unrelated to the police on a social basis, in the context of his political activity. Before I go any further, I would like the House to know and to record in the Minutes in plenary that the Ethics Committee which met on Tuesday 21 July and which consists of six members of the New Democracy and five members of each of the Anti-Population Party are today recommending the lifting of immunity not unanimously, but by a majority, and indeed, by a marginal majority, since even the New Democracy has voted against the lifting of immunity, but as you will find from the Minutes that have been distributed to you, regardless of the decision that was finally taken for other reasons, all my fellow Members have, in fact, recognised the controversial issue and the lack of anything on my part. I would therefore like to ask the House, through the President of the House, to forward it to the Scientific Council of Parliament together with the minutes and the case-file, so that the latter can give a ruling on the correct interpretation of Article 62 of the Constitution, as is the case after the revision of the Greek Revision House resolution of 25 November 2019. In particular, to rule on whether it is constitutionally permissible to waive the immunity of a Member for his further persecution due to a comment in the context of his political activity. It should be noted that this issue is extremely serious, cross-checked with the democratic principle, the principle of popular sovereignty, the parliamentary authority and the legal position of the Member of Parliament. Therefore, the crisis and the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on this issue is essential for the future, as there is a risk that an interpretation of Article 2 of the Constitution, which disregards the specific conditions set out in the new provision for the waiver of immunity of MPs or non-application, may be consolidated. In particular, while the new Rule 62 of the Constitution stipulates that the parliamentary immunity is not granted where the act is linked to the performance of the duties or to the political activity of the Member, the tendency to waive parliamentary immunity which is not submitted to Parliament by Article 61 of the Constitution is identified as not referring to tasks and thus to be treated indiscriminately and on an automated basis that the authorisation is given by the House in all cases where the offences alleged are not related to the hard core of the parliamentary duties. Under the above interpretation of Rule 62 of the Constitution, which tends to be consolidated in the House, the institutional guarantee of the democratic constitution for the non-violent Members is being circumvented, notwithstanding the special conditions laid down in the new Article 62 of the Constitution, that is to say, that the act is not linked to the performance of the duties or, in dividually, to the activity of the MP, to the political activity. The similar treatment of the applications for waiver of immunity submitted to the House under Rule 62 of the Constitution without further examining the contribution of the conditions of the association of the act to the exercise of the duties or the political activity of the Member is certainly not protective of the way the parliamentary culture operates and of the necessary and necessary freedom of the Member and should therefore employ Parliament in general, the House today, especially the Scientific Committee of Parliament. Because I claim that the actions that I am invoked fall under my political activity, as well as undercover some political feasibility, I would like to remind this House of a brief background, in order to demonstrate some things, and indeed, because those days have been a terrible political time both within the House, but also within the media and the social media, which have isolated my phrase and have isolated or disintegrated my first chance to make up for it. Well, on 10-12-2019 I made a comment on social media that was the cause of some police officers as natural persons to file on 9-32020 against me an indictment in which I am being indicted to commit the offences mentioned therein and to which I shall refer in detail below. My remarks were made on the post of another individual parliamentary editor who was engaging in a mistake in state television, in ERT. In particular, there was a marked news report by ERT, in which the New Democracy MP, Dora Bakoyannis, apparently inadvertently, was listed as an MEP. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u70	Please continue as long as you need.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u71	On top of photography, the parliamentary editor, Ms Mani, commented "How much did enlargement end up with you guys?", with me responding to the well-known "Enlargement smacks..." and the well-known slogan that I do not want to repeat here, although many did so, on the occasion of my own comment, from this step and accusing me. It was a political suspension with a strong humorous sense of scoring, as those days were in the news or at that time the processes in the opposition. And my comment was perplexed accordingly by this attitude. Unfortunately, as I admitted, I used the phrase in question as a rheumatism, ending in a similar way. In any case, however, the formation of this rheumatism is very common, without its use ever been criminalised or even implied, and without me introducing it into the public debate or making it normal. Here - and I would like to stress this - my comment had nothing to do with the body of the Greek Police. I did not comment on anything about the police news and, of course, I had no intention of insulting any worker in the Greek Police, about the fairness of the workers I am fighting for, and most of all, I did not intend to offend the natural persons who filed the indictment and who are completely unknown to me in name and in the face. In fact, the next day of the comment and when I received a letter from the Piraeus Police Officers' Association and POSY and I understood the extent of the misunderstanding and discontent that followed, I issued a statement explaining the circumstances and the nature of my comment and expressly deploring the use I made and the misinterpretation that followed. At the same time, I referred to my own parliamentary actions to defend the rights of police officers, as workers and, of course, to the exceptions to the jury. I came back with a second express apologies for the bad guys. However, the indictments - I mean the bad guys, particularly the pressure - were political, and I refer to them - almost three months after the event, at the end of the three-month deadline for the submission of the complaint, were indicted for the following offences: for Article 184, that is to say, the stimulation of an act of crime, violence or discord, for anti-racist law, for exaltation and for slandering defamation. I must say the following to those who are not lawyers. In order to categorise the objective nature of the offence referred to in Article 184 PK, the law requires the perpetrator to provoke or stimulate the committing of a crime or crime and thereby jeopardise public order. A burdensome occasion shall be considered, when the challenge of stirring a defect or a felony is directed against a group identified on the basis of race characteristics, colour, ethnic or ethnic origin, genealogical outcomes, religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender characteristics. My remark, which was not a neo-colonial one, but a common one, which unfortunately used this homogeneity and which was part of the general context of this posting and of this scepticism, which concerned a political process in the opposition party, is not objectively appropriate to cause hatred or stimulate acts of violence against anyone. In addition, the law is seen as targeting broader social groups on the basis of strictly limited criteria, including race, colour, ethnic or ethnic origin, genealogical outcomes, religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender characteristics, but not the profession. The objective of the offence in question is therefore not fulfilled. Furthermore, in order to quantify the objective nature of the offences referred to in Articles 1, 3 of the anti-racist law, the law requires the alleged perpetrator, public, orally, or through the press, via the Internet or in any other way to motivate, provoke, stimulate or encourage acts or actions that can discriminatory hatred or violence against a person or group of persons, identified by race, colour, religion, etc., but not the profession. Likewise, in the case of the offence referred to in Article 185 PK, my comment is not objectively appropriate to motivate, provoke, stimulate or promote acts of violence against anyone. Furthermore, here the law strictly defines and defines the criteria for targeting the wider social groups against which the act and occupation are not within them. The objective of the offence, for which I am being indicted and in the case-file, is not fulfilled, therefore, is an extension of the provision, which is unacceptable to criminal law. Subsequently, for the offence of slandering, the law on the haunting of the objective substance requires at least the dissemination of an event and, indeed, that this should be specific and objectively false and not, of course, the reproduction of a stage in the context above. Secondly, it requires a person at the expense of whom he specifically refers and not generally and abstractly. In my comment I did not share any facts that could harm the price or reputation of any particular person and, of course, this comment is not addressed to a certain person. Therefore, for the offense of slandering defamation the objective substance is not haunted. In relation to the offence of the exaltation of Article 361 PK, it must be made clear that even if there was a case of its being established, the conditions of Article 63 of Law 4689/2020 have already been omitted. As soon as the objective status of any of the offences invoked by me is not established, criminal investigation is not even progressing in examining the subjective substance of the above offences, i.e. fraud. In any case, however, I would like to point out that there was no delusion on my part, since in this case my comment is, on the one hand, a humouristic aspect, on the other hand, it was not about the Greek police, but it was a political fact of time. It follows from all the above that my indictment is total unfounded and was abused the day before the three-month period of the indictment expires, and at the time of submission of the appeal this matter was not even in time nor as a distant memory, and of course, the Piraeus Police Officers' Association and the PLO had invited me by means of a document to withdraw it and I had answered my apology with the same type. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On the basis of these facts and given that my indictment is manifestly unfounded in law and, in fact, the plenary is called upon to decide whether or not my parliamentary immunity and legal indictment are to be further assessed by criminal justice. My position is that, in view of Article 2 of the Constitution, as it stands after its review, parliamentary immunity should not be lifted, because my comment, which was the cause of the appeal, is in the context of my political activity, and therefore the appropriate Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics of the Greek Parliament, as I think it would have liked it to vote in favour of the waiver of immunity. On this critical constitutional and legal issue, I take the following. First of all, it is clear that the legal position of Members is determined by the privileges offered by the Constitution to them, which they enjoy, such as immunities. The provisions of Articles 61 and 62 of the Constitution, which are an extension of the principle of the freedom of a Member's term of office, shall establish the parliamentary immunity which refers, on the one hand, to the irresponsibleness of the Member in the performance of his parliamentary duties and, on the other, to the special protection of him during the parliamentary term only from the exercise of criminal proceedings for offences relating to his or her parliamentary or political activity. Divorcely, ladies and gentlemen, both irresponsible and irresponsible are institutional guarantees. That is to say, not in favour of the Member, as a person, such as the individual rights laid down in their respective bodies, but in order to ensure the proper functioning of the democratic culture through the unrestricted exercise of the duties and activities of the Member, as divisively, I repeat, they are referred to in Rule 62. The beginning of these immunities is in English, they are in both the French Enlightenment and the French Revolution and, of course, in our first constitutions, of course, they exist throughout the entire period. Furthermore, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, by which the case-file has been forwarded to the House, Parliament is required to refuse to grant permission to prosecute a criminal prosecution against a Member, where the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to its parliamentary duties or to political activity or finds that the prosecution conceals political feasibility, in accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The notion of political activity, ladies and gentlemen, is wider than that of the Member of Parliament. The legislator, in other words, realises that the primary role of the Member, as an expressor and a modulator of the public, is under the present conditions of policy not only within Parliament but also in other forums of political dialogue. Such forums of political dialogue are parties, trade unions and other political events, as well as the media. The forum for dialogue today, however, are social media, a phenomenon that is researched scientifically in the field of political science, communication policy, media sociology and, of course, at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, is being studied scientifically in the field of postgraduate program, "Policy and Internet". It is a common place now that all politicians, parties and leaders are internationally using social media in order to highlight their political messages, express an opinion on issues or comment on political topicality. This is because their political message will reach everyone directly, without the use of the wooden political speech and with the interference of any other third person.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u72	Please, finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u73	Therefore, this activity, within the meaning of Article 62 of the Constitution, falls under any act of the Member who is involved in political dialogue through the use of social media. One second, Mr President, I would like to conclude, despite the fact that there is a reaction, because you know that, because there are those limitations of time, we have to talk in other forums. But, of course, to me, there were infinite hours of television and parliamentary time spent in relation to the issue of bills, and that is why I have suffered an incredible murder of character and a disfellowshiped, anyway, use of the comment I have made, I would ask this House for its tolerance and I will be done in a very short time. Besides, the reason why...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u74	As, you know, the House is not a court.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u75	Yes, Mr President, I agree that it is not a court, but this House must know all aspects before it decides. This is not a matter for me personally because we will have a practice that we will have to ensure from now on. In this case, therefore, the question is whether the comment in question on Facebook, which I have raised from my parliamentary account, expressly stated next to my name, my parliamentary status, with a picture of me in plenary and the contact details of my office and the electronic address provided by the House, falls under the concept of political activity provided for by Rule 62 of the Constitution, in view of the grammar interpretation of the above provisions and, on the other hand, the historical and final approach of the institution of the Member's impunity. This is because, with the acceptance of the view that the concept of political activity must be interpreted closely, independence and free mandate are undoubted in this way, as not only will the Member not be unable to take a substantial part in the public debate, but will be potentially threatened by the Members of the majority in question and by the representatives of various bodies, failing to exercise his political activity and to raise issues of political topicality. In addition, the Member is displaced from the public debate and confined solely to the exercise of his parliamentary duties. This, however, ignores the present socio-political conditions, where the exercise of political activity and political dialogue are taking place not only within Parliament. I therefore consider my comment to be part of my political activity. Furthermore, I will not extend now, but you should be aware that, in accordance with decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the case law is consistent. It is consistent and says that the mission of the politician is to formulate strict criticism of issues of public interest, including negative comments with hostile time. And he considered in the Otegi Mondragon case v Spain that Spain has violated Article 10 of the Convention, as one year's imprisonment had been imposed on the applicant and parliamentary representative of the "Socialista Abertzale left" party for his comments with which he strongly criticised the King of Spain that he imposed the power of the monarch on the Basque people by torture and violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, it cannot speak for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u77	Please very much, Mrs. Cassimatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u78	Please, we cannot have the Presidency in the Council of Europe where we are talking about rights and at the time when I am talking about the Strasbourg decisions in relation to the Member's cover to be interrupted. Please. The court having noted that, in matters of public interest, excessiveity, the challenge is to some extent allowed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u79	For Christ's sake! You're talking sixteen minutes. There's no that thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u80	Please don't interrupt. There is the Bureau and it will decide. But please, Mrs. Cassimatis, if you go to court, then you'll tell them there. We don't have responsibility here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u81	Of course, but I would like to end, Mr President, because this is not a matter for me. It's about the whole House and the Constitution. It therefore considered that in this case the plaintiff, despite the fact that with his comments it could be considered insulting, was not equivalent to rhetorical hatred, nor did they support the use of force. Even if my comment were essential, which under no circumstances was Article 10 of the ECHR applicable and, of course, Article 60 of the Constitution. In conclusion - and I close - on the basis of all the analysis of the provisions in question and their subjection to the facts and articles of Constitution 60 and 62, I think that my comment was within political activity, that the protectionist content of Article 10 of the ECHR falls under these circumstances on the condition that violence is not caused and, of course, that the phrase is not objectively suitable to cause hatred or stimulate acts of violence against anyone. I would therefore like to say that my indictment is manifestly unfounded in law and, in fact, has been abusively abused. And it may not have been before the Public Prosecutor's Office, as it is expressly laid down in Rule 82 of the Rules of Procedure, as the non-control had...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u82	Mrs. Cassimatis, you've been talking for twenty minutes. And you're making repetitions. You say the same thing three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, in his speech to the House, the President of this House - and we have the Minutes of the waiver of immunity for the press - will be in place from now on. I'll go. We cannot go to review Article 62 to limit the impunity and go to the other end. And where the Prosecutor sent all the documents here without considering them - as the House has admitted - now send them back. And the Member must make himself a "black" object of criticism or an object of political stigmatisation because a political position has been expressed. I would therefore ask that these be taken into account. You should know - because I see there are reactions - that I myself am not afraid of the natural judge, if he exists, in the sense that there may be no indictment, but in any case. I am therefore prepared to waive my immunity. However, I do not think it is acceptable that this House should lift immunity as a Member for his comment in the context of his political activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u84	I would like to say this for my fellow Members. I understand, like all of you, that the issue of waiver of immunity is a delicate matter for each Member. But, in any case, time must be respected and the matter exhausted. Is there any colleague who is asking for the floor now, or at the end of all three immunitys, under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? There's no colleague. We shall now proceed to the second on Mr Dionyssis. Would you like, Mr. Apepi, to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u85	I, Mr President, shall ask for my immunity to be waived. However, it is worthy of wonder and raises questions, and I call on you personally and the members of the Ethics Committee from all sides, how this has come here without my name being mentioned anywhere and there is no charge against me. However, in order to end this case and finish it too, I call for my immunity to be lifted, so that we can finish this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u86	In your question, however, to the general interest, I say that it is neither the committee's nor the House's competence if it came. Good or bad is a different matter of law unfounded, as is the substance of the case. Now we're going to the third case of Mr. Theodorou Dritsa. Mr. Dritsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief. Both at the previous Session of Parliament and at the current Session, I participated on behalf of SYRIZA, among other colleagues, in the Revision Committee of the Constitution. And there, SYRIZA and I personally, like all my fellow Members, colleagues and comrades Members, defended the need to revise Rule 62 of the Constitution in order to eliminate any privileged treatment of Members for violations of the Criminal Code or conflicts with other citizens, since they do not fall within the narrow concept of 'political and parliamentary activity'. Because both Article 61 and the articles of the Constitution correctly stress that the Member is free and independent to express judgments and opinions. And alas, if any such activity is criminalised. It is precisely, therefore, by discussing and in particular at the second session, at the present majority meeting in New Democracy and the other parties - most - agreed and agreed on the need to revise Article 62, which was in a way and a popular demand. Of course - one can see in the Minutes - very often I and myself on the side of SYRIZA, but also from other parties, we have also identified the dangers of opening up a path for malicious choices of citizens or groups of citizens against MPs with undercover policies, but others too. This is indeed one of the bets of the recent revision of Rule 62 of the Constitution, which means that, from now on, the plenary of the House, but also the Ethics Committee, must examine very carefully everything, and possibly the judicial authorities, too. For example - I can assure you, because you can also see the minutes of the Ethics Committee's meeting - the case concerning the comrade Nina Kasimatis, who shortly before coming out of the Step is appropriate. The relevant unions, which denounced Ms. Kasimatis, when she accepted her explanation and apologies...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u88	Mrs Cassimatis spoke for twenty minutes about her waiver of immunity. Will you also speak, Mr. Dritsa, to waive Mrs. Kasimatti's immunity?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u89	Please! What do you want now? Do you have any work to do? Are you in a hurry?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Colleague, you won't judge that. You're very welcome. Carry on, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u91	I must say that the committee has spent too much time right. I am thinking here, Mr President, and not of Mrs Cassimatis personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u92	But that's how much he understands.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u93	Because, not a union, but some with a malicious attitude, obvious, serial and continuing, have appealed against Mrs Cassimatis. And it is no coincidence that the majority were marginal. A majority MEP voted against the lifting of immunity and other majority members who voted in favour stated that they were in dilemma. This is what I would like to stress, Mr President, that we have entered with the revision of Article 62 in another reality than we had up to now, when the previous provision of Article 62 of the Constitution gave the freedom to grant immunities approval. So, in my case - and I shall be brief, Mr President - I do not think, despite the fact that there is, but I cannot put it before this House, it is not possible for you, ladies and gentlemen, to go into the trouble of going back into the case-file, in the facts, in which people, in that way, in other words, in order to draw a conclusion, in fact, we do not consider the substance of the Rules of Procedure of this House and the Constitution. Consistent with my party's attitude and my own revision of Article 62 of the Constitution, I have asked the committee too, and I ask you, all of you, to lift my immunity and take the road to the judiciary. I now come to my seventy-three years, and for the first time in my life I also have the capacity to stand before a court, indicted in any event. What happened? On May 18, 2018, I went out of the Chamber and went to the Cup of the Parliament, in the middle of the Chamber, and was in front of a tension with the old colleague of the Piraeus Parliament, Ms. Theodora Megalonikouou and a young man, who I didn't know and I don't know him now, except from the data of the literary, who was in a controversy. I, because I know her from Piraeus, came and tried to reassure her, to calm her down, not to have any effect on her health as well. All I cared about was that. I have achieved this to a large extent, and in any case things have become worse. This young man says he's a journalist, a five-page manager. I won't make any more comments. The malicious insult and lack of respect I think it is obvious, but I will not make any comments. When I testified, because I was asked by Mrs. Big housekeeper, as a witness to a lawsuit and a lawsuit against her, I was only glad to present what I saw and what I heard, without adding or omiting anything. There's no perjury offence. I wouldn't go to testify after all if I had to testify, lie, lie. This, however, has been the reason for continuing the persecution and against me by a lawsuit, calling for EUR 60,000, and for a lawsuit, which is now under way. I'll defend myself. It's not a matter. No offense, no perjury. I have tabled what I have seen and what I have heard, without adding or concealing anything. And I said again that otherwise I wouldn't testify. I'm not hiding you that I feel blackmailed. However, I cannot - because I think there is a clear difference, which I mentioned with Mrs Kasimatis' previous issue, which we must support, because the political intention is clear and therefore the political dimension of Mrs Kasimatis' behaviour - and I must not, for my part, be dismantled from the consequences which I have assumed as a Member of Parliament and as a member of the SYRIZA and my party, which we have taken the lead in the revision of Article 62 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Otherwise, if we do so, we will be faced with the fundamental effort that we all have to make to strengthen the authority of parliamentary institutions and my dignity and political and parliamentary authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u94	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u95	But the bell I referred to and at the beginning there is. So also to the Bureau of Parliament, the President, to the Ethics Committee and to the House, I address a message that from now on we should forget the coordinate thoughts, as we had in the previous Constitution, because we are now entering a different period, which can actually lead to a deadlock if citizens take the initiative to constantly sue Members. And it will not be a party, it will be all parties. I do not propose, of course, and there is no way of revising Article 62 again - it is not possible - but every case must be examined very carefully and very seriously. Finally, I ask for my immunity to be waived for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u96	Is there a colleague who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u97	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u98	Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u99	I take the floor, Mr President, as a member of the Ethics Committee, because, in our opinion in today's sitting, some serious questions of interpretation are raised, that is to say, issues relating in itself to the waiver of immunity and I do not take the floor for the substance of the cases, especially in the case of Mrs Cassimat. And perhaps this is the first time, it is the first meeting after the Constitutional Review, which raises questions of interpretation under Article 62. The placement of Mrs. Cassimatis was unlucky, she was unfortunate. He himself explained the situations and circumstances under which he also took political responsibility for what he said. But here we are talking about something else. This is something else we're talking about. We are talking about a more general question of interpretation of Rule 62 or of interpretation rather than Article 62, which opens the way, in our view, the dangerous path to what is said or to what is supported by a Member of Parliament, not politically, as it should be judged, but criminally, and this is done with the tolerance and consent of Parliament. That's what's happening today. That is what we have said in the Ethics Committee. In fact, if immunity is lifted, there is a bad precedent that opens the way for a familial and persecution industry against Members of Parliament for any position or position they have supported at a certain time. So do you understand where the situation goes? We cannot legitimise such a practice, and we consider that to be the result of the unnecessary review of Rule 62, which has caused serious interpretative problems and are now taking advantage of these interpretative problems, so that the road opens up obstacles to the political activity of Members of Parliament. We said that then. We had said so in the constitutional review procedure, when all the others and SYRIZA - who are washing them now - agreed and voted together with New Democracy and the other parties to revise Article 62. We cannot legitimise this practice. We cannot give the green light of persecution against MPs for any position they support. In this respect, we do not agree with the lifting of immunity for Mrs Cassimat's case, which is of a more general interpretative significance. For the other two cases, we agree on the lifting of immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u100	Mr Gioka, what I'm going to say is that it's not about any case pending. Your opinions are respected. I have quite different views, but because I am chairing, I am not allowed by the Rules of Procedure to develop them here as well. I have developed them in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that the vote includes three different cases of the waiver of immunity from Members. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, press the arrow on the right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you've voted for all cases of waiver of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please address the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. Please, open up the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u101	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. Peace (Ninas) Kasimatis, Dionysios Akipi and Theodorou Dritsa. On the first case, Mrs Irene (Nina) Kasimatis voted for a total of 187 MPs. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 100 Members voted. Anti-immunition, i.e. 'NO', voted 81 MPs. 'PARON' have voted 6 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. A total of 184 Members voted on the second case, Mr Dionysios Akuppi. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 181 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. "PARON" voted for 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible. On the third case, Mr Theodorou Dricas voted for a total of 182 Members. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 175 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 7 Members voted against. No one voted. This request of the public prosecutor is therefore also admissible. The results of the roll-call vote are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u103	At the end of the vote, ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the debate of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Forensic interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2020/866, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, a public contribution for the repayment of loans for affected borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVID -19 and other provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u104	Having returned to the agenda of the Treasury bill, I call on Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me begin by saying that your decision to impose the use of the mask and within Parliament is medically correct and symbolically imperative. As you know, we are in the management phase of what some people might call in Europe the second wave of pandemic - here it has not yet made its appearance, the cases remain in very low numbers - but I would like to say once again from the Step of Parliament that it is absolutely essential to keep the advice of doctors and to wear our mask where experts have indicated that the use of the mask is mandatory. It is a small, uncomfortable practice at first, but a practice that should be done, as we now have enough medical data, which tell us that universal use of a mask prevents the spread of the coronary. We also have an obligation here in Parliament to set a good example. Of course, there may also be one step in the right direction, namely that the use of the mask restricts the holidays to speakers, which I think may be welcome for the general order of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the bill under discussion, and I begin by greeting its order, which is not directly linked to its main content. It is, however, a debt of honor to our Armed Forces, towards a whole generation of Hellenism and a bloody, but heroic page of our recent history. Forty-six years since the invasion of Cyprus, the Greek state awards a lifelong pension to men who defended freedom in the front line. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We owed it to national conscience and historical memory and we did so. Ladies and gentlemen, it is today my first presence in the House, following the historic decision by Brussels on the establishment of the European Recovery Fund, the reaction to the consequences of the coronary and its response to those who rushed early, as it appeared, to question its power to overcome disputes and ultimately serve common supranational demands. The outcome of this four-day summit had an undeniable winner. The united and solidarity of Europe! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because, despite the noise, the intense negotiations, the objections which have been made, not even a minute, and no one has called into question the substance of the fund. In other words, the issue of a common debt, in which members contribute over time, depending on their capacity, is directly allocated, as required. And the Recovery Fund is not just Europe's response to a virus that cost more than 100 thousand of our fellow citizens and has, of course, plunged Europe into the deepest economic recession in its history. It also marks the fall of a political taboo, which was to strengthen European states from a capital formed at supranational level by mutual guarantees. In this respect, yes, the agreement of 21 July is a historic moment for the development and deepening of the European Union. And it is no accident, therefore, that these days and other parliaments - the Spanish for example, have a debate today on the very same subject - are discussing this huge step. A financing of EUR 750 billion in the Member States. Greece is one of the winning countries of the agreement, as the net inputs it will receive are the highest in the Eurozone as a percentage of GDP and one of the largest in total in the European Union. If we add the funds in the multiannual financial framework, this is translated into a total of 72 billion, 32 from the newly created fund and about 40 from the European Union budget, primarily directed at the Common Agricultural Policy and the Cohesion Fund. Of these first 32 billion, 19 eventually will represent direct subsidies and 13 more favourable loans. I want to remind the National Representation that we have been from the first, from the protagonists in this effort. I personally signed a letter with eight more Heads of State and Government, which we had sent to President Michelle last March, asking him precisely then to take this bold step. And if we turn the clock of time back a little - and I would like to address those who, I would like to believe, have criticised the scope of European intervention four months ago, the step taken by the European family would have fantasied to many as a science fiction scenario. But ten days ago we ended up with exhaustive consultations in Brussels's success. I believe that we, too, have put our own bit, not only in order to safeguard the interests of the country, but in order to fight for the need for Europe to take this bold step as a whole. The objectives we had set in the first place as a country have been met in full. Who were they? Firstly, the fund budget has a very important fire force. Secondly, the mixture of capital granted should be of a nature more subsidies and less loans. Thirdly and very importantly, Europe must move quickly towards decision-making that will speed up the disbursement of funds by the beginning of 2021. I would remind you that we can use the fund's tools to cover expenditure that has also been incurred in 2020 and to extend the duration of the fund to three years, to make commitments, and to another three, to make disbursements. And fourthly, and very importantly, the allocation of these funds is not accompanied by additional anti-developmental, budgetary constraints. There is obviously no supplementary memorandum on the disbursement of these funds. The conditions are the same for all twenty-seven Member States of the European Union. We are now faced with a truly great national challenge. And that is no other than a different concept in how we manage these funds. The challenge is not to absorb these funds to provide only temporary relief. The crucial bet is that these resources should be directed properly, in actions with a substantial, developmental, multiplier effect. The bet is by the right measure, the right reason, at the right time and in the right way to transform what we called the 'Next Generation EU' into 'Next Generation Hellas', to convert the crisis as a new starting point for the country's overall direction and economy into an environment that will inspire and exploit all creative forces in our country, first of all, by offering security, good jobs, hospitable everyday life and social cohesion. In this context, we are working - I believe for the first time since post-polluterism and then on this extent and at this depth - a coherent national strategic plan for the optimal production and leverage of all available funds. The targeting and allocation of resources will not be done this time as usual, i.e. by uncomplicated procedures, delays in planning and absorption, a variety of customer interests that clearly introduce for resources in low added value programmes or projects. The government plan will be based on the proposals and strategic directions of the Pissaridis Committee, which incorporates all modern global trends and has made an accurate diagnosis of both the time-consuming distortions of our economy and its significant comparative advantages. In the next two months there will be an intensive consultation, both at government level, but also at Parliament's level and at the level of discussion with the social partners, so that we can reach as wide a consensus as possible, so that we can have a coherent national proposal, which we will submit for approval to the European Commission in October. I would remind you that the timetable set by the European Commission is sufficiently suffocating. By 15 October, the countries must have submitted their national plans, which will then be approved by the European Commission, so that we can lead to the disbursement of the first resources in 2021, within the first half of 2021. It is therefore a moment, Mr President, of maximum national responsibility. The government majority and the government will do everything they can, in order to get through a rapid consultation phase, to listen to the parties' views, to formulate, as I have said, a national coherent plan, which I do not have the requirement, obviously, of finding all parties in opposition. In any case, however, a debate will also take place within Parliament before the national plan is tabled, so that the House and the opposition parties can express their views, their views or possibly their objections. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago from the very same position I was talking about the first bill of our Government, which was fulfilling a basic commitment from us, then, an election commitment, the reduction of the ENPI as a measure of tax relief and a development perspective. Twelve months later, I am here again for another bill from the Ministry of Finance, the first bill from the Ministry of the second year of our term of office, but which has the same aim: to combine tax justice with the very necessary economic situation in the country. To date, a debate in both the committee and in the House at the level of rapporteurs has been detailed. I will make a very brief summary, stressing a few articles, some provisions of the bill that I consider to be extremely critical. The first package of interventions in the bill relates to tax incentives. A favourable scheme for foreign pensioners is being introduced in order to transfer their tax base to Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From now on, their income from abroad will be borne by all sources with a tax of only 7%, making Greece much more attractive and public revenues much larger. In other words, we are aligning ourselves with other European countries. Perhaps the best example is Portugal, which has used similar tools to attract European pensioners, who, in the extension of such a measure, have rushed to buy permanent residence in the European South and spend an important part of their time, not necessarily in their summers, but very often in their winter in the Mediterranean. We want to do something like that in Greece too. And I believe that this measure, following on from the intervention we have made for 'Non-Dom', which concerns far more wealthy people who will choose Greece as their tax office, will have a very important development mark. At the same time, I would like to point out that we abolish the autonomous taxation of 10% on parental benefits and donations, we reduce the I.C. classification fees, hybrids, electricals, so that the fleet is renewed and the shares that are paid free of charge by the employer are now taxed as an additional fee, thus encouraging participatory entrepreneurship. I would like to focus particularly on this provision, which is very important to the startups community, which is largely based on the logic of workers' participation in the company's share structure precisely with such tax incentives. It is an important provision which the Ministry of Finance introduces in response - as a government - to a permanent demand from the community of newly created entrepreneurship in our country, which, despite the great difficulties - has recently been aroused. Of course, Vouchers of domestic tourism are excluded from the income of a company. The second wave of arrangements strengthens the policies of shielding the incomes of households and businesses tested by the coronary, with a lever to reduce taxes, which stimulates liquidity. This is how the relief is implemented up to the nullification of the tax advance for 2019, as we were committed to doing as a government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is a good measure, which also meets the universal support of counter-population, which is quite obvious in such a difficult year, where companies are faced with much lower turbulence and obviously with the prospect of having no profitability within 2020. And, of course, farmers who count five years of VAT are exempted from the trade charge, as are the coastal fishermen of small business vessels. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The excess VAT rate is finally passed on to music books - an unfinished past one which is corrected - to the reduced 13% of racing tickets, while, as transport is affected, the types of equipment and supply are exempted from tariffs. The third set of measures is faced with a time-consuming wound, tax differences. The draft law incorporates at its core important European directives on disputes at Community level, including our country into a common European framework to tackle tax evasion, and a committee on extrajudicial settlement is also set up for disputes pending before administrative justice. It is something that stimulates legal certainty, dismantles the courts and increases public revenues. Finally - will the Minister speak much more in detail on this issue - innovation of the bill is the new loan support mechanism for borrowers, the 'GEOFYRA' project, which, with the decisive public participation, will grant for nine months housing and business loans guaranteeing first residence. I shall confine myself to saying a word on this issue, because I imagine that several speakers will come back during the debate. The protection of the first residence of the SYRIZA Law had expired since February 2019. Since then, thousands of cases began to be accumulated in the courts, which often exploited conscious malicious payers, while both extensions achieved by the new government eventually had reduced participation. Applications for membership in the favourable context established by the previous government, which we supported, have only reached five thousand! The protection of the first residence, as established by the first government, has therefore failed in practice. On the other hand, it is interesting to see that in the last 12 months direct arrangements between banks and borrowers have been very encouraged and more than two hundred thousand loans amounting to 13 billion - most of them housing - have been arranged directly between the bank and the borrower. The "GEOFYRA" programme aims at restoring a definitive framework for the protection of the main residence, even by significantly increasing the number of beneficiaries, because the borrowers of the old arrangements are now added to a new category: workers or professionals from affected branches and new problematic loans. The regulation also applies to all loans, both red and service-based. The Minister will also return to his place in more detail. Ladies and gentlemen, today's initiatives come at a very difficult time. They are, however, only a link to a large chain of interventions in the economy. With the system of repayable advances, up to 40 thousand businesses have been strengthened by up to 1,8 billion. The Entrepreneurship Fund has disbursed loans of 1.3 billion to nine thousand four hundred sixty-four companies. The Guarantee Fund has allocated 1 billion to a thousand eight hundred and twenty-nine enterprises, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. In July alone nearly EUR 3 billion were disbursed. I must tell you that it is of great interest to see the distribution of the companies that received a repayable advance per DU. This analysis will be made public by the government. Benefits are business across the country. In particular, in the most affected tourist areas, you will find that the number of enterprises which have benefited is considerably increased. For the first time in the government he managed and supported real liquidity from small and medium-sized enterprises, which the truth is that they had difficulty accessing bank lending. It is a successful programme that will continue and, if there is a need, and we will judge this with the Ministry, there is always the possibility of further expansion. Furthermore, the 25% offsetting of VAT with future obligations relieved more than a hundred sixty thousand businesses. It relieved them of the immediate need to pay an amount of more than 150 million, while the suspension of loan instalments gave rise to two hundred and eighty-four thousand businesses and households. All this was decided to have a substantial effect and not easy impressions. As I have said many times before, our programming is in full progress, always keeping reserves for every unforeseeable. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with an important communication, which I could have started, because it is linked to a recent development and concerns every pensioner. From this step, therefore, I say today that the government will pay up a single, fully-fledged, and all pensioners in the country in 2020 the retroactive sums that are entitled to the decision of the Council of State. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] The government is in line with judicial decisions, as we were committed to doing. We are talking about a sum of EUR 1.4 billion involving basic pensions - I stress - of the private sector, but also a right that extends to public pensioners. Overall, the beneficiaries will be a little more than two and a half million retired fellow citizens. It is a move that the government is sincerely and respectfully addressing the partisans of work, who we know very well that at this difficult time their children and their grandchildren are being called upon to support. With the same dreadfulness, however, and the same courage that the government will disburse this sum only before the end of the year, I have to say that this expenditure reaches the limits of the country's budgetary possibilities. There is therefore no room for further requests of this kind. The truth is, our pensioners were not hit as much as other charges from the pandemic. They were fully protected and the state must keep fiscal balances, obviously also consider the sustainability of the debt, but also keep reserves at any difficult time. There may be objections, auctions, incentives to increase this amount to cover gifts, supplementary pensions. However, I would like to address the pensioners here and tell them that aid with a single sum of EUR 1.4 billion is a political option, and I would like this decision to be assessed, taking into account the overall situation in which the country is situated. There is no room for other benefits and anything else would be unfair to the unemployed and the workers whose work finances the insurance system. It would be unfair for the next generations and for the whole society, which faces unity, unity and successfully - I dare say - so many parallel challenges, from events in Evros and pandemic to the international economic turmoil and aggressive behaviour of our neighbours, because the worthy of the Armed Forces must keep it high, but we must also finance it, especially in periods such as those we are going through. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So my choice, Mr President, will be optimistic. Despite the difficulties, despite the many obstacles, Greece continues to walk on the path of progress at all levels. We have proved this every day for a year, because we have a united society, a state that is constantly modernising for the citizens, a government that knows and can, working with a plan and bringing results. This result also serves today's bill, which I invite you to vote on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u106	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, will then be called upon to step up the process. Let me inform you that the composition of the Conference of Presidents has been notified that the sitting is being postponed at 3 p.m. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the image of the Greek economy is extremely worrying. I think it is worth it from here that the Step does not make an effort to make the situation look good. Obviously the pandemic has caused consequences throughout the world, not only in Greece, but in Europe and everywhere, which have hit the economies of all countries extremely well. But two elements cannot be overlooked. Firstly, the Greek economy is on a downward path almost twelve months now - certainly from September 2019 onwards - and the impact of Lockdown in Greece will be from what seems to be extremely strong, disproportionate to all the original forecasts. We delivered a year ago an economy of twelve consecutive quarters of development. Each quarter from the first of 2016 to the second quarter of 2019, the country's Gross Domestic Product grew. The Government of New Democracy managed, before the pandemic crisis met the country, in the fourth quarter of 2019 to achieve the worst economic performance throughout the European Union. You have said a great deal of talk in electoral terms in favour of the middle-class and small- and medium-sized enterprise, but in practice you have only worked in favour of specific interests, which have nothing to do with the interests of the middle-class and small- and medium-sized enterprise. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we have said nothing different from what has been done and proposed international organisations and institutions, in good time, forward measures to curb the crisis, unemployment, which, despite the fact that it has been drastically down in the past five years, has remained before the coronary extremely high and, of course, measures to curb the krone that come into thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. That was the point of the programme, of the proposal that we tabled to the Greek society, but obviously also of the government. However, once again, I believe that you have dealt with this crisis in the wrong way. And I say 'for once', because unfortunately you did not learn from the debt crisis that found the country in 2010. At a time when workers and the market are asking for practical support from the state, you have moved slowly and insufficiently, obviously having the assessment that boor is and will pass, with the assessment that this year can find us with a very great recession, but in 2021 it will be a very strong year. That is what you said here too, Mr Mitsotakis, and you, Mr Stakoura, have repeatedly said in your interviews and in your positions. Unfortunately, however, no provision of an international organization tells us today that the recovery we will have next year will be enough to cover the recession that we will have this year. On Sunday we read with interest the interview of the Director of the International Monetary Fund in the newspaper 'Kathemerini'. He was talking about a recession estimate close to 12% for 2020 and a recovery estimate of 5% in 2021 and more in 2022. In short, if these forecasts are verified, that means that even at the end of 2022, that is, in two and a half years from now, we will have recovered the lost territory of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone sees these forecasts with great concern. I see that, on the Prime Minister's side, once again, it is unsatisfactory. All over Europe there are predictions of pitifulness. There's no doubt about it. For Greece, however, they are the worst. But, throughout Europe, everyone sees these forecasts and plans in the long term. They are trying to examine all possible, negative scenarios, because these are what one needs to do. And, of course, no one has any delusion that, even if science does its miracle and we have a vaccine in the next few months, it will mean that, automatically, from the next day, economies start from where they stopped in March 2020. All over Europe, therefore, they plan on the basis of adverse scenarios. What exactly have you done here? That's the question. You suffocate the evil not to mention and spoil this account of the "historic success" that you are trying to cultivate and you are trying to inflame in Greek society as well. The worst thing, however, is that you are facing the crisis that has already occurred, has fallen into our heads, the middle class, the workers, mainly, of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, as a self-esteeming prophecy. You didn't take brave forward steps in the first phase of the pandemic and you don't have a plan, beyond the patches, for the next phase after the lockdown. And when the recession is over at the end of the year, the unthinkable levels of forecasts will be touched when jobs are lost, when the rainstorms fall and the budget holes open up after each other, what are you going to do? You will come to tell the Greek people: "Get ready for a few more years of austerity. It is not our fault, it is the pandemic." But it's not like that. They are stunning the margins, but there is still room for a more effective response to the economic consequences of this crisis. But you have already begun to lay the ground for this attitude, to tell us that it is not your fault, but unfortunately, because of the pandemic, we will enter a new cycle of austerity. And I say that you are turning the ground, because we are listening, we are reading you - and I have listened with caution here, of course - to say that it was a political choice to give retrospectives to pensioners. It wasn't a political choice. It was your obligation. It was a decision of the Council of State. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It was your obligation, as we did. We have respected justice decisions on special wages. It was your obligation. But I have heard you not to put a perfect hand in the applause you have received when you announced that you will give, as you are due, the retrospectives for cuts which the Minister himself had made during the memorandum period. This is the irony of luck! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you didn't put a perfect one there. I do not know what all you said later mean by addressing the pensioners that 'as far as you are concerned, do not want any more presents, do not ask us to see what happens with the subsidiary, do not ask for any more' - what are these 'others'? - because society is in need. He obviously has needs. And the country's Armed Forces. Obviously. You said that we have reached budgetary limits and budgetary margins. So let us see a substantial debate about what these budgetary limits and budgetary margins are. If I am not mistaken, since 2020, the country has been governed by the status of the escape clause, i.e. there is neither a Stability Pact nor a fiscal objective, on the basis of the agreement we have made on debt and primary surpluses. Isn't that right? But why am I particularly concerned when I hear you say that it is a political choice to have your retrospective obligation and then add a series of hints that make us understand that something you are preparing? Because they have already begun to see the light of the publicity of some of the forecasts - we obviously do not have the whole - even this is an issue that will follow my speech - the infamous report by the Pissaridis Group, on which - as you have just said - your Government will base itself on the plan that will be submitted by mid-October to the European Union in order to obtain the disbursements from the Recovery Fund. We expect to see what this will be, what exactly the report will be and what this plan will be. However, what the light of publicity sees is directions that are in disparity with what you had previously said. And all this while we are facing a deep crisis, and while the European Union has taken steps forward, not perhaps what we would like to see. Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to ask you at this point to bring this Pissaridis report to publicity in good time and to put your own proposals on development plan for public debate and consultation in public. I would like to remind you that in April 2018, for the first time, we submitted to the institutions - the institutions still at that time, because we had not come out of the Memorandum - but before we testified to the institutions, we put into public debate and presented to the Greek society this holistic development plan, the so-called 'growth plan'. So you must also bring the Pissaridis report directly to the public, and your forecasts, and of course not only in public dialogue and consultation, but also in a substantial debate here in Parliament, in order to place all the parties, all the political forces, as you realise that the life expectancy of this plan is not just about the institutional time of your government, it goes beyond it. It's for the next six years. But let me make two comments in relation to Europe, in other words, the results of the summit. You are all aware that we welcomed the European Commission's proposal last May, with regard to the Recovery Fund for the 750 billion to deal with the financial implications of the pandemic. We welcomed it because, for the first time, it includes a type of debt sharing - the European Union is borrowing and not the Member States - because the debt is paid off mainly by new European budgetary sources, because this proposal originally provided for 500 billion to be granted as grants and because the methodology for the allocation of these funds significantly strengthened the countries of the south, which have to face the greatest economic challenges following our pandemic and, of course, our country. I have to say - despite the fact that what you said is right, that six months ago this conclusion would seem to be unrealistic - that the outcome of the summit in relation to the Commission's original proposal is a lot of steps back. Firstly, the change in the ratio between grants and lending to the detriment of grants is a negative news and shows the inability of the collective leadership of the European Union to realize the criticality of moments and the danger of Europe driving a new debt crisis, with incalculable consequences not only for social cohesion, but also for the cohesion of the Eurozone again, because you realise that another thing is having a debt crisis of 1.5% of European GDP and another country such as Italy, which is in the G7. Secondly, the acceptance by the European Council of the positions of the rich North countries, both for the reduction of subsidies, but also for the right to brakes in their disbursement, if tough terms and conditions are not met, do not leave us, I would say, a great deal of room for celebration, but we are given a deep consideration, regardless of whether these rights will ultimately be exercised. And I think that this is also confirmed by the strong criticism that the European Parliament has finally made in this agreement. On all these critical issues, there is no doubt that you would obviously support the country's positions. But we have not heard you raise your voice all this time. Okay, it was your right to follow any negotiating strategy you wanted. But we have heard you at the end of the session calling this compromise fair and reasonable, a compromise which, in relation to the original proposal, removes EUR 110 billion of grants and sets stricter disbursement conditions. And the question that we have asked you again, Mr Mitsotakis, is this: Is it fair and reasonable for whom, after all, is it? For us, for losing, or for the northers, where did they win? We honestly didn't understand exactly what you wanted to say that night. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And after the heavy celebrations about the supposedly 70 billion you won...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u108	Seventy-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u109	Yeah, 72. Yes, sir. However, by putting on the account and funds that we would have taken anyway. Every seven years we get. They are the funds of the multiannual financial framework. Then, of these heavy celebrations, the publications of international analysts and institutes, which speak of an agreement that is ultimately beneficial to the strong and unfavourable in relation to the original proposal - not overall - the Commission for weak countries and especially for Greece. The publication of the Bringel Institute, which I imagine will be in your knowledge and has seen the light of publicity in republications and in several media in the country, has relevant tables, which show that this agreement will eventually leave Greece with 7 billion less in grants than in the original proposal of the Commission. If this is the case, it is an amount corresponding to almost 4% of the Greek Gross Domestic Product. I'm filing the board. You've seen him, I imagine. It shows that from 23.21 billion will probably go to 16.69 billion and not to 19 billion euros of grants. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above table, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] But I think it's not just there. Because the crucial thing, in my view, is to see from now on, not whether it will be 16,69 or 19 billion dollars of grants. The crucial thing is to see two things. Firstly, if the country is currently able to absorb this money over the next period, that is to say, if there is the possibility and mechanisms of absorbing a second ESDP, let us say that. It won't be exactly the whole, an 80% to 70%. The second, which is perhaps even more critical, is related to what I said before. If, in order to be clear about the context in which it is being set, we will proceed by ourselves to what comes out of the public eye that the Pissaridis report provides for the privatisation of the second pillar of the insurance system and the restructuring of the labour market, which, in my opinion, will also create a new vicious circle of austerity but also enormous social tension, because they will break through once again, in a society which has been hurt over the last ten years, social cohesion. We will, however, have the opportunity to discuss this in detail, Prime Minister. But the crucial thing, with which I wish to close my remark on this, is that we must not overlook that the change in the correlation between grants and loans, at the same time that we will have a recession that is close to 12% of GDP this year, with no chance of a rapid recovery, will again create unfavourable conditions in the debt-government relationship. Our debt at the end of the year will probably exceed 200% of GDP, with what this may mean for the risk of a revival of the debt crisis. So, to be clear, I should firstly - and I told you a moment ago - that you should immediately table your plan and the Pissaridis report, but also your own positions, what you are adopting and what you are not, in order to have a real dialogue, put the political parties in place. The second is that, in our view, Greece today needs a bold strategic plan, progressively to bring the economy up after the pandemic - we have called it a 'new social contract' - which will include development prospects focusing on green growth and the digital transition of the economy, the development of important sectors of the economy, such as the agri-food sector and processing, the treatment of inequalities and precariousness that are becoming increasingly widespread and, of course, a strong and effective social state. Let us not forget the lessons of the EHS pandemic. Greece needs a plan that will give hope and perspective to the next generations that it will not pass what the previous generations have passed. Unfortunately, I do not see any intention on your part to move in such a direction, but here we will be talking. Let me now turn to the issue of first residence, because all right, it is clear that this bill also brings positive measures. We were asking for a reduction in the tax rate to 50% on a permanent basis, not for the coronary crisis on an exceptional basis. It was also our election commitment last year. You chose to distribute otherwise the financial reserves we had at the time. You obviously realized that it is incomprehensible to ask a businessman to give you 100% of last year's income, which may have fallen by 80%. But I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the question of the protection of first residence is extremely critical. In 2015, the Government of SYRIZA formed an integrated strategy for managing and addressing the private debt issue, non-performing loans. This strategy was multifaceted, set specific targets and milestones and sent a message of seriousness and determination both within and outside the country. Thus, during the period 2015-2019 there has been significant progress in reforming the relevant legislation, thus creating a substantial and expanded arsenal to address the problem. At the same time, and despite the fact that much of these reforms took place under close surveillance and budgetary discipline, the framework established included a multitude of favourable arrangements for workers and professionals, small businesses, for economically weak people. For example, debts to public and public sector bodies have been increased and red tape has been expanded, as has been said, by Katselis - Stathakis. The main residence protection law was created, Law 4605/2019. All natural persons, as well as entrepreneurial loans, had the first place of residence. Indeed, it did not pay as much as we would like this platform. However, this is due to the fact that since you took over, you have not taken care to solve any bureaucratic problem of what was present throughout the whole operation of this platform. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have also created the extrajudicial mechanism to regulate debts, bankruptcy law has been considerably modernised, the code of conduct of banks has been reformed in contrast - look out! - with your own position on the subject. And I am referring to the amnesty you have tabled with amendment to the pandemic period for bank officials, which has, of course, resulted in a fiasco, as the provisions are already unconstitutional by the courts. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] A special private debt management secretariat was also set up, a framework of public debt regulation, social security institutions, municipalities, with multi-annual instalments and important incentives and benefits. These were our own interventions. Have they solved the problem definitively? No, but they have significantly improved the situation, resulting, on the one hand, in the de-escalation of non-performing loans, on the other hand, in the facilitation of a significant proportion of overdue persons, households and professionals. So the question is what you have done for a year. You have announced a new bankruptcy framework, which, from what we hear and see, if what we hear and what is written is expected to be the final tombstone for protecting the first house. However, you have not yet brought it to date and, while you have not brought it, we are presented with a 'GEOFYRA' project, but avoiding to tell us what to link this 'GEOFYRA' will be, what will be the next day to protect the first residence. To tell things by their name. The regulation you are bringing up today is not a protection framework. On 31 July, in a few days from today, protection ends. The vast majority of debtors will not cross over the "bridge", under the "bridge" will pass! Because what you are bringing is a subsidy programme, without debt regulation, a subsidy programme for a few months and a few debtors, who, as he says, have been affected by pandemic and financial consequences. The whole of Greece has been hurt. But it won't be all of Greece. They'll be few for only nine months. It is a programme that not only makes use of, but also does not combine with existing tools. On the contrary, it requires the relinquishment of the debtor from these tools. I, therefore, am fully aware of what I say, and I say to you that what you are bringing today is a well-conscious plan, to allow it to end a framework of protection of the main residence that has provided debt regulation and dose subsidy and to open the way to a nightmare for society with a view to thousands of first home auctions. What we - even though we had memos, even though we had the lenders on our head - managed to prevent it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So, noting that we are at a time when we are going back into a deep recession, realizing that we are at a time when unemployment will once again begin to rise up, realizing that the average income of the middle family is falling again and that, possibly, difficult days are coming from September and then, we are calling on you to revise these thoughts, these plans, these intentions. I am well aware that there is a requirement on the part of creditors that we move forward immediately. But we're not in a memorial anymore. The country has regained credibility. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We're out of hard surveillance. We both have the stature and the moral right to protect, especially the period of crisis after the pandemic, the weak and the first residence. So we are tabling an amendment today to prevent this appalling prospect of thousands of auctions, with a proposal that I believe could work as a real bridge, a new framework that will effectively and comprehensively address the problem and give solutions and relief to the tested households and professionals. Because our bridge is on the existing law on the protection of first homes, it is, however, considerably expanding its scope, in order to respond to the current difficult suffocation of thousands of borrowers, precisely because the economic situation is deteriorating and social insecurity is expanding. It is a framework that will be extended by the end of 2020 and will include an increased state subsidy for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups. The main points of our proposal are as follows: Firstly, we have covered loans that were redundant up to 9 June 2020, and until 31/12-2018 were the current framework, that is, loans that were redundant due to the consequences of the pandemic. We broaden the perimeter of what is covered, increasing the protection limits on business loans. We identify an automated dosing calculation procedure taking into account debtors' living needs. We calculate these minimum living costs at a higher rate, giving households more breath. The government's contribution is increasing for low incomes. We propose greater debt write-offs, as 120% of the value of the debtor's property will not be paid, but 100%. Our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is both realistic and effective and, above all, it is a proposal that currently protects thousands of borrowers, who are in great turbulence, with great concern for their homes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We call on you to adopt it, otherwise you will assume the political responsibility for the acute social problem that will arise in the next few years. In any case, Mr Mitsotakis, I think you should take a stand on this, because I understand that here there are pressures not only from outside, but from banks, bankers, banks, which, unfortunately, were not even playing their real role in the real economy. Those who really need can't go outside the banks' guise. Loans only get those who can prove they don't need to get a loan. I've heard the evidence you've given. I am thinking of a great deal of thought. I, where I stand, and where I meet small and medium-sized businessmen, say that they did not have access. We'll check your evidence. I'm not questioning them. However, I am very afraid that there has also been a game involving 'good clientele', the 'fillets' of the banks. They took the money, used it to protect their clientele, not those who really need it. Because, when the guarantee is at 80% and the other 20% is made by bank rules, these rules are rules that prevent an entrepreneur who some of you say 'job' to them. It's not a "job" people. They are facing enormous difficulties and must avoid locking and, in order to avoid locking, they must have access to cash. So you have to decide here who you are. With the banks or society? With the needs of society or with the needs of bankers with high wages? The banks are very keen to auction and to save a little their burden. At a time when they don't finance the Greek economy and when they provokely demand that they be able to regain these provocative bonuses that we saw before the crisis and the stock options, you come and give them everything back. Among other arrangements, which many of them have said are positive, you are bringing arrangements in this bill supposedly to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, arrangements that favour bank executives to start taking bonuses and stock options again. That is unacceptable! Instead of pushing the banks and their executives to finally open up their liquidity cannons to the affected companies, instead of pressing them to allocate the billions of euros borrowed by the European Central Bank to support small and medium-sized enterprises, you are coming today and rewarding the bank executives, their board members and banks' shareholders for their spectacular work, for their contribution to the implementation of the strategy, for the 'indulgence of herds', as we have called it in the economy, the strong to save the rest of the banks in Kaidas. Also, exempt from income tax benefits in kind, such as the free shares received by these executives, and the goodwill resulting from the sale of the shares, you only anticipate a tax of 15%. Only by chance is it not your choice to legislate now in this direction, nor, of course, the retroactive application of the regulation. And it is not by chance that the European Central Bank only extended the ban on any distribution of funds by banks, either in the form of dividends, in the form of a return to capital, or in the form of a bonus or a repurchase of shares. And Eurobank decided the day before yesterday to make such a move and to distribute to its managers, staff and all its associated options with a 23-minute practice price, when its share was closed yesterday in 39-minutes, thus making an additional 16-minute present per share of the stock. So that's the picture. While the economy is in a nightmare, while the average businessman is unable to access credit, while everyone is afraid that incomes will be cut - they have already been cut down, in the private sector they have already been cut and cut further, I do not know what the Pissaridis report on the insurance system says, we will see what will happen to pensioners - you are coming to reward the bank executives with new bonuses and stock options. You must therefore decide, ladies and gentlemen. Will you be with those who really need to support them or will you constantly make discounts on those who do not need tax exemptions on those who do not need it? Will you get the hammer the first place, the same time you give bonuses to the Golden Boys? In 2015 you delivered us, without any care for the protection of first home, an economy that was on the tartar. We got her back. The economy stood on its feet, the country stood on its feet. As far as the protection of first residence is concerned, we have improved and developed the legislation and have managed to preserve the people's residence, the first residence, intact. Today you're coming to unleash it all again. It's all the same again. But soon, Mr Mitsotakis, both the middle class that you deceived and the large social majority, which is intimate, will understand what your plan is and who you work for. It is only until then that you have not broken down everything with sacrifices and struggles that we have been building for four and a half years to rebuild the ruins. I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u110	The President of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u111	It's good, Mr. Tsipras, when we talk at the National Representation about such important issues, to be precise in what we're talking about. You spoke once again of the unprecedented recession that hits our country in 2020. Once again you tried to put forward a argument that the Greek economy was supposed to have been put into recession, so the problem is not only a coronary problem, but a structural problem that arises from our own policies. I've answered you many times with evidence. I will not go into this. But I will correct your inaccurateness so that you do not repeat it next time. When you said that Greece is currently facing the worst predictions from all European countries, about the widespread 2020 recession, what you said is inaccurate. The European Commission's forecast for recession in Greece is 9%. It has, indeed, been corrected to the lesser extent - slightly to the better - than the original forecasts. There are many countries that have much worse forecasts for 2020: Italy 11.2%, Spain 10.9%, France 10.6%, Portugal 10.8%, Slovakia 9% and it. Greece is therefore not the worst country in all European countries and I would ask you next time, when you talk about the Greek economy, to be more precise. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You spoke in detail about the Pissaridis project. I would like to inform you that the first text of the Pissaridis project will be posted and given public consultation may today, perhaps tomorrow, if it is ready by the committee. And I commit once again that, when we have the final text, which we consider to be in the beginning of September, there will be, as I said in my prology, sufficient time for discussion with both the social partners and Parliament. Mr President, there will be a debate on the government's final proposals before they are submitted to the European Commission. It is reasonable to say that the funding time for this programme exceeds the government's term of office. It is therefore perfectly logical that this plan should be discussed, as we are undertaking commitments that extend over the years. The same thing, of course, I must remind you that it also applies to the multiannual financial framework, which also has the prospect of implementing seven years. In any case, however, it is absolutely logical and necessary to discuss the proposal of the Government - the government's proposal is not the draft of the Pissaridis committee, we are still on it - in Parliament with the comfort of the time that the seriousness of the debate is demanding. Just explain a little what Pissaridis is. To explain that it consists of the leading Greek economists, whom we currently have at our disposal and who have offered to contribute to this project. They are not people who are identified with the government. No way. I don't think their scientific adequacy can be questioned by anyone. I say this in order to prevent possible arrows and shots against people who will expose their scientific views and present things as they see them. Neither the government's beggars are its tools. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You referred to the question of my announcement about the government's decision to pay in full in 2020 the retrospectives of the main pensions to all pensioners. I want to make it right here, too. The government's obligation, Mr. Tsipras, would have been to comply with the judgment in so far as it only occupied those who had relied on it. That would be the government's obligation under the law. We do not do so, for the simple reason that, in the event that we did so, it would be absolutely expected for everyone else to resort. And of course, in the course of time, they would probably be entitled, as we talk about the government's compliance with a pilot trial. But in this case, what would have happened is that we would have submitted pensioners to work and spending to seek legal advice and a significant proportion of what we would have given them would have been to the lawyers. We have therefore chosen to give all this together in 2020. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is a political decision. We could not give it all together. We could extend their disbursement to two or three years. These are all political choices we make. I now come to your comments and your criticism of what happened in Brussels. You have criticised us - first of all I welcome the mild, I think, climate that exists today in plenary, which I cannot say is in response to communications which have been made by your party in the past - on the phrase that I have used, that it is a fair and honest compromise. Yes, it's a fair and honest compromise. And, yes, Europe is always going through compromises, but this compromise has been a step in Europe as a whole. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unless you think it had to be, when after four days of exhaustive negotiations, where Greece played an important role... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Yes, Mr. Tsipras, I have no reason to go to advertise all the meetings I do behind closed doors, but I can assure you that Greece was present and very benefiting from this programme. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have therefore come to an end after four days in this solution, which in fact in relation to the initial solution of the committee is slightly worse. That's the truth. However, I would like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, that the starting point was not the EUR 500,000, 000, which was not there, it was zero. Zero was the starting point. And from scratch we went to 390,000,000,000 in grants. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that is something that was recognised by everyone. It was also recognised by the very advantageous and 'principal' ones with whom we did have a very difficult negotiation and which did not always show a great interest in European solidarity during the debate. Mr. Tsipras, if you were me, I imagine you'd tell me how you'd hit the table and at the last minute you'd veto. If you did this and believe that this is the right choice, go out and tell Parliament. I judged otherwise. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From there on, a question you raised is reasonable: can we absorb this money? The truth is that Greece does not have the best story in absorbing Community funds as a whole. And this is a timeless weakness of all governments, both ours and yours. The absorption rates were not satisfactory. They increased significantly over the past year due to COVID -19. I want to be honest. That is why we have succeeded and disbursed significantly how much of the NSRF, as we have had far greater potential. However, the burden of responsibility we take is that we should be able to launch a rapid absorption mechanism and the next multiannual programme and also the Recovery Fund. And we have to move on to structural changes in this matter, because the growth rates are inappropriate to the money we have to manage. Now, about where this money is going, I will have the opportunity at the Friday's Ministerial Council to speak a little more thoroughly about the main themes on which we are going to move. But we are talking about two, which - let me say - are the subjects to which this government, if anything, has given concrete examples of writing. I am thinking of the issues relating to the green transition and issues relating to the digital state. And when you say, Mr Tsipras, that you are not aware of doing anything in this area, you must be the only Greek who has not understood that a revolution has actually taken place in the communication of the state with entrepreneurs and citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, it is good when we talk about green development and a fair transition, not to be "bottom-up with the policeman and the countryguard". We have made a very bold decision to proceed with a rapid degree, which you still fight today. You cannot be with lignite and with the environment. You can't do that. There is, therefore, a central approach in these matters by the European Commission, which obliges us of an important part of the resources that we will have available to go to these policies. And, obviously, there will be much more specific specialisation for the major programmes that the country will launch and propose to the European Commission for funding. And I would like to stress here once again that on these issues the evaluation will be strict. This raises the expectations of the work that all of us will do, and we as Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, and the ministers, who will be invited to participate in their own work in drafting the plans. The demands and the batting of expectations from Europe will be high. But the cubit from the Greek society is even higher because it requires this money to be used effectively for the benefit of long-term development, to support short-term policies, as we have already done, but to invest not only for us, but above all for our children. I now come to the question of banks. I won't say much, Mr. Tsipras. I think that this game, 'the bad bankers, the good society', is a lot of money, and I do not think it sounds like many anymore. We are the first ones to recognize that the banking system needs to be "drive" more quickly to disbursement resources, especially when the state provides a state guarantee. I would like to inform you that on a weekly basis there are meetings between the two co-legislators, where we are asking the banks for very specific data and pressure the banks to disburse resources, but without emphasising it, but also being too specific - to violate certain basic criteria. Because I don't imagine the physical extension of what you said is to think that the bank should give a loan to anyone asking for a loan. I guess that's not it. And I would like to hear in particular that this is not it. The work of the state, however, is to come and provide liquidity to businesses which, for good reason, do not have access to bank borrowing. I would like to remind you that a month ago this House passed the microcredit bill, which provides an additional instrument to the financial system, to provide liquidity and small amounts to small businesses and to individuals who do not have access to the banking system. I shall table a table in the Minutes - it is a useful table, and I believe that it should be distributed to all my fellow Members - with the total sums, which have been disbursed by the special-purpose compensation of 1, 2 and by the repayable advance of 1, 2 per DU, so that each of them may know how many businesses and what amounts they have been disbursed in their constituency. It is important because I will repeat once again - because you criticised us for being late to move - that all these systems, which are unprecedented for the Greek state, have been set up in three months and that this money is money which has already been credited to business accounts. Well, I do. Overall, the state: EUR 2.3 billion in five hundred twenty-five thousand sixty-seven VAT. This changes every day, it is dynamic, because amounts are added, and no advance has yet been made. 3. I put it in the Minutes for any colleague who is interested. I think it is good to know how many companies are also benefiting from the electoral districts you represent. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, a last sentence on the question of banks. Do not return there, because in 2015 your tragic negotiation cost at least EUR 300,000,000 damage to the Greek State by the third, unnecessarily recapitalisation of the banks, which resulted from your own initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u112	Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u113	And for red loans, if anything, this government, through the HARAKLIS project, launched by the Government, has given banks at least one instrument that is reliable, which banks are already using to reduce their exposure to red loans as a systemic risk to the banking system. Now, all that you have said about the so-called stock options, I am sorry, Mr Tsipras, but you really do not understand the usefulness of this measure for unlisted businesses. This measure does not primarily benefit listed undertakings. He's got the unlisted business. It has small businesses, startups, which are unable to pay a large wage to their employees and want to make them sharers in the potential business success and, of course, this business success will not be the subject of too much taxation. That is the purpose of the measure, and that is why there are stock options in all countries, which are taxed in a different way than normal income tax. That is the purpose of the measure and not to benefit some bank managers or other executives of large enterprises. And you should understand the reasoning and thought with which we are moving in this direction. Now, I'm closing up with the issue of first residence. First of all, I have a question for you. It seems that there will be no debate in which I will be able to escape from making reference to the previous Minister for Finance, Mr Chakaloto. It seems to me that the late amendment you tabled does not have the signature of Mr Tsakalotou. I don't know if it's negligence, whether it's going to be added then, or whether it's a conscious choice. But I'm guessing it's the third one. And I think it is the third one, because Mr Chakalotos knows very well what he is committed to. And he knows very well that in April 2019, just before you left the government, he signed the conclusions of the Eurogroup, which were quite clear - I read - the following: ‘The Greek authority has legislated a new scheme for the protection of private residents, which has the primary to support banks in reserving Mortgage NPLs.’. It is the shape that we had supported and the shape that you have accepted that it has actually failed. The interest, however, is in the following sentence: ‘We take note of the comment of the Greek authorities to ensure that the scheme is temporary and will be determined by end 2019’. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You yourself were committed that this scheme would expire at the end of 2019. Obviously, that is why Mr Chakalotos has not added his signature to this amendment, which sets out criteria much more relaxing than what you had established. We, in any case, have submitted to the National Representation a very specific programme and plan, which also covers people who were hit by the crisis, who were outside the perimeter of the previous tools available to us. It is a project that I am sure many borrowers will take advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u114	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group now has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u115	I shall try to be very brief, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, I will only focus on one or two issues that you have raised. Obviously, I disagree with others, but it doesn't make any sense. I will focus on the issue of banks, the question of supplementary pensions, and I will make a comment in general. I am starting with the question of supplementary pensions. I have heard you, we have heard you all make a celebratory place and say that you give EUR 1.4 billion in 2020 as a result of the decision of the courts to comply with them. And then I commented on how you continued to say 'but end the gifts and end the demands'. The judgment of the Courts does not relate to the amount of EUR 1.4 billion. It's about a sum that, if I'm not mistaken, it's about 3.9 billion. In other words, you are actually coming to the Chamber today and, applauded by your Members, you are announcing, announcing a haircut on what retired people are entitled to take on the basis of court rulings, a haircut of over 60%. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The 2.5 billion to go from 1.4 to 3.9, what will happen, Mr. Mitsotakis? What's going to happen, I repeat? And let these things go now, that only the applicants had the right, because we too were in a position, and indeed, in a much more unfavourable situation, under a very strict budgetary committee, with the aim of reaching 3.5% every year, with the gun on the front. And we gave it to the special payrolls. You come here and you are actually announcing a haircut of over 60% of what pensioners deserve. I would really like an answer to that. One answer. Because you could say that you will only receive this year's main pension and subsidiary and gifts at another time, which will be available to finance. You didn't say that. Actually, you talked about a haircut. And because we need to speak the language of truth when we address the Greek people on such sensitive issues, you need to explain whether you really mean haircuts or something, which we did not understand. You told me there were a lot of issues. You told me that I am the only Greek in this country that I have not realised how great a revolution you have made in the digital state and in digital politics. I shouldn't be the only Greek. You know, because I have been accustomed to reading all the media and especially what has been very critical of us, my eye fell in the article of the Director of In.gr, Vassilis Kanelli, entitled 'Digital State for Laughing and Crying. Have you gone to the FBI and the tax office to see the situation and the tails?" Read it. I'm not the only Greek. There are also millions of our fellow citizens who are still suffering, unfortunately. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And anyway, stop this communication a little bit. It's not all communication. There's been steps. On the footsteps that we had created, the next time, you stepped on our footprints. We have implemented the Ministry of Digital Policy first. But don't make us crazy that within a year you've had a digital revolution, and I'm the only Greek who doesn't understand it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And for the green transition, for a fair transition, I can say a lot. All I will say is that the final negotiation for the European Union's Fair Transit Fund was also backwards for our country. While EUR 1.7 billion had been announced, we are now waiting for about EUR 700 million and at European level for a fair transition from EUR 40 billion to EUR 17.5 billion. The big problem is, there's no plan. Don't keep telling me about the lignite. I wish we could finish tomorrow morning with the lignite everywhere. But with a plan. What will happen to those areas that are almost monocultured? What will these workers become in western Macedonia, Megalopolis? Only unemployment and opportunities for German companies, as you said in the paper 'BILD'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, if your issue with the stock options and bonuses is to give startups a chance, you have the legal capacity, the legal capacity to do so for them. You have the opportunity to remove the banks from this amendment. Do it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do it. Remove the quoted ones. Do it for the unsubs. You have every chance. But you want to hide a deal that you may have made under the table or over the table. I'm not saying a lot of people don't do it on the table. You will have the comfort of doing things that cause Greek society, with the possibility of presenting them and communication. But don't hide behind the startups. You have the possibility. That's challenging, Mr. Mitsotakis. They're not the banks in general and the bankers. At a time when the average Greek expects to find it difficult to finance, when the average Greek, the businessman sees his business having a hard time, his income being reduced, where the range of unemployment is a nightmare, cannot today you legislate to return the bonuses and the stock options to the large executives of banks and Golden Boys. Understood. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It creates feelings of social injustice what you do. And it's also unfair in its essence. You have a special preference, it seems, a special sympathy to Euklidis Tsakalotos and every little bit of you raise the issue: why he didn't sign it, why he's not in the Chamber, etc. Mr Mitsotakis, listen now, I'm going to talk about the substance, because I don't like the political gossip. You told me that we signed commitments concerning the end of 2019. Yeah, that's true. We don't hide it. You know, when a Minister of Finance signs what Mr Stagioras signs, you also sign it at the same time. It is no longer the Minister of Government and the Prime Minister. It's obvious. Don't tell us what's obvious. To replace the existing institutional framework, we had an obligation by the end of 2019. We would replace it with a framework that would provide an extension of life and, above all, in practice, would protect the first residence and, in particular, the popular residence of our poor, weak fellow citizens. That was our plan. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So what you need to answer today is what you are replacing this framework. You are, unfortunately, replacing it with a 'Gefyra', which does not connect anything, with a 'Gefyra' which is ready and anyone who runs on this 'Gefyra', unfortunately there is a risk that it will fall into the water. And because it is nightmareous the prospect and the possibility - estimates are, I do not fully adopt them, but even speak of fifty thousand auctions in the next period - you think there is the possibility that the Greek society will be able to withstand this? So I'm telling you, let go of what we did and what we signed. We are bringing you a proposal for a law which is very specific, an amendment. Give the opportunity to protect the first residence and, above all, to the people's neighbourhoods - the home of the weak people. If this does not happen, you will have political responsibility in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u116	The President has the floor, Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u117	Mr Tsipras, I do not have the requirement that you yourself read the whole decision of the Council of State, but I have the requirement that your partners should know it. And your colleagues are well aware that the decision of the Council of State only concerns the retrospectives of the main pensions, no gifts and no subsidiary. And this sum is a 1.4 billion. I too am very frankly coming and saying that this amount can be covered. The budget for possible interventions that we can do in the future does not exist today. I am very honest and very clear about what I am saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u119	But at least when you talk at the National Representation about such an important issue, you should know exactly what the decision is about. And the court's decision - and I will say it once again - only concerns those who have relied on it. And we come by our own political decision, and we extend it to all pensioners.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u120	Before calling in Stepma Mr. Velopoulos, I will give the floor for two minutes to Mr. Tsakalotos, who has asked him for his name to be mentioned. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Many times Mr. Mitsotakis has criticized Alexis Tsipras and others that they do not read the texts well, that he reads a piece and does not read the other part. Let's see what Mr. Mitsotakis did today. He read from the text the Eurogroup decision, but forgot a piece, the last sentence. And I am entitled to say it in English, because the Prime Minister himself said it in English. So I read how the text is over, which is supposed to be signed by SYRIZA that there will be no protection of the first residence: "We welcome the comment of the Greek authorities to harmonize and improvve in the communication months in a holistic fashion the banking and insularity regimes". There is no obligation to extend the first residence. None! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The only obligation was to incorporate this protection into a holistic plan, let alone, after the COVID we have a new army of poor business, which we should not have had, we should have discovered. So, Mr. Mitsotakis - his Minister - can't hide. Bottom line - as we speak English anymore - is that they do not protect the first residence, and that is an opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u122	Here, Mr Stavura, you have the floor for two minutes too, to close it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u123	Mr Colleague, I wonder about your intervention and your late interest in the popular layers. Let go of the auctions! [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] You are not the one who declared 2017: "Auctions are good to have good banks..." - did you inform Mr. Tsipras? - "... but also for developmental and social reasons"? Are you in favour of auctioning and teaching the government? Second, he testified to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u124	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u125	You're welcome. Mr. Tsakalotus heard him calmly and we admired his accent!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u126	I will therefore submit to the minutes your statement on how fantasticly defenders you are for auctions, for banks, for banks, for the sake of banks, as you say, for social reasons, as you say, and for development. I will not just table the Eurogroup decision. Let's talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u127	Does it say what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u128	I've never interrupted. But I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u129	Please don't interrupt the speaker. It has a very few minutes at its disposal and it must be completed, as do you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u130	April 1st...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u131	Does that say what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u132	I'm worried about you! I guess you don't remember your signatures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u133	No, I want to know, does he say what I said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u134	When I finish and don't cover you, you can come back. After all, you could have signed the amendment or asked for the floor today at the sitting which you have not requested. Let's go to the law, 1 April 2019. No mention of what you're saying. Binding for December 31, 2019 to close the shape. I'll testify to this in the Minutes. We are going to the communication from the European Commission on 3-4-2019, because the European Commission has agreed texts with you. Applications may be submitted by 31 December 2019. In Greek. This will allow data to be reported on expiry of the scheme as part of the monitoring of the specific commitments at the end of 2019 in the context of enhanced supervision. No reference to a next figure. Let's go down. The Greek authorities are invited to commit that they will not extend any further the duration or scope of the new scheme. A new document. Moving down, June 2019. ‘The scheme will also be completed by the end of 2019’. Conclusion: Of all these schemes you committed that, first, the protection framework for first residence abolished it in February 2019. In my speech, I will testify to the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u135	To translate what he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u136	I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u137	He doesn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u138	Please, no vacation. You've heard and it's his turn. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u139	As long as you are in such a hurry, on 31 December 2018 you are abolishing, with your signature, the protection of first residence from February 2019 and you come and make a scheme of protection of first residence for a specific perimeter only for those who are “red” up to 31-12-2018 and for specific income and asset criteria. We have voted for it, strengthened it and I shall speak about it in my speech. So the SYRIZA Government and Mr. Tsakalotos in December 2018 abolished by law the protection of first residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u140	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u141	The opinions of both sides have been heard. The views of both sides will be appreciated. The President of the Greek Solution Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, thank you very much. Of course, in your presence the Rules of Procedure were violated, but it does not matter. When calling for a party leader, Mr President, to speak, neither a Member nor a Minister intervenes. It's all right! We all do. Let's go to the Prime Minister's speech. Today the Greek Prime Minister came and told us that those who fought in '74 are giving lifelong retirement and you all applauded together. All of you! It gives lifelong pension to warriors - '74s fighters! In other words, it has been forty-six years since - it is now sixty-four, sixty-six years old people - give them 200 euros and applaud the Greek Prime Minister. Two hundred euros! He's not here to hear it, he's gone. Two hundred euros an honorary pension!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u143	That's what they asked. I have the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u144	That's what they asked, and that's what you said. But we're actually going. Two hundred euros in a warrior in Cyprus?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u145	I have the letter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u146	But I'm telling him, but he's telling me. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] If the Greek state assesses the struggle in Cyprus with 200 euros, then I have another view. On the other hand, the Prime Minister has committed himself here a few months ago - who is missing again - to giving a solution to the North-South issues. He pledged in the presence of the Greek people to the brothers of Northcontinent to give a solution. Months passed, and it's still not a solution. And it's not just them. There are also the Greeks, because there are the Greeks who have returned, and we also have Pontians in here and nobody speaks. Unfortunately, I'm saying that. If Mr Stagiras thinks it is right to give them two hundred, because they asked for two hundred, I would give them five hundred, because they fought because they fought. Give us first of all what you promised and come tell us what you were doing along the way. So you applauded for two minutes. You know I'm not gonna tell the Prime Minister a liar. I will say, however, that the Prime Minister has done a great deal of work today. Minister, it is just the state that accepts decisions of the S.H.E. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. So the pensioners' retrospectives shouldn't have given them up? [[Noise in the Chamber]] What do you care, you tell me, you? Do you care? I'm talking to each other, coffee, coffee... Madam President, I don't know, when Mr. Tasoula is here, everyone sits here normally, when others go up and go up and goats! [[Noise in the Chamber]] I will leave, Madam President. You can't do that. I can't speak like that. If people don't want to get up and go.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u147	Excuse me, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, please, he is the President at Step and must be heard. Continue, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u148	I sat down for two and a half hours and watched the two chiefs. I do not demand anyone to listen to me, but at least I demand at least those who are existing parties or MPs, if they do not want to hear, leave. So let's go to the most serious. The New Democracy MPs have been applauding for two minutes, all of whom have been standing, and the Prime Minister, for giving the pensioners the money they deserve, but not all of them. He gives a few gentlemen to those who went to court, and the others are the suckers. And that's not all, gentlemen of the New Democracy. What's the worst? You put it in the french french scale. You are leaking the press that, because you retrospectively give pensioners, you cannot get French freshmen to equip the country. If this is called good governance in a country, I have another view and I will therefore say that the New Democracy is lying. You're all lying. The Greek Prime Minister said he respected the decision of the Council of State. Admit it to some degree. The decision on St.A.'s mufts, why didn't the New Democracy Government itself respect it? The decision on the uniforms' retrospectives, why didn't you respect it? Who are you lying to? The worst of all is that you lie and believe them and your own people and Members applaud you. You are lying in the House, written in the Minutes, which do not act. I'm sorry, because the Prime Minister was waiting for the reformist and at least honest. But to come here and say: do we respect S.H.E.'s decisions, but the two previous decisions not to respect them? So what? On national issues, particularly for mufts, illegals, you have recognized, not legal and second-hand uniforms. What about the uniforms? Scoundrels? I'm saying that to understand. Stop, finally, lying. I'm tired of listening to this House lies to them and not to them. You fought for the first home, for the auctions - and SYRIZA and the New Democracy - and you came here, you will model your videos in the news releases, which are yours most and you will play what you like. You want the truth about the first residence? You're not going to solve any problems. You challenge - I repeat - the prevention of auctioning. That's your dispute about when she'll be transferred in six months, in one year, in two years. It is not a question of preventing something that comes, but of solving the problem. We suggested bad bank. We were the first, and in our programme we have said so, do a bank called bad bank, transfer red loans there. We've filed it, we've said it, we've yelled it. And the worst of all, what is it? You come here as merciful, Minister, and you do charity to the Greeks. Don't worry, the auction will go later, like you're giving your own money. Let me tell you something, Minister, and say it like that to understand it. The Greek doesn't want charity, he wants work, he wants work, he wants to work and pay his debts, he wants dignity. So bring him dignity back. You're always questioning who made the biggest mistakes or the least mistakes. It is important that the country produces wealth. Even for this story with Pissaridis, I'll ask the Prime Minister. Are these paid, Mr. Stakoura? Is the committee paid? It's a reward, can you tell us? Will people be paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u150	They're not paid. I read in the preliminary draft, because I hear various things, that - he says - export targets. Ten years, like we said, ten percent? If exports increase to 10 years 10% we don't save ourselves with anything and talk to you a man who knows about business and who has made exports, because you don't know the basics. Because all export from product is done by Greece, the raw materials are imported. Basically, you don't know. And if Pissaridis, who took Nobel, doesn't know the basics, we're in trouble anymore. We have a real problem. And I hope that what the Minister says will apply, Pissaridis will not be paid for by the committee, these economists, the Greeks who gathered under the Prime Minister and will propose some things. So many economists went through the country, guys, and they went bankrupt. So, now these economists are going to turn us into recovery? Examples. The Prime Minister came here and gladly said that we are the country that will become 'green'. Green country took place in '81 with PASOK, green. Will you make it green again, with the lignite, to win the Germans, as the Greek Prime Minister himself said on German TV? And you don't care about local society if people get to work if they get to work? And since you're so interested in people's health, make the hospitals work at least. You are interested in green growth and the planet. Listen to what you're interested in. You are interested in the Germans who make wind turbines, to buy them by Greece, to get 10 euros from Europe for green growth, to pay 3.4 euros for the wind turbines, to place it in a forest that was symptomatically burnt a few years ago, let's say South Evia, Kineta, since we're talking about the Eye that a big-worker asked for, an oligarch to do stories with bauxites. But you don't know that, you don't look for it, they do giz! And I say, they burn forests and set wind turbines. In thirty years these will be over. Where are they going? Do you know where they're going? Because they're making toxic waste, they're full of rare earths made. Does anyone know? Let me say that the Prime Minister was committed - and had promised - to make a wind turbines production unit in Greece to also export, to say that it is a success. It closes lignite, imports wind turbines, the electricity deficit, where are we going to cover it? There's going to be an electricity deficit. Long live the hippo? Long live Marinakis? Long live Mytileneus? Are you working for them in the New Democracy or any of the few? And you're glad that an entire western Macedonia will come out to unemployment, ladies and gentlemen? The whole of western Macedonia, unfortunately, with your mistakes and PASOK, has built up its economy in lignites, in the fugitives, and now you are shutting them down and dying in hunger. And what does the Greek Prime Minister, whoever was in his place, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Varoufakis, say instead of thinking before he shuts down to create jobs? Let's get someplace else's work. Really? Is that the social sensitivity of politicians? Is that what politicians think? I am sorry, but that is not reasonable, and I expected a Prime Minister to have a different attitude to the citizens of a whole western Macedonia, which is now being misled. That's where they live. Unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately. And listen to your tragics, because I'm really pissed off today. In forty-five years after the Migration, we had a hundred ninety tax bills. Listen to the number and it's not mine. The Minister's answer is here. I'll testify to her in the Minutes. A country, Mr Stavoura, which has made a hundred and ninety tax bills, namely 4.2 tax per year, is not a country, is no longer a state. Not to say what it is, because I'm in the House. Every year 4,2 tax bills? Are we serious? But you yourself as government have brought four to five so far. How much did you bring in taxes? Don't you bring in more every week? So, so good is the operation of your government that every week, every month, every two months, you bring in another bill? Listen. The plurality, my Minister, is at the service of the lawyers. The pluralism suits the lawyers, suits the accountants, suits those who want to find windows to do their job. Make a specific tax bill so that I, as well as a businessman, know my booze for the next ten years, not expect to expect your Prime Minister or your Minister to wake up to change my tax bill in a year. How are investors coming here? But you've made taxation like the accordion, you open it, you close it, as it suits. So, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot pursue a serious policy. And listen to the tragic: the Greek Prime Minister came here to tell us - I wanted him to listen to me today, he escaped - that with the EUR 40 billion from the ESDP, which put it all in the money that we will get from the European Union, Greece will refresh financially and will come growth. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone here know how much money we have received so far from the ESDP? We have received EUR 200 billion so far, until a few years ago! We got $200 billion. And we went bankrupt with 40 billion. Is the economy going to light up? Guys, let's get some serious. Things are more serious than we're acting in here. Because if we act like this, I do not know where the New Democracy and the neo-democratics will hide with what they say. And I will prove them to you now - and I address Mr Stakoura, my friend, who is a Minister of State - with Article 7: 'The tax administration may suspend the use of VAT when the holder commits tax evasion'. So, the non-issuance of a receipt of an amount of EUR 5 can even bring about a suspension of the VAT? Minister, will you answer this? If you want, answer us. So, the non-issuance of a 5 euro receipt will result in the suspension of the VAT? That's in Article 7. You have the consultants there to let you know to answer us. And I come to Article 54e: 'A premium of EUR 30,000 to EUR 50,000 if the declaration is not submitted'. In other words, in the event of a loss of a tax service, i.e. the cash machine, and in the case of a theft of the machine, a man will pay EUR 30,000 to EUR 50,000! Are you serious now? Is that a serious bill? You'll change it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u151	There's nothing you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u152	In Article 54e?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u153	Article 61 of the CCT.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u154	I'm talking about Article 54e, one, one. I'm telling you where. You will answer here, Minister, for Article 54e. You want truths, Mr. Besyropoulou, and you will hear them now. We have the highest property tax, HISPIA, in the European Union, yes or no? One, one! Are we third in total on real estate taxes? I'm just telling you things. Have you really forgotten about Article 63? That's what they told me. There's no article 63 in the bill. That's what they told me, and I had a shock. When you brought it to us and delivered it to us, there was no article 63. The truth is that there are positive provisions in the bill, which we will certainly vote on. But it's not developmental, Mr. Besyropoulou! I was expecting your Ministry to say "the embargo on Russia" to sell my peaches and fruit and vegetables to the Russians. That means growth, that I'm making exports. Pissaridis says about exports. How will fruit and vegetables be exported with an embargo on Russia? That's why I'm telling you you're contradictory. It's contradictory what they're telling us. Probably in the Greek Solution we speak another language and we tell you specific things. We have reduced tourism by 75%. The reservations of June and July are minimal. It's a very unfavourable environment. I won't say deficits and failure. Here's Staruras. Mr. Stavura, you're not doing too well in the numbers! One time you said 8% the recession, the other you said 4%, the other 5%, the other 12%, the other 15%! How much recession do we have? Are you going to tell us here? Because you were telling us a number of numbers. Since you were like Pythia: "sleepings not in warfare", "Nissance lawlessness not in sight"! That's what you do all the time. But don't be like that! That's what you were telling us. You were telling us 4%, 5%, 8%, 12%, 19%, 25%. How old is he? Tell us a number, so we know, so we can count and tell us that the Minister tells us that number. So that we can, if you like, do our own thoughts and what we should say. I will not say, what you have done with the money we supposedly received. Listen! You are experts in baptizing the fish meat. So how much money did we get, damn it, get up? You're putting the NSA in? You put it on. Why? Wouldn't we get the money from the N.R.R.D. again? The Prime Minister and you Finance Ministers came out and said: "Greatly, European solidarity has helped us and we will receive grants". Now, you probably wanted to say'subsidies' to the loan trial and you said'subsidies'. Because they're giving us loans again! Is that European solidarity? Did you put the N.R.R.D. in? But we were gonna call anyway. I'll tell you the numbers and correct me if I'm wrong: 40 billion. They are the money of the ESDP that we would receive independently of COVID, EUR 13 billion. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. are grants. And you lie so much, son, that Baron Munchausen - and I'm talking about finances - would be little, would be Contorevithulus! So much lies all over it? So much? And you know what the worst of all is? You made a fight to level the Greek, to make the big investment. Staruras is gone. It's okay, one, one. I will say this: Symptoms in Greek - symptoms! - he's Mr. Zavvos' brother, Soros's man on the board. Am I wrong? Mrs. Xafa, who said "cut pensions" on the Greek board of directors. I'm sorry now, but is this an investment? Loan investment? Latsis got loans from the Greek State, made a bond, took more money, and he's an investor? He speaks, shouts from far away: "I am a banker, borrow me to invest." But that is what the man said, as did the 'FRAPORT'. Loan them to invest. "Investor" means I have money in my pocket and I go and invest. That means investor and not borrow and invest! Or else, I put money first, and if I need more money, I go and get a loan. They took the loans before they put money. Look, I have another perception. And I will prove to you how unsuccessful all of you are, you who ruled. Listen now! Sell the port of Alexandroupolis. You're selling it out! You don't leave anything standing up! Transfer container from Piraeus via Bosphorus, cost of 1500 euros and three to four days depending on how much traffic Bosporus has to pass the ship carrying the containers. Transportation from Alexandroupolis: six and a half hours and cost 400 euros. The overwhelming advantage of the port of Alexandroupolis you give it to the Americans and make it a disadvantage! Listen to what I told you! The cost of a container going to Bosphorus is 400 euros, going from Alexandroupolis to Crimea, in any case, I tell you, 1500 euros and four days to go from another side. A few advantages, geostrategically and geopolitically, had our country and you had it all! Well done, you're capable of worse! I'm telling you you're capable of worse! You gave the Americans the port for free! Tell me why. Did you agree that they would protect Evros or protect us from any attack? Did you make them the area's ladders? Tell me why! It's like a mask! Like the mask you made us all wear it in here today like carnivals! And the President of Parliament did so! Mr. Tasoulus solved all the problems! The mask that Mr. Chiodras told us at first that it is dangerous to wear, then it became harmless, then it became optional and then compulsory. And you got us here to wear the masks like a clown - I'm telling you directly now - to prove on the channels the image that we're good and we're wearing masks, so you're gonna wear the rest of us. Go to some beach bar to see what's going on! Who are we mocking in here? That is to say, stop all this figurative, the imaginary, that the House has done this and 'bravo', we say to each other 'bravo', 'what a good thing you have said, Mr President!'! People don't believe us, nobody believes us! First, if you go out, you'll see that the mask is a black market product. She's extremely expensive! There's no valuation, there's no control! And you know what the worst is? You open the cruises today - you open them, you say the cruise will be opened - and at the same time you oblige us to wear masks! I will tell you directly that you are communication impeccable, check the media very well, savage you all day long, but in fact you are a patron in the exercise of a serious policy. And to clear up a few things, you know what this proves to be? You are asking for assistance from the European Union. I'm sick of telling you the truth, and some people don't understand in here! Would you like to see the trade balances between Turkey and the European Union? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you do not deceive the world and do not deceive yourself of the New Democracy itself: Germany: EUR 35.9 billion. Dollar transactions. That is the volume of trade between Turkey - listen! - and Germany. Italy: EUR 19.7 billion, France: EUR 14 billion, Bulgaria: EUR 6 billion, Belgium: EUR 3 billion, Hungary: EUR 2 billion, Austria: EUR 2 billion A lot of states are doing business with Turkey and Greece is waiting - and the rest of the parties are wrong - for the European Union to impose sanctions on Turkey, that is to say, for the German to take the pistol and shoot his feet where he has a bunch of his own companies, German companies in Turkey and export and earn money! Is it possible that Merkel will do that? For very pricks you pass the Germans, who have never been friends of ours. And, fortunately, the first to reveal it was Eleftherios Venizelos, this great leading figure that understood that the Germans were never friends of Greece. So, you tell me, how are the countermeasures going to be imposed? Here to convince them, you do not take countermeasures yourself! Take countermeasures! Mr. Andreas Martinos said it was about the shipowners. Call the shipowners and tell them: 'Don't go five thousand ships to Turkey at their shipyards'. We give them EUR 1.3 billion a year! I'm talking about shipowners, your friends, because I know the ministers are on holiday with shipowners, they're on their boats. And they do well. People have a love, a bulial mood for the chili. It's their right. It's their choice. I can't make that choice. But tell the shipowners that the shipowner Andreas Martinos is coming out - and in his honor and good, I don't know the man - and he says that all shipowners must boycott the Turks and the government doesn't even make a move to call them behind the scenes to force them! I'm telling you the simplest. You know, there are other ways to countermeasure. In particular, I tell you about Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia, which is sunnitic, as is Turkey's sunny, has devoured us as a country, and the Minister for Finance has officially announced all their channels of boycotting in Turkish products. And you don't dare? So, should the Turks arrive to Preveza, so that you can understand that we have a problem or believe that this incident has been postponed for a month, to go to a Zurich-type dialogue, as Erdogan drags you a step forward - to a dialogue without having a Council of Political Heads and going to a subtle dialogue, so that I can say it straight away? Slowly, you're taking us to dialogue. What should we negotiate with the Turks, that my property is half theirs? That's what Turkey says, that half our property is theirs, half EOZ, gas, even Crete. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that Crete is also a matter of discussion. They've put it all on the table. Who will the Prime Minister discuss? With the liar Erdogan? Man is a Nazi, a fascist and a liar! He's got it all together! Where are you taking the country? The Albanian Minister for Tourism came out here and said to boycott Greek businesses in Northern Epirus, because they speak the Greek language. And one step your government did not! Who? The Albanians we feed them, we water them, they work here and they send their money there! And the Albanian Minister for Tourism officially asked that Greek products be boycotted in Northern Epirus because, he says, the inhabitants speak Greek! And there was no single protest from either one of you! From no one! Neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the Ministry of Finance! Why, gentlemen? Why? I don't understand! We're the only ones who see all this or are we the only ones listening? It is the shame of all that is happening! Also, I'll say it. We need to prepare ourselves for a long-term - I stress it - a long-term war of nerves from Turkey. Unfortunately, the elections in America are in November. Erdogan knows Trump is his own man for his own reasons, and anyway, people have relationships with each other. Be ready for a psychologically long-term war of nerves of oppression of the Greek forces. This "beam-go-go-go" of the Greek Navy will see it again and again, remember me. The time horizon is the American elections. That is, if elected on January 20, 2021, other than Trump, Turkey and Erdogan, lose their ruins. So this horizon is very important for our national issues. Honestly, you're contradictory, self-determined, because the only thing he's talking about, he says, the Prime Minister and Mr. Petsas is the continental shelf and the AOZ. But the other side affects you ten other issues! How are you gonna get into dialogue? Because Germany said so and put you in a wedge, which symptomaticly took a lot more money than Greece took from the grants? Do you understand what you're going to do? They put the Germans into Spain, so they don't look like the Germans! Read some German press! Read some more! Why do you invoke International Law as a New Democracy and a Government for dialogue? You tell me! After Erdogan disputes international law, he does not accept it! What dialogue do you want to have, since the other party does not accept international law? What can we talk about? Tell me about it. They're asking for disarmament of the islands. You know that? They're asking for a gas split. They're asking the conversation to have the Turkle pact. Erdogan said so himself! What dialogue can we have with him? You tell me! The Prime Minister has to gather - probably why he left, he knew I was going to tell him - the Diacondulus. The National Security Adviser can't go around the channels and talk! Minister, I've never seen a National Security Advisor in another country be on the channels every two days and speak! The National Security Adviser is like the Greek Prime Minister speaking. You know what he said? I'll tell you what. Get him! He's dangerous! And I'm telling you, to understand it! The journalist "Orutch Race" is in Antalya. What about 'Barbarus'? You know what he said? He said "A, "Barbaros" is about Cyprus, which is another state. Not applicable to Greece.’ The man is dangerous! Ellas is a guarantee force! Did you forget? The Greek EEZ is leaning on the Cypriot! Did you forget? Is Cyprus far away? And is Diakopoulos, the National Security Advisor, coming out and saying that? It says that there are two different things about "Oruts Race" in Kastelorizo and "Barbaros" in Cyprus! Cyprus is an independent sovereign state, which also exists, of course, the brutal violation of sovereign rights, but it is not something that is happening for the first time! Yes, we were not raped for the first time in Cyprus by the Turks! That's what Diakopulus says! We're being raped several times, so we like it! Get him! Pick up the man! He's dangerous! He's dangerous! It comes out every day in "MEGA", "SCAI"! Why? Tell me why! Closed up, so I don't have much time, I'd like to say something to SYRIZA, with a lot of sympathy. Pick up your youth too, guys! We risk Turkey and go and do your youth - I don't know if it's true - camping in Grammos, he says, to remember the old ones. Why, man? Colleagues, we have Turkey towards us! Leave the civil war now! I hear from here some strange guys talking about Grammo, saying they're going to Grammos camping. Why? Explain why! Let's just drop this, 'cause things are getting tough. I'm talking about SYRIZA youth. I'm saying this here because I'm in trouble too! Don't we have any more serious issues to deal with? I'm telling you, I can't understand. I don't really know! Civil war now that Turkey is escalating against us? Now? I would also like to say something, which I think is particularly important. Many have said a number of things about our national issues. I am one of those who believe that if it does not become a FYROM and a Council of Political Heads, this government takes on a very great risk of signing national treason in relation to Turkey. He is obliged by the Greek Prime Minister to convene a Council of Political Heads. We got an extension of one month from the Turks to get into dialogue. To make a Council of Political Heads, because what the New Democracy accused of having done with the Prespecies, SYRIZA is repeated by those of the New Democracy and the Government today. However, repeated coincidences cease to be coincidences. It is a plan to sell Macedonia and the other Aegean, Crete and Kastelorizo. I am sure that the Members of the New Democracy in their overwhelming majority do not accept that, because it is a party that has history - and it must have history and all parties must have history - but they will not let any Prime Minister, any President, any Minister in this country be stained. Don't let New Democracy sign such a deal. It's gonna be a crime! Also, I don't want to say it, but I'll say it. Seeing the Minister of Foreign Affairs with a Panathinaikos mask meets the Minister of Spain, that outruns me, children, honestly, not because I'm another team, but it outruns me. I don't know. I didn't expect Mr. Treasury. But more I was expecting, but with a Panathinaikos mask at an official meeting? We will soon all wear masks from our team in here and meet with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic and I don't know who else. Okay, a little seriousness doesn't hurt, because it seems to me that in the New Democracy, because of the remodelling, they've relaxed a lot. It's over, guys. Some on Friday will be Ministers! Welcome, well-traveled, but especially for the homeland to work, because - I will tell you directly - you will not be ruling for a long time. Since October, you will be thrown at stones in all the media. Immunity's over. Sixteen, eighteen months is for all governments. Then I don't know where you're gonna hide. I don't know. We came here to help you, whatever government, but if you go on like this, we will throw stones at you and make you severely critical, because your inability is now dangerous. Let's get a little serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u157	First, Mr. Varoufakis, colleague, who is Chief and then you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, I would like the floor for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u159	No, Mr. Colleague, the party chief will speak and then take the floor to say what you want. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u160	I'm so sorry, Madam President. I'd be done now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u161	Please, Mr. Comrade. Don't make a point. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a country that is shaken by an economic and budgetary collapse - it is no longer just a crisis - that the sustainability of society is being tested, which has an existential crisis, after ten years of memoranda, the tax bills brought by a government demonstrate the seriousness of it, but also judging by the reaction of the Anti-Population Officer, are being heard of the seriousness and the Anti-Population Officer. Are you guys standing up for the occasion? Do you combine a correct diagnosis with therapeutic interventions? The answer relentlessly negative for you and for you. SYRIZA argues that if he had stayed in things, the recovery today would continue or at least continue until COVID hit -19. You claim you brought the recovery until the virus came and overthrowed this beneficial process. This is an alliance of deception of the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, it has nothing to do with your own policy or your own policy. You don't practice politics. You are applying a predetermined policy. The fourth memorandum signed in August 2018, two years ago, which, of course, Mr. Tsipras wanted to tax on Orwell, called it a "memorandum" or "exodus from the memoranda", whichever managed this fourth memorandum would further deepen the Greek social economy at the end. He was in his nature. Last summer, if you remember, as soon as we entered the Parliament, Mera25 pointed out that the fake recovery of 2017-2018 would give its place in GDP reduction in 2019. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we have been confirmed. Then came the COVID -19, and so the gradual blow of the bubble gave its place to its sudden digging. At the beginning of March, we were here, Mr Stakoura, in the same Chamber, only we talked, we dared, on 10 March - you will remember - to talk about a recession that, if we were lucky, we said, would be about 10% of GDP. You were looking at me from the corners of the counterpopulation. The media, with which you're being co-administered, invaded me. Unfortunately, we've been confirmed. This is the order of recession in better cases.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u163	You said 15%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u164	I said 10% on March 10th. And I said, Mr. Stakoura - you'll remember, we can look into the Minutes as well...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u165	When did you say 15 percent?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u166	Two weeks later. Mr. Staura, we're serious people. I said on 10 March that we would be lucky if it were limited to 10%. And two weeks later I talked about point estimate around minus 15%. I'm still in the same appreciation. Your assessment at the time - and it's good to remember that and admit it - was 0%. No recession. After a while you've been sliding from reality to 2%, 3%, 4% and now I don't know where you've been. Eight percent? You're very close to the 10% you said on March 10th. And it's very important, you know, to admit our mistakes. And I am glad to see that you want to remember on 10 March, when there was so much divergence of your prediction and mine and now you have come closer to it. But it does not matter, Mr Stakoura, which politician is confirmed and who is not. It is important to protect the citizens. We agree on that, don't we? It is important to protect the people. But in order to be protected against citizens, there is a need for a serious diagnosis. Reading your tax bill now, I see no link between some serious diagnosis and measures to protect citizens. On the other hand, I see that you are setting up incorrect assessments of measures to protect individuals, parasites and funds. You know very well what I'm talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment we need to ask some basic questions, firstly, as far as the European Union is concerned and, secondly, as far as your own policies are concerned. They are crucial questions of historical importance. I begin with the two questions which we must all ask about the intentions of the European Union. The first question is: will your austerity be imposed, a fifth tougher memorandum next year, as we predict? Because if they do, you are well aware that any normal improvement in economic activity - because we hope that 2021 will not be as tragic as 2020 - any normal automatic recovery and improvement exists, will be suppressed if you are forced by the troika to impose hard measures of a fifth memorandum. And the second question is: What is the real support from the Recovery Fund in relation to the austerity that comes? What are the numbers, the real numbers? Not 72 billion. I heard the Prime Minister again, unfortunately. You know, I grieve when I hear political opponents benefiting from dialogue in this Parliament. There are no 72 billion. What exactly is this aid? And is it capable of acting on the contrary and of canceling the material dynamics that will carry the measures that we predict? These are the two questions. Let's get the first one. Will they impose you austerity and how much? The German government has said so indirectly. He stated that the federal state budget for 2021 would return to "black" zero, i.e. a small primary surplus. Again on 10 March, if I am not mistaken, I had predicted that this Berlin Declaration would also force the government budgets of weak countries, such as Greece, Spain, Italy and so on, but we did not have to wait for this, because you said so, Mr Stakoura. What did you say? I would refer you to the Eurogroup communiqué of 11 June, which, if it were to be common, also had your own signature. He speaks well and clearly verbatim about Greece, not the European Union as a whole, not in the eurozone as a whole, but in Greece. This is the joint statement by Greece 'Statement on Greece' and it says 'Return to primary surplus in 2021'. It even reminds you of a commitment that you had made, because the communiqué states that, according to the communiqué of 11 June, you had made on 16 March, where you spoke, according to the communiqué of 11 June Eurogroup, saying that 'automatic reductions in revenues and increases in unemployment benefits will not affect compliance with the applicable financial rules, objectives and prerequisites'. That's 2021. You signed it. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We shall now go to the second question, given the austerity you have signed. Because, Mr Stavoura, you are well aware that to go to a primary surplus in 2021, this is not without austerity, unless - and here is the second question - the Development Fund will help you enough not to have to close your budget, to balance it through material memorandum measures. Let's see the size class. On the one hand, your Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Bank of Greece, which was a little bit stubborn, mentioned a government budget deficit for the first half of the 6 billion. You said so. In fact, given that the second half of each year is the six-year period during which major public revenues are actually coming due to tourism, due to the payment of contributions from natural persons, our estimate is that you will have a hole in the state budget this year at least - I would say more - 20 billion, as a percentage of gross GDP. Of course we have to wait and see how much GDP is going to be shrinking. We're talking about a hole in the 15% state budget for this year. I have no doubt - and I beat wood and I wish our country wholeheartedly - that 2021 cannot be as bad as 2020. It's gonna be a little better. So there will be an automatic improvement in both budgets and public revenues. But how much will she be? If you start with a budget deficit of more than 20 billion, around 15% of highly shrinking GDP, you will need at least 10 billion to balance the budget and show a small primary surplus. At least 10 billion. I am very conservative and very, very optimistic from your point of view. How much do we have received? If we listen to these 70 and 30 billion and the 20 billion that you say about the Recovery Fund, someone will think: Good, they will be imposed on them by measures of 10 billion, they will take 10 billion, maybe they will get more, they will need no austerity. You know very well it's not like that. Firstly, these billions of the Recovery Fund will not come to your fund, they will not contribute to the state budget, they will, such as an NSRF, into the funds of some businesses, for example the FRAPORT, which has taken over airports, and they will also get the enhanced NSRF. And that is not the case, let us see what remains clearly in the country of these 72 billion who dared to mention again without the Prime Minister red. It's simple: 12.12 billion. These will be left, ladies and gentlemen, 12.12 billion. It's a symmetrical number. That's what's left of them. How do these come about? Greece will receive, according to the European Commission's figures, 22.4 billion. In particular, 19.4 from the Recovery Fund plus another 3 billion from a small increase in the NRP and the Common Agricultural Policy. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is something I do not see in any media, I do not hear the Prime Minister discuss it. I can't hear Mr. Stakoura say it. We will owe the European Commission money. The European Commission has no money. These 750 billion will borrow them. How? With guarantees from the states. We also have something to give. This will be redeemed. It will automatically be added by the Troika accountants to our potential permanent debt. How much is that? It is 1.37% of 750 billion, which is 10.3 billion. In the troika's accounting figures this is added to the debt. They have received 10.3 billion from us to give us aid of the order of 22.4 billion. The difference: 22.4 minus 10.30 is 12.12 billion. And all this in three years. In other words, if he enters your country - not your fund, there will be nothing in your fund - an amount of 4 billion in 2021, we will be lucky. The 'elephant in the room' for which no one is speaking is the one I mentioned earlier that according to the figures, which I can understand as an economist, you will have to close down, limit the state budget to 10 billion at best. So if you catch the troika being in her sweetest and most generous phase. You will have to measure 10 billion and take some businesses in Greece, if everything goes well and there is absorption, around 4 to 4.5 billion. I have heard Mr Tsipras before reproducing, snatching the propaganda of the government and the media, that it is okay, that this money will not have to be given back, because the European Commission will collect it from its own resources. What own resources? Okay, are you serious? Of the own resources to which they have been referred, which is digital tax and other taxes, which have already been rejected after abomination by at least eleven countries? Are you counting this money that it's ours? I wish it would. But it won't happen. And tell you why it won't happen, what's the proof? Who is the new President of the Eurogroup? The Irish Minister of Finance. Excellent, sir. But you should know that this marks the European Union's choice of not having own resources, because Ireland is one of the vetoing countries in this. I put these figures in the Minutes of the House to question them in writing, Minister. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I have heard the Prime Minister mention his commitment not to unlawful, to follow the orders, the decision of the Council of State and to return retroactively to the pensioners. I'm glad he won't be illegal. A question with regard to pensioners: Do you promise that you will not cut their pensions in 2021-2022 when the 'complex' of the repayment of the budgetary pact comes? Do you commit, Mr. Stakoura? You have the opportunity to stand up and say: 'I promise I will not reduce pensions within the framework of a fifth memorandum'. I'll applaud. I fear that you will not do so because you do not have the right to do so because you have already committed yourself to the Fifth Memorandum indirectly. The Prime Minister referred to the Recovery Fund, as did Mr Tsipras, as if it were a good time for the European Union, as if after many years, after ten years of a follow-up of pragmatism, cunning decisions that effectively undermined even what they say the European idea, there was a good time with debt-sharing, with solidarity, they decided to take a step in the right direction with many difficulties. It's not in the right direction. Yes, there has been a name-by-name debt sharing, but the Recovery Fund in the way you have created it, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, is the accelerator of the degradation of the European Union for two reasons: First I have already mentioned and will not tire you out. He's the "Elephant in the room". Remember that the Prime Minister, rightly so, has co-signed the idea of Eurobonds, which some of us have been pushing it forward since 1999, followed by you. But it doesn't matter. You changed your mind about that. He embraced the idea of Eurobonds, but very quickly he forgot it because Mrs Merkel said to him 'Let us talk about the Recovery Fund'. 'Let this be' is the fifth Memorandum. Because there is no Eurobond, you have to make a fiscal adjustment, a fifth memorandum, austerity. Call it whatever you want. You will bear the political cost. The Greek people will suffer misery. And you got the Recovery Fund. How does the Recovery Fund work? Think about it. Yes, there is a mutual debt, but it is not a Eurobond. I want for a moment to imagine this: let's go to another country outside the Eurozone, to deviate any tension and disagreement between us. Assuming we're in Great Britain, in the United Kingdom. I could take America as an example. When the United Kingdom was hit by the crisis now, the government budget deficit was greatly increased, as is the case here. Without a council, a council, a meeting of representatives of different provinces, regions of Britain without negotiating between representatives of Scotland, Wales, Sarei, Sassex, Essex, Yorkshire, without any such debate - this is the beauty of the fiscal union, of the real financial union - automatically, without intervening human, political, bureaucrat transfers from the richest regions to the poorest. You know that in Yorkshire unemployment is rising faster and much more money must be spent on unemployment benefits, while in Sarei it has not increased unemployment. Essentially through the tax system resources go from Sarey to Yorkshire, but there is no discussion without toxicity. Imagine for a moment that the UK was operating like the Recovery Fund. In other words, as the Prime Ministers, the Presidents of the Republic, in Brussels, had to gather in London, Edinburgh, no matter where - representatives of each region, in order to find out how to get money from the richer regions and transfer it to the poorest. Imagine what degrading that would be, how disastrous it would be for the solidarity of the United Kingdom! And even, imagine, they would agree that we will decide how much money Yorkshire will get before we know how much Yorkshire will be affected by the coronary. We'll predetermin the amount and then, when it's about to be disbursed, Sassex's spokesman, who didn't want to give anything to Yorkshire, can put a brake on ice for three months, and take off Yorkshire's books himself. Because that's what's gonna happen here. Mr. Rute will be here - he has the right to, he won - and he will say, "Come here, Mr. Stakoura, come here, Mr. Mitsotakis, to see where you'll spend the money. I don't like that. I do not believe that our money should be spent there." He has the right. You gave him the right for three months to freeze this. Then you or your Italian counterpart have every right to do the same for the Netherlands. Say, "Come here. You're a tax haven. All multinationals are taxed through the Netherlands.' In other words, do you know what I'm describing? That you have not created the Eurobond, not you have pushed the European Union closer to unification, but you have built an accelerator of the degradation of the European Union and you are coming and celebrating both New Democracy and SYRIZA. Summary: This you achieved with the Recovery Fund is an enhanced NSRF, in exchange for a pharmacological fifth Memorandum. That's the reality. Here the main question, having at least closed for at least now the question of what is going on in the European dimension, is as follows. I have tabled our assessment of both the state deficit and the recession. We will not agree, it is clear and there is no reason to agree. What matters is that we table our predictions to be judged by the citizens and our own conscience. But I would ask you, Mr Stakoura, today to respond very well from now on. I talked about a deficit that will trigger new Memorandum measures. You, who deny it, can answer me: What should be the deficit, as a percentage of GDP - tell me like this, as billions, does not matter - to tell the Greek people: 'Unfortunately, things have been much worse than we expected. We will impose measures on you." What should be next year, 2021, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 15%, 20%? What is the point of the deficit after which the Greek Minister for Finance will be addressing the Greek people - or perhaps it may have the Prime Minister do so - by saying that, unfortunately, measures are needed, the pensioners who took the retrospectives need now to undergo a reduction in pensions. Will you answer that question? What is this point above which the deficit triggers Memorandum measures? Something else: Will you resist the troika, when the troika - has no doubt about it, you know, I'm sure you've already lived it - comes to impose measures on you anyway? You will resist and what form will your resistance take? You will never veto or continue to reject it, as you did in March in the debate between us, that Greece does not practice its veto. Only Mr Route practices his veto and has the Prime Ministers and Presidents of all of Europe three days and three nights to serve the interests of a certain number of businesses in the Netherlands. To serve the interests of the Greek people, will you exercise the veto? I understand that on your part you are afraid that the European Central Bank, if you do this, can shut you down the neck of liquidity in the banks. They're familiar with this. It is something that reminds me that two weeks ago I asked the Prime Minister a timely question. Because, as you know, I hope you will be aware, although the media for some reason do not reproduce it - I am in the courts with the European Central Bank, against Mr Draghi specifically in the summer of 2015, when I learned through the European Central Bank that Mr Draghi in April 2015, preparing for the closure of the Greek banks - to remember who closed them - had paid a private legal office in Brussels to get an opinion on whether he was entitled to close the banks. I have asked that we see this opinion since it was paid with European taxpayers' money. Very recently, the Advocate General of the European Court of Justice made a decision which was very positive to my own and German MP Fabio De Massi, with whom we are together against the European Central Bank and, in fact, we are in favour of the European institutions, because we demand transparency. What did that law firm say? Is it legal for the European Central Bank to push you today - let me in 2015 - that if you do not apply a memorandum, if you do not reduce pensions to those you are now going to give retroactively, will it start to cut your liquidity? Does Mrs. Lagard now think to do this, as Mr. Draghi did in 2015? I asked Mr Mitsotakis this question: 'Do you agree, Prime Minister, that European citizens are entitled to know whether the private legal office has given an opinion that the interruption of liquidity in a banking system in a Member State is contrary to European law?' I asked him: "Do you realize, Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of Greece, that the publication of this opinion strengthens your own government in the face of the pressure you will now accept with the great government deficit? We are trying to strengthen you through the transparency that we demand. Will you stand by our judicial effort to give such an opinion to publicity?' Mr. Prime Minister didn't answer. I imagine you won't answer that either. SYRIZA didn't answer either. Why, SYRIZA's companions? Don't you want to know if it was legal to close the banks in 2015? SYRIZA's silence. I'm really going now. How we protect citizens, how you protect citizens. We're talking, our tongue has haird it - you know - for the abolition of these incredible foolish advances. The prime Prime Minister came before this Step and announced all great joy that he would reduce the advances and in the long term, in the future he could cut them off. Okay, are we serious? If it does not eliminate them now, which is a golden opportunity, which the whole of Europe would understand absolutely why we are canceling the tax advances, when you will do so. If not now, when, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? As far as tax rates are concerned, it is not possible, Mr Staikora, that Germany should reduce VAT, not just transfer goods and services from one factor to another, but take it from 19% to 16% and that we should not reduce it from 23% to 15% or 18% in the case of cash, reduce it to 13% from 16%. Congratulations, well done, for reducing VAT on partitions, music books. We're very happy, but we're going on. We have noted, as Mera25, since the first moment of the coronary that we have one and a half million Greeks and Greeks who are unpaid, they have not even received 800 euros, they will not get anything and we have asked to think very seriously about what had happened and in 2015 to provide debit cards, prepaid to families who do not have a fate in the sun. We insist on that. Nothing in this direction has been seen by your government. That would be a real protection, really unprotected of our fellow citizens. Renewals of collective agreements. I'm going from tourist area to tourist area. The hotel officials are shouting: 'They do not renew the collective agreements'. The other day, in the Presidential Palace, I was pleased to see you invited - Madam President, the government, I am not sure who - including representatives of the deliberates - to honour them for helping to keep the quarantine society up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u167	And not only the dealers but others.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u168	Yes, but I am referring to the delinquents for one particular reason, Mr Hatzidakis. Because there has been a collective agreement in Mr Brutsis's office for a long time now, which recognises them the right to exist, which recognises them the right to a minimum compensation if they fall out of the machine, are injured and cannot work. Mr. Brutsis doesn't sign this collective agreement. Will you get Mr. Brutsi to sign? It's a signature. You cannot have the dealers' representatives in the Presidential Palace and Mr Brutsi's signature absent from this paper, which is on his desk and is not dependent on anyone else, has passed through all the procedures. As I speak about specific professions, it is true that the so-called'scientific' benefits of lawyers, accountants, etc. - What are you doing? The Prime Minister had promised that the allowance would be granted in May. After the voucher fiasco, they took 600 euros, but are being called today, in these days, to pay a trade tax of EUR 650. And they have been excluded from the support for other professionals. One Secretary-General committed you, in reply to the Vice-President, that the matter of aid would be resolved in July. July's over. It's over. We do not propose, Minister, an amendment. We'll wait until the end of the debate. And we demand that you respect the Prime Minister's commitments. I now come to the most important string for the transmission and growth of the crisis, private debt. Yes, Greece has sinked under unsustainable public debt, but private debt competes in its disastrous work with public debt. Your "HERAKLIS", last but not least, Minister! You created a secondary market, starting with SYRIZA who took the first steps, and completed it last December with HERAKLI. It's the end of fantasy to think that this secondary market can work when the coronary and accelerating recession has multiplied the supply of red loans. You've got 20 billion people now frozen with the parole you've done. What percentage of these will begin to serve again after January? Very small. It's clear if you see the elements of the international experience. So this great increase in red loans on the secondary market called "HRAKLE" means a price collapse. In other words, we have a complete glimpse of the capital base of the banks that are forced to sell to the "parallel" funds. This story is over. In the quarantine we recently learned that we had first home auctions. Is that possible? A new tsunami of private debt feeds the beast of crisis. I will ask you a question that I have asked you in this Chamber before. I'll put it back because you didn't answer it to me. Will you freeze the EUR 16 billion of the state guarantee that you promised in the “parallel” funds in case they have no profits for the middle and high trains, which they should have according to the “HRAKLE”? We see economic development and it is with mathematical accuracy that you will give them 12 billion euros. There is also an interesting coincidence - I'm not saying, coincidence - what is the net amount from the development fund? It's 12,12. And you're going to go borrow from Mr. Regling and the Troika, from the ESM EUR 12 billion to give it to the "rapid" funds? What is your appreciation, will it be given? Have you made a move to prevent public debt from being given, so it doesn't have to be increased any more? To get these funds and get them out in Delaware and New Jersey! They won't fall into the Greek economy. Now I'm going to talk to you guys at SYRIZA. I saw the front page of the newspaper "The AUGI", weeping in the crocodile tears. I read: 'They leave the first residence uncovered'. I heard Mr. Tsipras before talking about the first residence. SYRIZA partners, there can be no protection of the first home while the loans continue to be sold by the banks to the funds. Do we understand that? You can't have any protection. The only way to protect them...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u169	You're talking thirty-two minutes about SYRIZA. Say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Colleague, let it be completed, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u171	You started selling red loans. Didn't you own the popular resistance against auctions? Do you dare talk about protecting the first residence? I'm sorry! You signed it. I'm sure you didn't want to do it, but you did. You're responsible. Without the establishment of a public management company for red loans, where it will be transported without being sold, frozen and we will have an end to this consolidation of the loan as long as the crisis lasts until there is a recovery and we have a new settlement. Without such a solution, which we call 'Ulysses', there will be no protection of the small and medium-sized enterprises, there will be no protection of the first residence, and there will be no end to the deterioration of the strengthening and feedback between the private debt and the public debt it is faced. In conclusion, I would like to say that every opposition party, whether big or small, has a sacred obligation at a difficult time towards the government and against the people to answer the question: 'If you were government what would you do'? Our answer is here. It is an integrated proposal that includes all of what I said about tax rates, about institutional areas, about 'Ulysses' instead of 'HRAKLI', about what we are going to do with public property. Because, in the form of a law, a proposal for a law, our proposal, we give you the opportunity to study it and tell us where we are wrong, to oppose our opposition. That means responsibility for us. I close by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that for us what is necessary - so I will say very briefly - is veto out, in the Council of Europe and in the Eurogroup, and in the work in hand. Workin' instruments for the real protection of citizens. Work on a sustainable development programme that replaces: the culture of exploitation of both people and the environment, with the culture of common green prosperity in Greece, Europe, in the Eastern Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. I'll call the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u173	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u174	Wait a minute, Mr. Comrade. Please. Why do you keep yelling in the Chamber? Wait a minute. Wait till you hear it. Wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u175	You're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u176	I'm telling you. Let me announce something. And if that doesn't satisfy you, then start shouting. So I'm saying I'm going to call the Minister in Step. And until the Step is cleared, I'll give you a minute. Then I'll give Mr. Karathanasopoulos two minutes to say something about a procedure. And soon after that, Mr. Katrinis will take the floor. Then we will enter the Members' list. Mr. Barca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the time. I'll only need ten seconds. I am tabling a document on the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It does not have any changes to the amendment, but it is a follow-up of documents on the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u179	Madam President, we also raised the issue of the amendments in the Conference of Presidents. They can only be five in the number of amendments, but they have about ten articles, mainly different from one another. In other words, we are talking about at least fifty amendments and some of them have come last minute. I shall mention, Minister, because you are the accomplice, the last amendment by the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Shipping, which has 16 articles. Of course, it has the temporary pension rate as long as it goes. It has in Article 13, for example, arrangements for debts of the Holy Cathedral of Athens, the Evangelism of Theotokou. And then there are three articles concerning, two of the three, the maritime movement: firstly, how the elections to maritime unions are to take place and, secondly, the abolition of the marine workers' collective agreement. What's the emergency if not what it says within Article 16? This amendment, he says, will apply to Greek ships, to vessels flying the flag of Greece for the lower crews, what is in force on foreign flags managed by Greece. In this way, he says, the competitiveness of the Greek register will be strengthened. Are you creating conditions literally a galley in force on vessels flying the flag of Liberia, flying the flag of Marshall Islands and on Greek ships flying the flag of Greece? So, you guys want to do a lot of galaxy conditions for seafarers? Is that something urgent that can't wait or have you brought it to "summer turtle" to sneak through? The specific provisions concerning the maritime movement must be withdrawn now. This is a total scandal! And you have a personal responsibility, Mr Minister, as the expedited, to withdraw these provisions now. It's a question of war literally! It's an unacceptable manipulation that is brutal when you make such a huge gift to shipowners. So take back these two provisions, if not all of the amendment, here and now. And we're asking you to be positioned right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start by tabling a series of legislative improvements. I think they'll be the first and last of the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u182	Please, take a photo and be distributed. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u183	The co-legislative ministers will come to support the provisions they have. I shall also refer to the part of the provisions which are involved in the Ministry of Finance. But you will allow me, before I enter the main body of my position, to make some references to a number of issues that have been raised. Let us make it clear that in an unprecedented health crisis, global crisis, exogenous, symmetrical, there are estimates, there are predictions and commitments. The country has not committed any specific budgetary commitments for 2020, nor for 2021, nor for the coming years after the last decision of the Eurogroup of April 2020, which has given budgetary margin to all countries, to all Member States, depending on the expenditure they will make, as the President of Mera25 quite rightly said, for automatic stabilisers or especially for the coronary to be excluded from any financial results. So Greece had not committed any specific commitments, like all the countries, the Member States of the Eurozone and Europe, for specific budgetary targets for 2021, nor the commitment to a balanced budget in 2021. There was indeed in April - these are the latest estimates - an estimate for a return to a primary surplus in 2021. But, as we have shown with the corresponding texts, these were the assessments. They can be changed because, as you can see, we also give other resources to the Greek economy, we add resources to judicial decisions, so the costs increase. After spending is increased, the primary or budgetary deficit is actually widened, so there are no such commitments. The course of the budgets at a pan-European level will be assessed by the process of tackling the health crisis. The fiscal adjustment - because there will be a budgetary adjustment in Europe in the future, in all the countries of Europe - will be a function of tackling the health crisis. So there are no specific budgetary targets for 2021. Second chapter, recession. I heard you ask me, some people say I'm not good at math, in numerical, because we change our assessments. I'm sorry, but we're talking about an unprecedented global economic crisis. If you look at large houses, European Central Bank, European Commission, International Monetary Fund, OECD, Member States of the euro area change their estimates. For example, the French Minister for Finance changed the estimate of the recession in his country to one month of 4%, 6%, 8%, 11%. What does that mean? That they are incapable of making safe predictions, or that there is very great uncertainty, which cannot be determined? Obviously the answer is the second. So it is quite possible that when we have better evidence than the course of implementation of the budget, better data on how the real economy is going, we should review our figures when we go close to tabling the preliminary draft budget. The truth is that the Ministry of Finance, as it was due at the end of April, as all European countries submitted their plans in the framework of the European Semester. And those projects obviously had quantitative indicators. And the quantitative indicators then showed for the country that it is estimated that it will have a recession of up to 8% in 2020. That's it for April 30th. Updated data as a Ministry of Finance, we don't have one. However, we have some updated information from the European Commission. The Prime Minister was quoted in the Minutes. What do these updated data say? They say that in the last two months Europe has estimated that the recession in Greece will not be 9.7%, it will be 9%. At the same time, Europe believes that at European level the recession will be deeper. So I can draw a conclusion from here, and I think it is a joint, reasonable conclusion: to reduce the depth of the recession in Greece and increase it in Europe, obviously the Greek Government did something right to cope with the depth of the recession. Especially when five countries come - in the previous estimates, in fact, during their own forecasts, we had the deepest recession - now they come and say that Greece has the fifth deepest recession. So I think that we can draw a conclusion from this. From the European Commission and not from the Greek Government's estimates that the last two months obviously have taken good policies to reduce the depth of the recession. I am tabling specific tables to which the Prime Minister referred. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the tables mentioned above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I heard one - if you want - a reasonable argument from the Chief of Staff Responsibility: 'But if you took them earlier, it would be the least the recession'. First of all, no one knew at the beginning of the crisis how much cash would be available or the period of lockdown in the Greek economy. When we started to face the economic crisis - I tell you very sincerely - we did not know how long the lockdown will last. We didn't know if we'd be able to get out on the market. Today I'm talking to you on other terms. We went out twice on the markets, borrowed in the crisis 5 million euros at a satisfactory interest rate. We went out and borrowed inshore bills lasting three, six months and one year of higher size but at a very low interest rate. Today we rejoined and borrowed close to zeros, but we got 2,000,000 more of them. Five and two is seven. These 7,000,000 euros have been used and used to meet the financial needs of the extended budgetary policies that we are implementing. And I come to a distinctive example. The Prime Minister gave the table on the allocation of sums made by the Treasury to the real economy on the basis of special-purpose compensation, not for workers, only for businesses and freelance professionals and the repayable advance. What did the opposition parties say? "Come in April and gave 3,000,000 euros to the repayable advance." We have also discussed this in committee. If we did that then, what evidence would we have available? The fall in turnover in March would have no more information available. So we would obviously give a lot more money to some, not many, businesses. Making the second returnee and incorporating it into the month of April and May - and I prejudge you that there will be a third returner that will incorporate in June and July - we have been more targeted at the companies in need. So we'll end up showing 3,000,000 euros, but where there's a need. Proof? In this table by the Prime Minister, if you make a sum of money, you will see that companies on the Greek islands have been given EUR 529 000 000 to date, which would not be given if the second returner did not have the characteristics we were talking about. Should I say it on other terms? Only the second returner, which is being completed tomorrow, gave businesses on the islands twenty-one thousand and fifty-one businesses, significant resources. Twenty-one thousand and fifty-one company on the islands got a second returnee, who wouldn't have taken if we followed what you suggested. So handling is correct and in the distribution of the measures. I have heard from the Chief of Officerial Response repeat an argument that was also an announcement by the party responsible for the Responsibility Party. Does he say that in fact with the strategy followed by the Prime Minister, with the statements that followed by the Minister of Finance, we are sure that we represent a southern country? Are we sure the Prime Minister was sitting on the right side of the negotiating table? I therefore make in the Minutes the statements made by some Prime Ministers and Finance Ministers: Giuseppe Conde, Prime Minister of Italy: 'Historical Day for Europe and Italy'. He probably represented the North, too. Roberto Gualtierri, Italian Minister for Finance: "Europe today responds to the call of history. An ambitious and consistent agreement'. Emmanuel McCrone: "Historical Day for Europe. A solid recovery plan was adopted.’ They all represent the North. Bruno Le Mer, my colleague, Minister for Finance of France: 'The agreement is the birth certificate of a new solidarity and a greener Europe'. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Antonio Costa, Portugal: 'Special instrument, excellent economic recovery'. Sanchez, Prime Minister of Spain: 'Historical agreement'. Nadia Calvino, Spanish Minister for Finance: 'Great agreement'. Well, I don't think they all represented countries in the North. Obviously, the agreement through compromises was a very good agreement for both Europe and Greece. I understand that the Qualified Opposition was and is ideologically confused. I understand he's in political triumph. Today it turns out they're in a geography. We will continue with responsibility and seriousness, with a sense of law and solidarity, without having to fight to get the country out of the crisis. Now I come to the nucleus of the bill. We continue as a Ministry of Finance consistently, methodically and responsibly our reform work, even under the difficult conditions created by the koroni pandemic. Indeed, these make it even more urgent for reforms to be introduced, with the aim of improving the economic environment in which citizens and businesses, workers and employers are active, and we are also taking a number of measures to address the adverse effects of the health crisis. On what pillars? Economic efficiency - social recompense. The draft law under discussion, as well as the amendments to which I shall refer, achieve these objectives: Firstly, incentives are being given. Incentives are given to pensioners who have a tax residence abroad, following the best European practices, to transfer their tax residence to Greece. They will be subject to an alternative tax on foreign income at a tax rate of 7%, for 15 years and with their exemption from the special solidarity levy. Secondly, the autonomous taxation of 10% of the financial parental benefits and donations from parents to their children is abolished in order to support their financial autonomy and, at the same time, to rekindle the property market. In view of the above, the Commission concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Fourthly, farmers and coastal fishermen shall be exempted for the tax year 2019 specifically from the obligation to pay a trade fee. Fifthly, the scheme of car registration fees for the majority of vehicles is more favourable, with the aim of renewing the current fleet of cars that are in circulation with new more environmentally friendly cars, a new system of progressive passenger car tax is also introduced, while further downwards the registration fee for hybrid cars. Sixth, the income of the employee or partner or shareholder shall not be counted against the shares allocated to him without consideration by any undertaking under a free-of-payment programme. The Minister responsible, Mr Vesiropoulos, will give concrete answers to unreasonable concerns raised by the Civic Opposition. In particular for the fiscal year 2020, the value of the inter-institutional tourism, of a total value of up to EUR 300, provided by employers, shall be exempted from any tax. The need for this provision to be introduced is considered necessary for the purpose of strengthening internal tourism. Seven, switch to the over-reduced VAT rate of 6% the music books. Eighth, it is at the reduced VAT rate of 13% of sports games' tickets - it is clear - from the beginning of September 2020 until the end of June 2021. Ninth, the list of species for which a tariff exemption is fixed, provided that they are intended for the supply or equipment of the vessels, and to meet the needs of those concerned, shall be extended. Tenth, a Committee on the Out-of-court Resolution of Excise Tax Disputes is hereby set up before the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts, with a view to resolving these disputes quickly, de-coupling administrative justice and stimulating tax revenue. Eleventh, general government bodies are grants for the repayment of outstanding debts. Amendment orders from the Ministry of Labour, to which Mr Karathanasopoulos referred in the first part, concern the quickest repayment of pensions, thus reducing the dues of the Ministry of Labour. Twelfth, the Greek State is guaranteed to the institutions and agencies of the European Union, so that Greece can participate in the European Investment Bank's Pan-European Guarantee Fund recently decided to strengthen liquidity in the real economy. Third, there are provisions and incorporation of directives on the establishment of a tax dispute resolution mechanism at European Union level. Fourthly, as we were committed, a package of measures is introduced to prevent and tackle physical violence against auditors from the Independent Public Income Authority and the Ministry of Finance in the performance of their duties, such as those which have unfortunately been observed in recent years, with the latest incident in the Kozani DU. We quickly moved with the AIA and legislate. Fourthly, it is envisaged, on the occasion of this case again, that all costs of hospitalisation and the recovery of ADP staff who have suffered physical injury or health damage should be covered, due to an attack on them during and in connection with the performance of their duties. Sixteenth, stricter fines are imposed in cases where infringement or counterfeiting or interference is found in any way in the operation of tax electronics. In the seventh, it is extended until 31 March 2020 - and the Minister of Tourism wanted it - the payment of VAT that has been confirmed by the debit statements for traders with the company "THOMAS COOK". We are firmly close to the businesses that have been affected by the collapse of this company. Eighteenth, it is best dealt with - and there are relevant communications - the chronic 10-year problem of the damage to the insurance group "ASP PROMOTION". The private-life guarantee fund is activated, which contributes with EUR 20 million - these are available - to be made available exclusively to legal beneficiaries of life insurance. I also cover the amendments like this. Nineteenth, it is granted as a minimum reward for their offer life-long monthly provision of EUR 200 from 1 August 2020 to Greek soldiers who participated in the events that took place in Cyprus in the years '64, '67 and '74. With this initiative, just as the Pan-Hellenic Association of Warriors of Cyprus - precisely - and with the same amount of money - I have heard some concerns - the Government is in fact proving that it recognizes the struggles and honors the offering of all those who have fought in the front line for defending the nation and the country. Finally, 20, a support programme is introduced through the public contribution to repayment of loans with collateralists at the main home to borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the krone. On this point, I will insist a little more, despite the fact that I have tabled a number of documents and documents before us, in fact repeating what I have said and in committee, so that we all know the reality. Because in this Chamber we must speak with responsibility, with seriousness, with evidence and realism. In particular: First, since February 2019, there has been no protection of first residence. I filed it in the Minutes. He's at your disposal. There has been no protection of the first residence since February 2019. Protection of the first residence began with the adoption of Law 3869/2010 by means of a judicial procedure. At the end of 2015, the Government of SYRIZA agreed to terminate the protection of the first residence and introduced Law No.4346/2015, which expired on 31 December 2018. In accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Finally, the protection of the first residence ended in February 2019 by the government of SYRIZA. I will repeat, what I said before, statements by the then Minister for Finance, which claimed that electronic auctions are important, not only to have good banks, in contrast to what the President of his party supported, but also to have development and social reasons. Second truth. So far - and we all know - tens of thousands of cases remain pending, due to the accumulation of the peace tribunals. There is no colleague in this Chamber, over and above parties, who do not know about it. A large number of cases are dismissed when they arrive at the courts, either because the citizen is not eligible or because it is found that he had no financial weakness. The protection granted by the Katseli Act was therefore temporary and simply transfer the problem at a later date, i.e. in the adoption of the court ruling. So - and you know - they took advantage of this framework and the so-called strategic poor payers, to get time without paying, because of the delays in the courts. Also - and you know that - the Katseli law, for those who defend it, provided adjustment of the loan. In other words, the citizen had to pay the instalments that the court laid down in the bank to rescue his home. Third truth. Subsequently, L.4605/2019, to which Mr. Tsipras referred, was indeed activated in July 2019. He gave protection for how long? For six months - I tabled it in the Minutes - covering - attention - a limited perimeter of borrowers. We're wrong to say that there was protection of the first residence for everyone. There were income criteria, assets criteria and only the ‘reds’ until the end of 2018. It is appreciated - you have asked me in committee and I was very honest - that the banking system could possibly benefit some ninety thousand borrowers. And in this case, however, the law made adjustments to the loan. In other words, the citizen had to pay the value of his home at the bank so that he could keep it. Fourth truth. As we said, Law 4605/2019 lasted for six months. It was 31-12-2019. The current Government, the Government of New Democracy, extended its duration, which was initially for six months, by an additional seven months, up to 31-7-2020. At the same time, he identified a number of problems in the application of the law. He said Mr. Tsipras failed the plan because we didn't make any improvements. Twelve improvements in the draft law, the law we found from SYRIZA. Twelve! And the Qualified Opposition voted for them. Like, for example, the deposit of numerous documents that the citizen was unable to produce. We also healed this malfunction. Fifth truth. Despite the many important improvements in the law we have found and improved, as we have said, as well as in the immediate activation of the state subsidy for the protection of our vulnerable compatriots, the protection framework - the political leaders here said, the Prime Minister and Mr Tsipras - does not have the expected results. I shall submit to the minutes the latest information given to me by the Secretariat-General of Private Debt. From July 2019 until last week, five thousand two hundred seventy-five applications were submitted. Of these applications, more than half have already been submitted by banks - loan managers - proposals for regulation. On this issue of applications on the first home platform, because compatriots raise issues with the General Secretariat of Private Debts today, yesterday, I suppose, too, you and me - the law stipulates that the application should be accompanied by certain specific elements and has been submitted by 31 July. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Ministry of Finance, however, understood the anxiety of the borrowers who wanted to take advantage of this framework, even at the last minute, decided and allowed those applications to be submitted until 31 July and found in the drawing up of data by the banks and the public. Conclusion: Protection of the first residence for the entire Greek society ended on governance SYRIZA in February 2019. Also, it did not give definitive protection to everyone, but on the contrary, those who were rejected were faced with accumulated debts. He succeeded in this situation a temporary protection framework that was not for everyone, but was for a small perimeter of borrowers, which we too extended for a longer period than what SYRIZA had given. Here we go. And what are we going to do today? Looking carefully at the situation that we have received and the dynamics within this year, we are doing something essential for the final settlement of private debt. First of all, we have identified that the most sustainable solution for maintaining the first home is to regulate the debt with the financial operator or administrator, in a way that takes into account, obviously, the financial situation of the borrower and its compliance with a repayment plan. In other words, just as they did all the protectionist legislative frameworks I have spoken about. In this way, the direct arrangements with the debtors were encouraged by coordinated ongoing operations with the banks. For example, the Prime Minister has said this - about five and a half thousand applications have been made on the platform that we have built. Two hundred and seventy thousand citizens, at the same time this year, went to banks or servers and set EUR 13 billion bilaterally, including those who have the first home from behind. So many banks, many servers set citizens in two hundred and seventy thousand loans. This is a positive fact which we welcome and which we want for the benefit of society to support even more. Thus, citizens practically saved their home because they adjusted and paid their debts. And they paid their debts, because this year - in fact, until the health crisis broke out - we gave them this possibility, both in both procedural and financial terms, by improving their available income, since we have had constant reductions in taxes and other charges. That was one initiative to help citizens in the same context. The Treasury has come to support the citizens' efforts to make a regulation deal with the bank and to keep it to rescue their residence. This is included in the provisions of the draft law. We have been subsidising for nine months all housing and business loans, with a mortgage on the main home of those affected by the health crisis, and we have developed in the committee what these accusations are. For all these categories of people affected, we provide a subsidy for both service and non-persistent loans. For the first time in the government, he comes to subsidise the dose of an up-to-date borrower for a long time, for nine months and even brave. You were telling me, when we talked about this in this House, before we legislated, it would be over 50%? And today you see that today we are subsidising the monthly instalment of the loan to be served by 90% in the first quarter. That is to say, it is very simple to say, if an up-to-date borrower had 100 euros, he pays 10 euros and his state pays 90 euros for three months, after 80 euros, after 70 euros. For nine months practically the state takes the loan on its own, to help both the informants and the'red' borrowers. Because today SYRIZA remembered in the amendment that he has had the red loans so far by the end of 2018, and now he says that we will put in the amendment and all those who have been 'broken' later on. He had forgotten them, of course, then, and later in 2019. In addition, in non-performing loans, we extend the perimeter. You're gonna tell me, seeing this, what did SYRIZA do? He tabled a late amendment and broadens the criteria of the platform he created with more limited criteria. Today, in other words, seeing what the government is legislating, it comes up and carries the scooters and says: we have broadened criteria. For example, to get a comparison of what we are doing and what SYRIZA has legislated for. We call the rest of the loan not to exceed 250,000 euros. SYRIZA said - not what he says today -130,000, that's what he legislated. Family income does not exceed 45,000. SYRIZA voted 36,000. The testimonies don't exceed 25,000. SYRIZA voted for 15,000. Total real estate does not exceed 500,000. SYRIZA had voted for 280,000. I am now talking about comparable borrowers, about'red' borrowers by the end of 2018. So we put much more'red' after 2018 and all the 'green' with the features I mentioned to you. In conclusion, we achieve multiple objectives. For the first time, consistent borrowers with servicing loans shall be remunerated. It supports all borrowers affected by the health crisis and have a non-performing loan even after the end of 2018. Bilateral agreements with financial institutions and debt management companies shall be encouraged and strengthened. The culture of payments is cultivated with the practical support of the state, since we are subsidising an important part of the monthly instalment of the loan. It prevents the misuse of the new framework by strategic malpractices. The risk of creating a new generation of'red' loans is limited because of the pandemic crisis. Social cohesion is strengthened, as multiple borrowers are covered in relation to the previous government. And of course, why is it a bridge? It is a bridge, because we are working and will soon be consulting a new institutional framework for debt regulation, as SYRIZA said it will do, after abolishing, at the end of 2019, any framework for partial protection of first homes, a new institutional framework that will replace all the individual debt regulation instruments that exist today, a framework for the settlement of debts and bankruptcy of natural and legal persons that will include the possibility of total regulation and restructuring of all debts, the possibility of exempting all debts, the provision of a second chance for debtd borrowers, who are unable to serve their debts and welfare, on the one hand for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups and on the other to identify the strategic misappropriators. But yes, there will be many predictions for sensitive social groups. I am sorry for the abuse of time, Madam President, but I am trying to answer all the questions raised and the amendments, so that I do not come back. The rapporteur from Mera25, I think, began by taking half of his time to the initiative that we are taking for the Legal Council of State. I have to repeat or add some elements, because it seems that everyone is not watching what we have voted on in Greece. According to Dr. 238/2003 the filling of the chairs of judges of the Legal Council of State is carried out by means of a competitive procedure. I shall submit the relevant text in the Minutes. The notice shall indicate, inter alia, the number of posts. For the final result of the tender, a scoreboard of successful tenderers shall be drawn up in a ranking order. Appointing those who have achieved the invitation to tender shall be in accordance with the order of inclusion in the table. Positions vacant or recommended within one year following publication of the successful table shall be covered by the table and in their order of registration. That's probably not what some people in the law noticed. It is therefore foreseen that the ranking of the Legal Board of the State is to be carried out by means of a successful tender for the number of posts provided for in the notice. Further needs under the successful list may be met only within one year of the publication of the list. Regular tendering obligation is not provided for in the current legislation. It is obvious that this process serves to serve the service of the Law Council of the State with the most competent staff force following a worthwhile and transparent competitive procedure. The long-standing - I stress - extension of the classification table is at risk - and I think we will all agree here - to circumvent the purpose and the existing legislation governing the functioning of the Legal Council of State, excluding from the competitive process those who are interested in participating in it on equal, transparent terms, unless that is what you want. In 2018, the Law Council of the State opened an invitation to tender for the filling of fifty-six empty organic posts. The successful scoreboard was published on 24-2-2019. The power of the table according to what we said and with the law, the presidential decree, would expire on 11-4-2020. In view of the fact that in March the country experienced unprecedented conditions due to the health crisis, without at that time being able to conceive with relative certainty the development of the facts, it was considered necessary to extend the list of successful tenderers for the tender by one year, as you have said, in order to cover the direct operating needs of the State's Legal Board. This extension was implemented by a Ministerial Decision regulating in general the matters of operation of the Law Council of the State, as had emerged from COVID-19. This decision also had the legislative basis of the act of 20 March 2020. I'll submit both documents to the Minutes. It was therefore a complete exceptional measure aimed at dealing with exceptional and unforeseen circumstances. Taking into account the development of the Treaties and the facts and the gradual lifting of the restrictive measures imposed in June, a communication was made with the President of the Legal Council of State in order to identify the immediate needs of the Legal Council of State. I shall submit to the minutes the reply of the President of the Council of State. In his letter he says that the needs amount to ten recruitment places and the payment of four organic posts resulting from the departure of a Vice-President of the Legal Council of State and of the three legal advisers of the state. Therefore, as the document says, the needs of the Legal Council of State up to 12-4-21 amounted to fourteen. Ten of them have already been launched by ministerial decision since last week and have been covered. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Subsequently, compliance with the legislation in force, with the principles of good administration, as well as the application of the transparent legal choice rules to serve the Legal Council of the State, indicated the shortening of the extension period, which, as has been said, is an exceptional, exceptional measure in the absolutely necessary time. That is why it was limited, because you asked me, the extension of the ranking table to 30-9-2020. We have covered the positions that the President of the Legal Council said are basically the positions they need by April 2021. It is therefore - and I close - that participation in such an important competitive process entails a great deal of effort and personal costs. However, participation in it is carried out and must be carried out, I know that it is in line with what is specified in e.g. 2388/2003. That is to say, on the one hand, to cover the positions in respect of which the relevant notice has been issued and on the other hand, any further use of the list for position coverage may not exceed one year from its publication. This information is well known to all those involved in the competition procedure. It is true, however, that the lack of periodicity in the awarding of tenders gives rise to insecurity and burdens the personal costs which are undoubtedly borne by all those who are toiling for their introduction into the College of the Legal Council of State. However, the same insecurity is experienced by those who expect to participate in a competition on the Legal Council of State and who have not participated to date or have failed. To restore this uncertainty, therefore, the Treasury intends to examine, in cooperation with the Head of the Law Council of the State, the introduction of a provision for periodic tenders at regular intervals, probably every two years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Finance last month has brought to the vote three important bills, bills that promote the government's reform agenda. In such a short time we have been carrying out legislative work, which successfully contributes to supporting the labour market, boosting business liquidity, attracting new investments and strengthening social cohesion. But the government doesn't stop here. This will continue with responsibility, seriousness, above all with social sensitivity and away from populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, too, Minister. The President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Varoufakis, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u185	Minister, it is your honour that we refused to answer two key questions I raised. Firstly, I asked you to commit, if you can commit, by looking at the pensioners' eyes, to whom you will return the retrospective, in accordance with the decision of the Council of State, that next year you will not reduce their pensions. You have not responded to that, which is something that honors you, because I know very well that they will oblige you to do so. Nor do you reply to the second question about the 12 billion public guarantees in the funds, the funds, which buy'red' loans. I would remind the other Members that the question was whether you consider that this money will be forced to be borrowed from the troika, from the ESM, to give it to the funds afterwards, to leave this money abroad. You do not answer, because you still cannot commit something that is under way. But there was an inaccuracy of what you said and which is also a question of interpretation. But you will allow me my interpretation. You said you did not have commitments for 2020 and 2021. I understand you mean it. On the other hand, on 11 June you signed a joint communiqué at the Eurogroup, which I tabled in the Minutes of the House. This is what the English text refers to - because, as you know, in the years of the memoranda, it is only the English text that has power, legal and political power, not the Greek - and not the English - that the European Commission, and of course the Eurogroup, should be a surplus. The word ‘explect’ is not the same as the word ‘predict’. It's not that he appreciates, it's not that he's counting, it's what he's waiting for. When Lord Nelson just before the Battle of Trafalgar told his sailors that England expects you to do your duty, that was not the prediction, Mr Stagira, but enforcement, that this is what you will do. This was signed at the Eurogroup on 11 June. You may not understand, but you committed yourself. And you know, in the troika - I'm going to use a "Englishism" translated - you give them an inch and they take a mile. You are already committed to this and will be subject to the new Memorandum if you are not prepared to veto the citizens of that country who do not have and will not have the opportunity to survive a new Memorandum of Understanding, which is unfortunately set out. And finally, a comment to the Prime Minister rather than to you, Mr Stakoura. You also mentioned as a development measure reducing the tax rate for foreign pensioners who will come to live in Greece. We don't have a lot of objections to that. It's not what makes me sad. What makes me sad is that from where we were once sad, we were saddened that Greece's development model was to become Europe's wardrobes, now you want to make us the home of Europe. And you are presenting this as a development measure. Not on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u186	Thank you too, Mr. Varoufakis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u187	Mr Varoufakis, we have discussed European decisions several times. No specific commitment to a specific financial objective has been made by the Greek Government and by the Greek Minister of Finance at Eurogroup and ECOFIN. On the contrary, thankfully - I appreciate - we did not follow the recommendations we had from opposition parties. What were you telling us at the beginning of the crisis? We have a target of 3.5% primary surplus this year and you were telling us: go to Europe and claim 3.5% this year to become 2% primary surplus. We didn't. Because if we were to go and claim 2% of the primary surplus, today we would not talk about everything we are talking about, because you know that the country will return to a primary deficit. The country will therefore have a primary deficit, because with the European decisions we have taken, each country, each Member State will be given the opportunity to spend or implement policies based on specific axes, specific rules and specific forecasts. Don't repeat them. You showed them up. And there I want to tell you, because you know very well from negotiations, that it was a success for Greece, the two of the three words that entered the communiqué. Why did the first word have, as you said, if you remember? He had the word rules, the financial rules. Greece, however, has no financial rules, because of the enhanced supervision that the SYRIZA government has us, has objectives, and we went and put party (,) and the word "targets", so that no one comes in the future and says that all the other Europe will move differently than Greece. Greece therefore has the same degrees of flexibility in its budgets and in 2020 and 2021, which will have any European country to deal with the health crisis with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Varoufakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u189	Just a simple word, Mr. Stakoura. The target word is there. You put rules next party(,) targets. The country is therefore subject to the rules of the European Union, obviously, and to the objectives of the Fourth Memorandum, in which, quite rightly, you said - SYRIZA put us in.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u190	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u191	It is obvious today, if you have seen, that there is an extension of the enhanced supervision - customary - for six months. It's the classic request that's made. The country is under enhanced supervision, the country has specific budgetary targets of 3.5% for specific years in 2020 and 2021, I tell you first of all we could talk about 2022, but there is very great uncertainty today. There are some thoughts at European level. We talked next time, is there the Fiscal Board saying what? There are no fiscal targets in Europe until growth has reached the point where it was in 2019, and Europe considers this to be the case in 2022. So he tells you by 2022 to see it. But I will not stay in a study that has been discussed at the Eurogroup. I repeat: the reading that you should have done is exactly the opposite, that precisely because we had a target of 3.5%, we will have the same flexibility as the one who had rules. We had target, they had rules. We have exactly the same flexibility and you should have had a positive reading. That is why we can and can do all these policies and I tell you that we will do other policies for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u192	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u194	Madam President, what is this? I've been asking for the floor for so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u195	You'll be waiting, Minister. You're very welcome. He's a party leader, and I think he can talk. Mr Varoufakis, you have a minute and we close the debate here.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u196	I'm gonna need less than a minute. Mr Stavura, I would be closer to you than you said, if you hadn't made the mistake of letting the primary surplus of 2021 be reported in the communiqué of 11 June. You should not accept, you should have deleted it because that is an indirect but clear commitment. And anyway, you haven't answered whether you're going to cut off pensions or if you're committed not to cutting them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrinis, has the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we will immediately be on the list. You will have seven minutes of speaking time. There are forty colleagues who need to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, I would like to speak as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u199	Wait, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u200	Madam President, I asked for the floor before...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u201	You didn't ask for him. Mr. Katrinis has asked for the floor for two hours. Please, therefore, you will expect Mr Katrinis to finish, I will give you the floor to put you on your amendment. Others have asked for the floor, and then we will be on the list. Please, I have a list, and I know how to keep the process. Here you have the floor, Mr. Catarini.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope that Mr Stagiras did not envy the glory of Mr Georgiadis the other day when he abused the Rules of Procedure and the tolerance of both the Bureau and the colleagues did speak 15 times in total for over an hour and a half. And at some point, the ministers themselves should be limiting themselves or, at least, summarizing their answers to dentistry and not considering that whenever there is a reference to their name, they should necessarily be responded. And I say this out of respect to my fellow Members, because it has been six hours and not even one colleague has spoken. And this is not the first time that this has been happening in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I could, of course, begin with the degression of the situation after the tenor of tension due to Turkey's unprecedented provocation, of course, which leaves no room for vigilance and is certainly not offered for celebrations, as some of our colleagues in the coup d'état rushed to formulate. And I am glad to hear the Prime Minister speak of the need to fund the Armed Forces' Intellectual Property. It is precisely the reason why we did not vote in favour of the reduction in the budget of the Ministry of National Defence in December when we said that in this stage of tension, it was a false signal and substantial and semantic and that further financial support for the Armed Forces is needed. On the basis of the statements made by Mr Erdogan's representative, however, we state very clearly that there are no controversial areas and, secondly, that there is only one issue of dialogue on our national issues: the definition of maritime zones. There is no secret agenda and secret diplomacy. Here again, the question arises about the usefulness of the Berlin meeting, when we wanted to convince Europeans of the imposition of sanctions. We in the Change Movement first called for the convening of a Council of Political Heads, precisely to send out this necessary message of national unity to our partners and also to our neighbours, which is happening today in Cyprus. And, of course, we have asked for it because we believe that there must be cooperation and national dialogue on both national issues and development issues, which are the common objective of all of us. It is a question of democracy and also of efficiency. So what are we asking? We are calling for initiatives at diplomatic level and not for us to follow developments and challenges by making fragmentary and retrospective moves, which is unfortunately taking place in recent months and, in the same way, we are calling for initiatives to be taken for a productive reconstruction plan for our country of inspiration and origin, and not for suggestions to be followed, as has happened during the years of the crisis. The Prime Minister spoke about the resources from the Recovery Fund and the NSRF, and it is indeed an important decision, even though it is not the first target we had, which was the Eurobond issue. And of course it has been a great opportunity to have this dialogue and this debate on money that will shape the country's agenda in the next few decades, as long as they are also properly exploited and in good time. The government seems to be trying to manage this situation by itself. We have listened with interest today to the position of the Prime Minister, who has committed that both in Parliament and with the institutional, social and economic partners will have the dialogue. I hope there will be sufficient time to have a substantial debate. Because a government which, until now, had absorbed the NRP at 35%, and only for the sake of flexibility and resource mobility, reached 55% cannot obviously convince it has a plan and has rapid absorption mechanisms. And the Prime Minister can assure us that the absorption of these funds will not be accompanied by terms of either a memorandum or strict supervision, as has been done in the recent past, but by the Minister's speech I am not sure - and since it has been said that there will be a financial adjustment - that something similar will also be done in relation to the country's economic situation. Because black clouds thicken around the indicators of the Greek economy. A two-digit downward downward trend, unemployment which will exceed 20%, budgetary deficit of ECU 9.2 billion, will be close to or even exceeding the two-digit rate. In the first half of 2020, with a revenue deviation in June of EUR 569 million, with the market open - certainly the Ministry announced a positive deviation, so the Ministry said yesterday, 64 million in relation to the updated target, which was drawn up but never published - reduced revenues from the Public Investment Programme, and in July it is expected that the situation will be the same bad one. At the same time, expenditure is rising by EUR 2.7 billion. As far as retrospectives are concerned, we have asked for the decision to be implemented in good time in all the retrospectives eligible for pensioners and we will insist until this decision is implemented. And because I have heard the Prime Minister speak of liquidity measures and successes in the real economy, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the liquidity measures announced by the government did not reach the real economy. Seven out of ten companies were excluded from the outset because of the strict criteria adopted by the Government. Indeed, I remember that in a question that we asked early April about the strict criteria set by the banks and which the government had accepted, the Minister for Development was proud to tell us that we cannot support the batters and those who were not okay with the credit obligations. And today the government comes to bring this statement to light and to subsidise the instalments of these loans it called three months ago. In total, therefore, less than 20% of actual requests in TPIX and the Guarantee Fund will be met with a financial gap of EUR 10 billion. Indeed - we have seen it from the outset, Minister - the repayable advance was the only measure reached in the real economy. And we said so because we saw the failure of the banking tools you set off and told you from the beginning of May to increase the repayable advance by at least EUR 1 billion because of the failure of the liquidity tools and not because we wanted you to give them all forward, as you have always said, but it was never said by the Change Movement. And we are talking about a donation that has a loss of turnover of more than 50 billion at the risk of locking up for one in three small and medium-sized enterprises. The ministers are constantly talking about measures. The Minister of Finance has given us fifty-nine meters in the recent question. The Minister for Development has shared billions of euros of television. So have the Minister for Rural Development, who have not seen farmers and farmers so far. And the Minister of Health announces dozens of doctors hired, which regional hospitals see with the chili. An announcement and communication bombing. In all this we are discussing a bill which is based on development and tax and which consists of several heterogeneous provisions with the rain of a sample of poor legislation. For example, I will say for an amendment that is excluded from the Act of Ministerial Council and you are removing the restrictions of the CSCE to strengthen the EBRD. It is correct for all those who gave the battle to Cyprus from '67 to '74, and we support it and consider it fair and should have been acted upon. And of course it is a bill that our rapporteur, Mr Constantopoulos, very thoroughly analysed the points of agreement and disagreement. As far as the tax advance reduction is concerned, we have been proposing it first for three months. We have said 100% reduction in the directly affected and 50% reduction in all businesses. The suspension of the trade fee for farmers is a good measure, but we should also see the gradual reduction of the trade fee for professionals as well as the solidarity levy. And, of course, despite the explanations you have tried to give, Minister, to the successors of the Legal Council of State, I think that there is a bitter taste for the sudden change of course. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make a special reference to an issue which I think is a test of the sensitivity of the political system and is the issue of first residence. In two days' time, for the first time in ten years in Greece, there will be no framework for protection of even limited first homes and no extension will be granted for the suspension of auctions. So, because the government is recommending this and the majority Members will vote for it, they should know that for the first time since 2010 - I repeat - there will be no extension in Greece, there will be no first-stage protection framework, even limited, and no suspension of auctions ending at 31-07-2020. The New Democracy has abandoned the suspension of auctions. In addition, the Minister for Development announced it - and you remember - at the beginning of February that the auctions should be opened in exchange for the last evaluation by the institutions, the approval of the return of profits from the anfas and smps that are 748 million euros. The Mitsotakis Government, having refused the establishment of an intergroup for the protection of first residence, - a proposal tabled by the Change Movement and agreed on all the other parties - is now setting wide-ranging signatures to a bill that really opens Halos's shoulder and assumes political responsibility for everything that has been unfolding since October with mass property auctions, which have already been scheduled. It is six and a half thousand so far and is calculated from valid sources that there will be an addition of twenty-five thousand auctions. It effectively abolishes the concept and value of the protection of the first home, and soon follows the bankruptcy code, which officially converts thousands of owners to tenants of their homes. And since the government is talking about abuse of Law 3869, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that with Law 4161/13 with Minister Hatzidakis, instead of a judicial decision to be subject to the protection regime of Law 3869, of the PASOK Act, which SYRIZA had not voted - with a simple request, then the borrowers could have been placed under the protection regime. So the New Democracy is not talking about cheating and some people who abused the law when she brought this provision into this Chamber. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] The protection of the first residence, which, as I said, was applied by the PASOK government, was abolished and restored with Mr. SYRIZA’s 4605 and failed debt adjustment platform. The first time we were shouting that this law is a failure, and the platform is completely ineffective. It was very strict to exclude the vast majority of borrowers, and it also restricted the beneficiaries to 31-12-18. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. The New Democracy Government adopted the platform, extended it to up to 31-7-2020, and for a year it has been trying to convince us of its effectiveness, which has led to all two thousand arrangements in a perimeter of ninety thousand beneficiaries. On 11 November we tabled an amendment to reintroduce the provisions of Law 3869, with updated criteria and the right to purchase loans before they end up in funds. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You rejected it and the government insists on the platform. On 11-12 in the Hercules bill, the Change Movement will reintroduce the amendment - I table it - to No.3869, which you also reject. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are reintroducing an amendment on 23 April calling for the extension of the protection of main residence until the end of 2020 with L.3869 with updated criteria, with the extension of Law4605/2019 and protection of agricultural property. You are also rejecting it and giving a simple extension of Law4605 by 31 July, which SYRIZA asked for. And while SYRIZA then asked for a simple extension of Law 4605, which is a fully failed law and its platform gave no solution to it, it today comes back with a different amendment, apparently in a confession of failure of the law that he himself recommended and did not bring any results. The Government has shown itself as an adversary to the auctions and the abolition of first home protection, the grant programme for nine months for borrowers who have suffered the consequences of the krone. Except that it also excludes and unfairs cases such as firefighting and borrowers in Elias and other areas that have not only been supported but have been waiting for nine months for the arrangement that Mr. Skylakakis has promised in writing. I say in the Minutes that 26 November promises the government to regulate the issue of first loans. And after eight months - and we are talking about tax bills - no proposal and a solution. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The government, then, delivers borrowers without any protection to the funds and banks, to regulate their loans, while no provision does for guarantors who raise their own Golgotha, and, obviously, the government feels that borrowers and, in particular, those who drive to auction will find the money to regulate their loans with the recession at 10%, with unemployment at 20% and the economy in the crisis, when 50% of non-performing loans have already been denounced and the remaining 25% is late for over 90 days. And all that before the coronary crisis. You are making these laws today, while, according to estimates of the "red" loans over the next two years, it will increase between 8 and 10 billion, with the Bank of Greece advocating an assessment of the growth of the "red" loans and propose the creation of a bad bank, which you are stubbornly denying, even risking through your State Secretary, Mr. Zavvos, that there will be a deposit haircut, which has been expressly disproved by the Bank of Greece. And you're trying to convince us about normalising the situation with thousands of loan arrangements. In fact, the Prime Minister himself spoke of two hundred and seventy thousand loan arrangements when in her report the Bank of Greece - I submit it in the Minutes - in June 2020 he says that two out of three short-term arrangements are resetting within three months. So that is what thousands of regulations are you talking about, which will be the counterweight to the abolition of first home protection? [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You are therefore bringing in a regulation on the pretext of supporting borrowers, in particular with a view to preventing further 'blue-backing' of loans, and in practice to support the banking system, despite the supervisory flexibility of the European Central Bank in the treatment of non-performing loans which was extended up to April 2021. You are talking, in fact, about a perimeter occupying all those who have been damaged by the coronary when two or three long-term unemployed have not taken any support and are therefore excluded from this measure. And suddenly you talk about uninformed borrowers, whom you called batters, and you ruled them out from all the liquidity instruments, except the repayable advance, as if they never went through ten years of unprecedented crisis. Instead of applying the code of conduct for banks and restructuring loans, as required by the code, to informed borrowers who face difficulties, you are basically coming to support this inaction. We, ladies and gentlemen, have a different perception of the issue of first residence protection. You very simply implement what recently mentioned the head of a large investment, when asked about the new age on the real estate, that there must be an interconnection between banking and brokering networks. That's what you're doing. That is what you are doing, and, of course, we are against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u203	Mr Augenakis, State Secretary for Sport, has the floor for the amendment for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u204	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister of our country and the staff of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, Christos Staikouras, for two provisions that were adopted and today were announced by Stepa, both by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. Of course. And I am referring to the reduction of VAT on all sports tickets from 24% to 13% and to the assimilation of coach taxes, as well as to athletes. I enter very quickly on a subject that again involves the Ministry of Finance, and I refer to the Register of Sports Bodies. The register while there is with L.4353/2016, which has been established and provides for the operation of the online register of all amateur sports clubs, has never been activated. But we did it, we did it. On the other hand, we announced in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, following the approval and encouragement of our own Prime Minister, the strengthening of the amateur sports clubs in Greece with 12 million euros for the first time after too many years. It is an aid, which comes directly from the state to amateur clubs without intermediaries, but with criteria known in the next few days and related to the number of athletes, with the number of coaches by extension, and of course the sections active in each club that has been registered in the Register of amateur Associations. Because we firmly believe that amateur sport is a core of team social action, a cell of volunteering. That is why it is absolutely essential and an obligation for the government to support amateur sport and, more generally and as a matter of priority, athletes, leading athletes and Olympics in Greece. I am entering the second provision, which concerns the antiquities of sports federations for the year 2020. According to Law 2725/1999, the elections to promote the boards of federations are held in the last four months of the year of the Olympic Games. But this year, as we know, everything has gone back. So, pending the draft law which has already been passed by the Ministerial Council - as I have already been informed by the General Secretariat of the Government, the next week it will be consulted and which will come to Parliament at the end of August - we announce the appointment of November - as a two-month term for the elections of the sports federations of our country, on the one hand, and, on the other, we are giving a three-month extension to the administrations of the sports federations of Greece. Mediterranean Games Expenditure. It is a loose end which we have certainly inherited, but we have successfully completed. The games took place last summer. The administration, the organizing committee, to which we have commissioned to complete and complete these struggles, will be called upon by this provision to successfully complete the repayments from these struggles and transparently. And finally, a professional sport committee. This article extends for up to three months, i.e. until 16-11-2020, the term of office of the Professional Sports Committee. That extension is deemed necessary, as the term of office of the Committee is completed in 15 days, i.e. at a time when, in view of the forthcoming start of professional championships for the 2020-2021 season, the Committee will be in the process of processing the dossiers for the award of the certificates referred to in Article 77a. However, I just want to say that we are already working on a provision, which will be added to the draft law that will come into consultation in the next few days. It will change the scope of this committee, which we so far regard as obsolete and extremely problematic, as it has shown itself in the recent past. That is why the mandate of this administration is being extended, to complete its work on the one hand and, on the other, to bring in a provision that will provide a framework of modern, safer and, above all, closer to the demands of the times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u205	With glory and honor we enter the list of Members. Mr Ljupis from New Democracy has the floor and Mrs Papanatsiou follows from SYRIZA. Mr. Lippe, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, many have expected that the unforeseen financial consequences of the pandemic would completely overthrow the planning of the government. However, governmental work in the field of the economy focuses mainly on two axes. Firstly, to limit the effects of the economic recession and, secondly, to continuing structural changes based on the planning of the government and the announcements of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The first major innovation of the bill is favourable taxation for pensioners who will transfer their tax residence to Greece. We are following a practice of other European countries and a 7% tax rate is introduced for pension incomes from abroad and up to 15 years. This gives a strong incentive to pensioners abroad to opt for the Greek tax system, thereby strengthening public revenues. It is important that it exempts shares and internal tourism from taxation, worth up to 300 euros, which are given free of charge by businesses to workers. Incentives to attain objectives, known bonuses, are to the benefit of both workers and businesses. In particular, internal tourism layouts are very necessary, at least in this period, to stimulate the serious tourist movement. A great stimulus to the sale of real estate and building activity shall be provided by the provision of Article 7. Parental benefits and donations to children will no longer be taxed in order to purchase first home. It was a common Greek practice of financing the first house of new couples by their parents, and is thus welcomed by the Greek State. A stable request from the rural world is met by the trade exemption for farmers who joined the VAT system five years ago and of course also for fishermen in coastal fishing. This is a move of practical support in the primary sector to Greek farmers and fishermen, the necessity of which, Minister, we stressed, and a question in this regard within the framework of parliamentary control. Following on from the draft adopted last week on the electromobility and promotion of the use of new non-pollutant cars, the provision of Article 9 comes. It reduces the registration fee for hybrid cars, while completely exempting purely electrical cars. An excellent initiative is that of setting up the Committee on External Economic Relations to resolve tax disputes. Those who appeal to administrative justice against tax burdens imposed on them are forced to wait many years for the irrevocable trial of their cases. This time-consuming judicial procedure is detrimental to both taxpayers and the public. The new committee will examine very promptly requests from citizens who have already appealed to justice. Thus several cases will be able to be closed out of court, as a compromise solution is to be found, in particular, in cases of limitation of the right of the public or manifest error on the part of the tax authority. The draft law provides for a reduction or exemption from the advance payment of income tax for 2019. In particular, the favourable regulation concerns those who have recorded a reduction in VAT turnover between the first half of 2020 compared to that of 2019. This is a tangible demonstration of the support that companies receive in this difficult economic situation. Finally, the Ministry of Finance created the "GEYRA" programme for the effective protection of first residence. The government fully perceived the economic pressure on households and businesses, formed a protective grid for first residence. For nine months, the Greek State will participate in the payment of loans that have as collateral a mortgage on the principal residence of the debtor. This is a regulation that has been extended to almost every category of borrower. However, the great innovation of the new programme, which makes it completely innovative, is that it also concerns loans for service. For the first time, they will accept state support and borrowers, who have remained consistent with their credit obligations despite difficulties. In recent years, we have identified the tax bills with new taxes, a burden on households and businesses, and in any case with bad news for citizens. Today is not one of them. It moves in a completely opposite direction to the usual, including provisions that clearly relate to a reformist orientation of the government project. The word'reform' is not used here euphemistically. These are regulations aimed at changing the tax landscape with the ultimate aim of growth. The long-standing and much-discussed development will not only come with major projects and investments. It will also come with the creation of a stable, secure and friendly tax system that treats taxpayers fairly. A relationship of confidence and cooperation between the state and the workers, pensioners and entrepreneurs is being structured firmly and decisively. We are all partners, associates and not opponents in this dynamic effort to reconstruct the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor. Then he will present the amendment of the Ministry of Civil Protection, the State Secretary, Mr. Economou. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is certainly incompatible with its title: "Forensic interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy". As we understand it, the bill under discussion is not a development framework but a slogan of scorpioning provisions. It doesn't bring about long-lived growth. Wait for you to bring growth, swinging the funds abroad from retired people and exemptions to well-paid athletes and coaches. But this is not a coherent plan. Unless you are dreaming of developing the exemptions of Mount Athos, the self-taxation of pensioners abroad with 7%, the reduction of the taxation of coaches' contracts with an autonomous tax of 22%, the taxation of the securities that will proceed to a donation to Greece abroad. At the same time, the strengthening of tourism means, for the New Democracy, non-compulsory vouches to private sector workers worth EUR 300. Include the exemption from inclusion as income for the benefits to employees, shareholders and partners as bonuses with the disposal of shares. This is the support of the workers for the New Democracy. Subsequently, with the staff arrangements of the Ministry of Finance, the National Mobility System and the Staff Councils are bypassed. The ultimate state is here. Also included is the suspension of the trade fee for farmers for this year's exemption from which they have had all the previous period. Just keep going. We are glad to see that, after our own pressures, we have added to the arrangement and the coastal fishermen. What, though, is the case with the amounts of support declared by the Minister for Rural Development? Farmers and farmers have remained apart from your incomplete measures to deal with the pandemic. As regards the reduction of the advance payment, the measure must be of a permanent nature. Otherwise you will simply turn this reduction into a returner, as the beneficiaries of this measure will be asked to pay 100% in the next few years. Furthermore, the regulation on public contribution, although it has broadened criteria, does not involve an extension of the protection of first residence and restricts the subsidy only to the pandemic affected. But the important thing is that this framework is conditional on the resignation of the other arrangements. We shall now proceed to the 'GREATS' framework. It raises us a question: What will it bridge? A few months ago, we asked you about the 'Sale and Lease Back' project described in the May enhanced surveillance text. There, it is stated that the principal place of the borrowers will be leased to the debtor. Is that your plan? We have tabled an amendment to that effect. We invite you to accept it. Finally, for the directives, we must note the important functioning of administrative cooperation for the exchange of information and its proper integration. Perhaps you should, Minister, see the issue of tax at the time of exit. In the alternative doses, perhaps they should not be offended. Likewise, in paragraph 9 on valued persons, or special value-added, a limit should be added, that is, they have not been members in recent years, so that someone does not resign today and tomorrow makes the valuation. Finally, with regard to the Dispute Settlement Directive, the articles of the Law do not follow the semantic order of the provisions of the Directive. Two points in detail: in Article 22, there is serious confusion with the competent authority. While initially defined by the Ministry of Finance, the second sentence of paragraph is defined as the AIA. Article 40 contains a provision setting a time limit of 10 August for the adoption of a ministerial decision on the list of independent persons, and this is not customary. So if these personalities have to be withdrawn, changed, will there be a limitation of the Minister's previous decision? Mr President-in-Office, we have heard the Prime Minister and colleagues say that you are conducting a policy for all. But you don't enter policies for everyone and everyone. The economy is moving towards a new major recession. Here's a little parentheses. The President referred to the results of the summit. He told us that he took 19 billion for grants and not 70 billion for grants a few days ago. But will it still be 19 billion, or a few days later will he come and tell us that they are less? He also promised much more than he claimed. It accepted the establishment of a fund operating mechanism linking disbursement to the implementation of painful Memorandum Reforms. Of course, you do not consider them to be specific regulations, since your policies are memorandums even without a Memorandum. The information about the Pissaridis committee, which you keep with us, is about austerity reforms that the government itself is planning. On the other hand, we have the elements of the Ministry of Finance for the first half of 2020, which confirmed a divergence in terms of the primary result target at EUR 6.4 billion. Minister, we have also seen in the budget report that spending over the first half of the year has been exceeded by 3 billion, with an analysis describing support measures for the pandemic. We want an answer to that, Mr Ministers. Where are the amounts you said and advertised? To prevent you, we know that the amounts of the analysis are recorded in the time they are credited, but here in the bulletin the expenditure amounts are overthrowing the whole communication storm, unless you're pulling money from the cash buffer. I shall conclude, Mr President, with your tolerance. Unfortunately, in every form of policies you enter, you seem to have no planned plan. Your permanent concern is yes, but in what context? As tax exemptions and tax exemptions, but for whom? This plan is not sustainable, it is not a plan for the institutional establishment of new tools, nor for social progress. We must not discuss generally and vaguely the reduction of taxes. On the contrary, we need to see both their implementation and their reduction in taxation fairer and fairer. It is not the first of all the fewer taxes, as you want to say, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but who pays them and with what tax capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, too. He has the floor for the amendment tabled by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Economou, and immediately thereafter Mr Lebanese, State Secretary for the Interior, will develop the amendment of the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of its term of office, the Government has shown that it has an integrated programme aimed at achieving the normality required to carry out the task for which it is intended. The political leadership of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, which was entrusted with the development and exercise of anti-crime policy, and therefore the management of all detention stores in the country over these months is essentially discussing and appalling a number of actors in the area, with the aim of solving years of problems identified in areas such as organisation, management, financial management, security of detention areas and post-institutional care. We are really facing any emerging challenge, working on all possible policies, which would help to improve the functioning of the market on the basis of the protection of fundamental food rights and of workers in these shops. We are studying chronic deficiencies and inadequacies in infrastructure. We are working on new proposals whose implementation will make a significant contribution to the resolution of the country's penitentiary system. We are taking those legislative initiatives, which will lead to the resolution of a series of chronic malfunctions in relation to the management, operating and administration of the country's penitentiary institutions. With this in mind today - in the context of the debate and vote on this draft law by the Ministry of Finance - two provisions in the form of an amendment, which deal with two essential issues with which we are faced every day in the attempt to ensure good administration and the smooth functioning of the country's entire penitentiary shops. The provisions presented today before the National Representation aim to regulate economic loose ends that are already dating back to 2016 and which have a significant malfunctioning in the management of all the detention stores in the country, on the other hand, are a permanent brake on the smooth implementation of the state budget. The targeted legislative initiative that we are taking today also has another major benefit, if I may say so, in the current time-frame that we are going through. It is a clear message for the market, for the private sector. We are evoking a strong signal to the suppliers of the country's penitentiary, that the current government is here and takes all the necessary initiatives, which will restore the validity and reliability of the services of the General Secretariat for Anti-Criminal Policy, by reintroducing it the necessary solvency, which will ensure the smooth implementation of the programme of supplies necessary for the smooth functioning of detention stores. So, through this arrangement, we are immediately moving towards the launch of the cost-installation process of around EUR 5 million, which had already accumulated since 2016 and concerned a number of needs such as drugs, heating and driving oil, bakery and a number of others. We are putting an end to the agony of hundreds of private professionals who have so far been waiting as legal beneficiaries for the sums due to be paid to them. We are redefining the functioning of neural services of the General Secretariat of Crime Policy, this time on new solid foundations based on transparency, sound financial management and administration. These provisions aim to deal effectively with another matter of high importance, which directly concerns the uninterrupted feeding of food from detention stores. This regulation introduces an extension of a few months, up to 31/12-2020, of the supply contracts, as this period is necessary to achieve the necessary staff membership of the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs, following a relevant legislative initiative that we have already drawn up and planned for the immediate future. This design is primarily the result of the particular exceptional circumstances created by the tripling of the COVID pandemic -19, the health-needed rotating work of the staff of that service, and therefore the failure to conduct a tender for the supply of bakery items, as originally planned. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions constitute the result of a long-term and very difficult effort towards our strategic aiming, which is no more than the smoothness of the operation of detention stores. Our constant demands are a modern, efficient, functional penitentiary with respect for inmates of detention stores, officials of the competent services and the whole society. Today's legislative initiative is aimed solely at this direction, and it is only part of a wider web of initiatives which we will unfold in the next few years, calling - as today - for your support, because our actions are the mirror of our words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u211	Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to refer to the amendments concerning the Ministry of the Interior. In particular, two regulations are introduced in 433 which are important. First, in response to a request from several municipalities, there is the possibility of transferring money from payroll services to non-repayables up to 31-12-2020. This will give greater flexibility to this extraordinary treaty that we are living through and the pandemic. Also, an important regulation which is introduced is the mechanism to prevent late payment, which is mainly due to delays by the municipalities themselves. There are three general factors for outstanding debts. It is the lack of liquidity, the inability of the supplier to produce the necessary documentation and a delay in the repayment procedure. That part, the third part, we're dealing with it. We put more stringent rules and try not to be the cause of this recurring recurring to local government. I would like to stress that since 2012 when the due date programme was launched, more than EUR 1.3 billion has been allocated for payment of dues. Now in the whole of self-government it is estimated a little over EUR 200 million, of which, however, an important part cannot be repaid due to the responsibility of the suppliers, and in the next few days we are in constant contact with the General Accounting and the State Secretary, Mr. Sylakakis, in order to disburse the money, about EUR 120 million, in the first phase towards the municipalities and regions of the country, mainly to the municipalities. The second amendment is 440. This is where Mr. Katrinis made a report before. It concerns the recruitment of 50 people to the EBRD for one single reason. The ‘ITISM’ programme has been launched. The first six invitations have been made. In the next few days, the next time, the remaining invitations will also be in place, and there is a need for support especially for small and medium-sized municipalities in the development of studies and the preparation of applications dossiers. The government's intention and commitment is that no municipality should stay outside the financial programme and at least have a project in place. Therefore, also under pressure from the time periods available, the EBRD will support the small municipalities of the country and the new study and project supervision so that we can obtain the benefits of the programme. I would like to stress that the vast majority of the recruitments for 2020 related to local government agencies are mainly specialised personnel of technical services, which were adopted some two weeks ago by the Ministers for the Interior and Finance and are starting procedures. Each body will start the procedures through an APA in order to provide critical deficiencies in qualified staff. In addition, inadvertent programming contracts shall be transferred to the Economic Commission. They had been transferred to the municipalities. They are also being transferred to the regions. We recommend a provision for the fragmented municipalities, if I am not mistaken, is eleven or twelve, which proves how difficult the project was to complete the division of the municipalities in Corfu, Kefalonia, Lesvos, Serbia, Velvet and Samos. I would also like to inform the House that the informal intergroup with representatives of all the parties in this House will meet next Tuesday 4 August at the office of the Interior Minister in the afternoon in order to inform them of the platform for candidates from outside Greece, where it will be possible in the next few days for anyone who wants to exercise their electoral right, if they fulfil the conditions, to be able to submit the relevant request. And, by the way, we are amending the relevant article. There was an explanation of voters for the first year of implementation. This will also be discussed in the intergroup committee, and the procedure will now be carried out on a regular basis, because applications are always open, as we said in the vote on the law. In conclusion, at the last point, the possibility in particular of JEPs in small municipalities being able to use their staff in other services for the service of citizens. Already since the electronisation of many processes, this has been reduced, especially in small municipalities, and these employees can be used alongside their duties in JEPs and other items related to their degree. Finally, we close a loose end that existed regarding the people who suffered burns during the fire in Matti in 2018. They are now entitled to appoint the public under specific conditions, and if they are unable to do so by their own close relatives, to be the minimum that can be done alongside any judicial investigation that is under way to restore the enormous damage they have suffered. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u214	Wait a minute, Mr. Vésyropoulou, because there is a problem here and there is a big problem. I understand it's the last two meetings before the interruption. But here they appear - and I expected there to be - a number of amendments concerning terminations of contracts, overdue requirements, etc. There are, however, a number of amendments to the whole bills. For example, if, for the 440 amendment, Mr Karamanlis comes and argues, all the signatories, in any case, you understand that for an amendment we will be running out of time. I do not know how this has been done, but at least for every amendment to speak by a Minister. Secondly, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure say that if there is an amendment, we have decided in the Bureau that there will be a single debate on the whole and on the articles and amendments. Do you know, however, that the amendments should normally be discussed at the end of the debate on the articles? In other words, the Bureau is in a difficult position with all this. Anyway, I'm telling you, let's see and think about what to do. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to put in a piece of legislation. It's a reform of a paragraph in Article 72 of the Income Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u216	Thank you. Mrs Skondra has the floor for seven minutes, and then Mr Brutsi will support his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me congratulate them on their symbolic decision, the staff of the Ministry of Finance, on their lifelong retirement for the warriors of Cyprus. Also, let me congratulate them, because all this time, one year in hard work, they have brought very good and fair results for Greek society and the point is that they are doing so modestly, quietly and calmly. On the bill now, by consistently implementing our strategic planning for the recovery and competitiveness of our economy, but also by giving solutions to real problems arising from pandemic to citizens and businesses, the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagioras, today brings this bill to the vote. It is a bill that demonstrates that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, despite unforeseen adversities, continues consistently, responsibly and methodically its reform work and consistently improves the country's economic environment and economic climate. It contains provisions that provide solutions to pond problems and provides substantial help to businesses, farmers, workers and citizens who have been tested in the previous period by the coronary pandemic. We are again in a difficult period and it is necessary to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy in this process of recovery that we are now in progress. Positive tax interventions include the necessary initiatives to support affected borrowers. Arrangements are introduced in various areas of economic life such as entrepreneurship, tourism and investment. The main axis of the bill is the interventions that provide for reductions in income tax for workers, the attraction of new investments with targeted tax exemptions and the provision of tax incentives for natural persons abroad to transfer their tax residence to an attractive Greece. Years of issues in taxation and a fairer cost in vehicle registration are also regulated, so as to gradually eliminate the introduction and circulation of the pelagic polluter fleet in Greece and promote new environmentally friendly cars. As I am elected to a purely agricultural law, Karditsa, I would like at this point to join my voice with the rapporteur in a proposal, gentlemen, of the Ministry of Finance, concerning the imposition of an environmental charge of EUR 1000 in Euro 5 technology vehicles. I will ask the financial staff to review this fee, as they are vehicles that are already in fact very strict environmental conditions. The exemption from this financial burden, especially for professionals and farmers, would make it considerably easier to acquire and use them. I believe that this goes hand in hand with the overall political commitment to practical support for the primary sector. I welcome, Mr Secretary, the regulation exempting farmers from the obligation to pay the trade fee. Let me pass on the satisfaction of the farmers in Carditsa and thank you very much because you have given me the opportunity to contribute to your positive decision as well. In the same way I welcome, of course, the reduction in the advance tax on businesses. These are essential measures that facilitate economic recovery especially in areas such as Carditsa, which are based almost all of their economic activities in the primary and secondary sectors. At this critical moment in the reopening of our national economy, the primary sector, moreover, is the backbone for many economic sectors and sectors of the Greek region. I do not want to go any further into the individual arrangements of the bill, but I shall briefly mention some of the speeches that are fully in line with the liberal economic programme of the New Democracy which the government has successfully implemented in implementing all its commitments. We are going to intervene in the out-of-court resolution of tax disputes, resulting in the decongestion of the courts in order to deal more quickly with cases and to stimulate tax revenues. The abolition of the self-taxation of parental benefits and the introduction of tax-free payments for parents' money to children in order to facilitate the Greek family on the first home market, while supporting the building activity. The "GEFYRA" programme is being established as a relief measure for borrowers, increasing the range of beneficiaries and for the first time including consistent borrowers. A State subsidy of up to EUR 600 per month is granted to a large group of beneficiaries for both the provided loans and the unserved ones. This supports almost all the borrowers affected by the health crisis, while limiting the risk of creating a new generation of red loans. I am surprised to hear that we are being judged and affected by SYRIZA's colleagues on the auctioning of first home. Why are you swinging your head, Mr. Comrade? Didn't you apply the electronic auctions? Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy and our Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, have committed themselves to Greek citizens to implementing policies that will stimulate the Greek market, create new jobs and allow the country to return quickly to normality. We abandon the morbid model of stateism and overtaxation as implemented by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. We consistently, sincerely and determined to implement one of the promises we have made. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We support entrepreneurship, we facilitate private initiative, we create new opportunities, we support citizens. We are strengthening the sense of security and justice in the society that was completely collapsed. We are implementing practices that promote social cohesion and economic recovery. We support the agricultural sector, which contributes directly and substantially to the national product and has the potential to offer many more. Greece belongs, in principle, to agricultural countries. It will hardly have heavy industries. So what we have as a comparative advantage has to support it to the full. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has also convinced the most skeptical that it can and knows how to manage with adequate and successful major crises and major challenges. The successful treatment of pandemic made Greece one of the fewest human losses. We never said that relaunching the economy after Lockdown would be an easy case. Although for purely micro-political benefits SYRIZA hoped and invested in new memoranda, new fiscal measures and high rates of recession, Kyriakos Mitsotakis took the lead at European level, demanded, convinced and returned to Greece, bringing many billions of euros for the benefit of Greeks and our country. Ultimately, destiny fled impossible. And the destiny of the New Democracy is to handle the difficult and to pull Greece out of the deadlocks successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u218	The Minister for Labour, Mr. Brutsi, has the floor. Then, in addition, if he'd like to, Mr. Plakatakis will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I would like to speak in the light of Mr Brutsi's position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u220	First, I would like to say the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u221	We want the process to be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u222	Good. Have a seat. Maybe what he'll say to cover for you. Immediately after you ask why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of proposing an amendment which is a set of many critical and important provisions on insurance and labour. Critical in the sense that they are necessary, especially during the period that we are experiencing and are experiencing, in order to boost the income of pensioners, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to maintain jobs in this critical period when our tourism has suffered a profoundly negative impact because of the coronary. But allow me to link my suggestion to the amendment which has provisions concerning hundreds of thousands of fellow workers and pensioners, with something that has recently happened to the Ministry of Labour and which is inextricably linked to the development of this amendment, Mr President. Four days ago, exactly, we achieved what many considered impossible. We have achieved what many characterized as impossible, and even some people have come to call it a reproach on my part and on the part of the government. We did what we had done for fifty years was a requirement of Greek society. We have created the digital pension "ITLAS". which changes the data in the country's insurance system. From now on in the tight and concrete timetable, as I have set it to the Ministry of Labour, the Prime Minister's presence, by the end of 2021 all the workers in the country who complete their working life, will never again live this suffering, the torture process to wait for their retirement for two, three and more years. The digital version ‘ITLAS’ is a fact. It started on 23-7-2020. It's two very big charges. The categories of widow's pensions, the sensitive category, and the abstracts of the agricultural life of the former OGA, our farmers. And as the process opens and now works, the tight schedule says that at the end of 2020 it will join the digital system “ATLAS”, the next sensitive major category, disability pensions, which starts pilotally in December 2020 and ends in March 2021. In the middle of 2021 three major categories: public sector employees, private sector employees and engineers are also part of the digital system ‘ATLAS’. And we conclude in December 2021 that the operation, the full implementation of the "ATLAS" that are part of the former "SNE" as a fund, self-employed and freelance professionals, lawyers and journalists. This, Mr President, is a reality, which is now an estate of the Greek people and which is regarded by many as an achievement, which has come to change what we knew as a pathogen of decades in our country's insurance system. And because, in fact, there are also questions raised about the ongoing pensions, I would like to put forward two questions concerning the question raised above all by the Civic Opposition. Firstly, the Civic Opposition when it was responsible for the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour, never responded to the number of outstanding pensions, hid behind public appearances and said inaccurate figures and figures, cheating on the Greek people, and every time she passed under the cubit she laid and said at that time that there would be no more pensions. At the time we took over we increased by 38.4% the rate of pension award and took over on September 1, 2019, for then the administration of e-ECA changed. Secondly, unfortunately, we found twenty thousand unregistered pensions, not registered, and thirdly, it hit us and the period of COVID -19, which unfortunately the officials left the e-ECA and could not award pensions. And we're being renounced and renounced by the Qualified Opposition for outstanding pensions. Who? Those who deliberately hid them and did not present them. In any case, life goes on, we're all judged, evaluated, we look forward. And since there is now "ATLAS" everything goes in a direction, which says that the outstanding pensions from now on will constantly fall until they disappear. In the period in which he enters, then, we have an obligation. The abstracts of working life that are now taking a poor pension in the sense of advance, the government comes and does what it needs to do. Reinforce their income. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And how do we do it? Firstly, with this amendment for all employees who receive temporary retirement and until they get their normal pension, we increase the temporary pension and from 50% we make it 80%, improving their income. Secondly, for all self-employed professionals we increase by 20% the advance they receive, making it from 50%, 70%. And this element is to keep it from going through, even the main pension they'll get when they get it properly. Thirdly, the possibility of retroactive payment of all these hundreds of thousands of low temporary pensions is being introduced. They will be taken along with the temporary increased pension, i.e. they will be taken together by everyone as soon as the amendment is voted on. Fourthly, there was an exception. They didn't get a temporary pension for those who worked. This ban, and for the first time, we allow pensioners to receive the temporary pension that they are entitled to. Fifthly, we are coming and for the first time we are now making an advance on the one-off. Because the one-off procedure is a painful process with regard to the state's uncertainties and diseases, we come to give the opportunity to a world, whoever is entitled to a single right and expects it for too many years, to get an advance through it one-off. These are the critical insurance provisions regarding the reinforcement of pensioners who have not received their normal pension and are part of the remaining so-called pensioners, and the state is really showing its interest in strengthening them. Other layout. Excise amounts due from EEAS. Let me tell you that here is another painful story, which demonstrates how the political system often understands things. We owe hundreds of millions to providers who gave doctors, to clinical and diagnostic centers. We have received these invoices in full. Fully! In the first half of 2019, if I'm not mistaken, only 300 to 400,000 had been paid. And responsibility on us is enormous, because we are being assessed for the time being. And the responsibility at the moment, because it was playing a game - it's not the time - falls upon the government to pay off all the time with regard to health issues. And we have already entered the process, several million have already been given, but that is not enough. This is why, under this provision, we are creating an electronic platform, whereby we call on all health providers to whom the Greek State owes them, to enter this platform and give them 90% as an advance to the obligation we have to them, and then to assess money and credit. Another painful story, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA! Since 2015, unexplained why, no funeral expenses have been paid to farmers. More than forty - five thousand lake in bags, funeral expenses of peasants and were not given. And we found ourselves in front of a mountain of loose ends, which do not come under the pretext that the country is obliged to pay and make progress, a situation which I cannot describe. I want it to be the last time, I did it in committee when we talked about insurance, I don't want to talk about the past again. I just want to look forward to it. But I am obliged today to defend the amendments, and I call on SYRIZA to vote for them, because his responsibilities are enormous. Since 2015, forty - five thousand beneficiary people who lost their relative farmer have not received funeral expenses. What did we do to deal with it? Two things. Firstly, for the first time in our insurance system it was made with its excellent support e - EVA, I have to mention Christos Hallaris and his sub-government who are doing an excellent job, a digital platform that already operates since July 1st and then no such case is required to refer to EVA. We've got a hundred and twenty thousand less transactions at the FBI offices. It's all done electronically now. Personally, during the pandemic I spoke with teleconferencing with all the ceremonies offices, with their federation, it was an agreement, the ministerial decision describes in detail and now everything is done electronically from a distance and the money is paid in fifteen days. We solved the problem of pathogenicity for decades to come. Since 1 July 2020, it works and we have seen the future. For the past, however, a legislative provision is needed, and I want the vote and the support of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Brutsi, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u225	Yes, Mr. President. One, two, three provisions are, but I think they are important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u226	Three more provisions? We'll be 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u227	We are therefore calling on the House to support the possibility of paying back to the forty-five thousand beneficiaries of EUR 800 without control of EUR 800 to all. That's what this provision is asking for. We cannot control the funeral documents from 2015 until today, it is impossible, and we want to make this clearing in the whole world that deserves and forty-five thousand have not received the expenses of his relative's funeral during the period that he had to. I ask for the support of the House. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u228	How much longer do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u229	Your Honor, I'm just finishing up. I shall conclude with some provisions which are working on it. We are coming and strengthening the ‘COMPANY-WORK’ programme, through which we now ensure the full coverage of insurance contributions, from 1 July to 31 December 2020, for specific categories, but also again for the ‘COMPANY-WORK’ programme, we are extending its extension from 1 July to 15 October 2020, and we are paying for all insurance contributions. In other words, to strengthen the ability of businesses to keep jobs. At the same time, with a number of other provisions which have already been announced by the Prime Minister and also by the Ministers for Labour and Finance, we are covering employers' and insurance contributions in too many categories and cases of workers through companies so that at this critical time jobs can be kept. These are basically the critical working and insurance provisions which we consider necessary, important and critical for the world of work, for the world of insured persons and for pensioners who are awaiting retirement. I ask Parliament to vote on the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. Mr. Plackotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u232	Here you go, Mr. Mamulaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u233	We have already asked for this series of amendments tabled by Mr Brutsi, which are essentially a whole bill, to open up the debate. You also saw from his short-term position to support these amendments that they were many, so I would like the relevant Head of SYRIZA to be given the floor on labour matters, Mr Ahtsoglou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u234	Wait a minute, Mr. Mamulaki. The amendment tabled - if you have seen it - is almost all from the Ministry of Labour, but it has three provisions from the Ministry of Shipping. It is a single amendment, which is why I give the floor to Mr Plakkatakis, and then we will see how this debate is to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u235	As it happens so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u236	I'm sorry, the Bureau says that. The government doesn't say so. Mr. Plakyotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Ministry of Labour includes three very important provisions, the responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The first provision mentions the fact that a stable and very important objective of the Government is to secure jobs and to reduce the unemployment of seafarers. How is this objective ensured? It shall only be ensured when the internationally recognised collective labour agreements are applied to sea-going vessels under the flag of Greece. I am referring only to foot-and-mouth merchant ships of over three thousand koruna. On the coastline, collective agreements remain the same. So, we're talking about seafaring and only low crew skills.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u238	Excuse me, Mr. Placiotakis. Mr Brutsi, I beg your pardon, but you should remain a little bit late because there is a matter in relation to your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u239	Is that how you're leaving? There are questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, the parliamentary representative has also been appointed...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u241	The procedure has, of course, been set if you say that the parliamentary representative will answer. I'm sorry, but be careful what Rule 107 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, if I are to remain, because Parliament is a priority, I would ask you very much to be organised and to listen to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u243	I'll make the proposal later, always on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Plakyotakis, continue and forgive me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u244	I repeat, because there is a flow of speech and for everyone to understand in this Chamber what I am talking about. First of all, I am referring to internationally recognised collective labour agreements in seagoing shipping - coastal shipping remains the same - and this applies only to specific ratings of the lower crew, as well as to the specialties of non-suppliers and third-party engineers. The results of this intervention are obvious. We are increasing the ability to employ lower crews in seagoing shipping, making seafaring more attractive and, at the same time, strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek register. How is that possible? For everyone in this Chamber to have a full picture, because - you know - all these decades are under discussion, but so far no one has had the political courage to make this political decision in describing reality. So what is the reality, ladies and gentlemen? Greece is the first world power internationally. It has four thousand nine thousand Greek vessels, controls 20.67% of world tonnage and 54.28% of European tonnage. So we are talking about a superpower internationally, but also at European level. How many ships are with Greek flags? Just the five hundred ninety-nine. So only 12% of the Greek fleet is under Greek flag. Specifically, I will tell you that only three hundred ships choose the Cypriot flag, while over seven hundred fifty ships choose the Maltese flag and, of course, various other flags such as Liberia, Panama, the Marshall Islands. At the same time, I would like to tell you that in 1995, when the Greek fleet totaled two thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine ships, ships flying the Greek flag were a thousand nineteen. In other words, the Greek fleet rate on the Greek owner was 42% and today it is 12%. In addition, the Greek flag offers a prestigious presence in the European institutions, but mainly in the International Maritime Organisation. Because each country is involved on the basis of its register. In addition, what is the reality of seagoing shipping? In principle, collective agreements have been signed since 2010. What is the status of employment in seagoing shipping? In the 1970s we had over seventy thousand seafarers. What is the situation today? We have eight thousand. You know, in this Chamber, we need to speak with certain numbers. Of course that's not an accident. So, in order to revive the shipping of the Greeks - because it is not enough to have the world's first shipping and it is not enough to have the largest Greek shipowners - we also want Greek crews. We want them to be employed in the seagoing shipping of Greek birds. We must not deprive anyone of the right to be able to engage in Greek shipping. Ladies and gentlemen of the JRC, with all due respect, I have heard that you are talking about gallery wages in shipping. You know, world shipping doesn't have galley wages. On the contrary, I'd say. Global shipping has very well-paid positions. Do you know how much the seafarer's total salary is, along with the eligible allowances? It's $2,200. If you believe that $2,200 is a full-time wage, I leave it to the crisis of the Greek society and the unemployed young man, who is at this hour looking for a huge job. They're the ones who answer if $2,200 is a gallon's salary. Now, what happens to global shipping, to know what we're talking about. Note: for Greek-owned vessels with a foreign flag, international collective labour agreements apply. How are these concluded? They are concluded with International Transport Workers Federation, known as ITF, and International Maritime Employers' Council. So, what are we going to do? As is true of Greek-owned vessels with a foreign flag, we must also apply them to Greek-owned vessels with a Greek flag. I think that in this way - it is quite clear - we will also strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek register, which is constantly decreasing, but we will also attract new unemployed Greeks, who are at the moment looking for work on seagoing boats. This very simple thing we're doing today. In addition, in a second provision, which we introduce, we allow the Greek shipowner, again on board the Greek flag, when there is no work offered by the Greek master, to allow him, in order not to change his flag, to charter a foreign master. Here I come to say that there is also a huge problem finding quality officers in global shipping. According to the latest investigation of the International Chamber of Shipping in cooperation with BIMCO, it has been established that by 2025 there will be a deficit in officers of over 40,000 five hundred, in relation to ever demand. So, glorious glorious field! We have the world's first shipping, we have five thousand pit ships, we have to enable the productive schools to produce more quality officers, because I told you that the needs are very great. In practical terms, there is no unemployment among the officers. That's the reality. On the contrary, we must produce more and more quality officers, because global shipping is changing. There are new environmental regulations, new regulations, cybersecurity, digital governance. So we want to upgrade public maritime education as a whole. This objective, which we are implementing, is what we do in cooperation with the Evgenid Foundation, which we are preparing the main strategic axes so that we can upgrade overall with a plan of integrated maritime education so that we can produce more quality officers. Furthermore, the last provision proposed for maritime unions ensures respect for the institutionalised principles of transparency, but also reciprocity in the elections, in the antiquities of the trade unions. In other words, to say it and simply to the elections, we want those exercising the naval profession to vote in antiquities rather than what has been observed so far by a representative or by correspondence in writing to take part in elections. Mr President, in conclusion - and I thank you for your tolerance - we need a return to this country to self-evidently. We have the world's first shipping. We have the market in front of us. So let us give the opportunity and the opportunity for competitive wages, that is, that is to say, for seagoing shipping, to be able to strengthen the Greek register, but especially for Greek shipping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much. No one thanks me for my tolerance, because I have no other means but to remind you that time has passed. I'm just saying it's low. Wait a minute, I understand that all hands have been raised in this House with regard to the amendments. The presentation of all the amendments on the part of the Ministers has been completed. I therefore propose that each party should take five minutes and speak only about the amendments. In other words, each party will choose what amendments it will make. If you agree to finish this procedure in half an hour, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u246	On a point of order, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u247	Say on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. At the moment, only one of the amendments spoke for more than twenty minutes. Indeed, Mr Paciotakis, since I happen to have the appropriate area, has another amendment - the legislation on equivalent transport. You can understand, therefore, that there are so many issues that I do not think it is enough five minutes from my fellow Members, who otherwise know each of these issues. So I don't think it's enough five minutes from each party. I think there should be a more open short-term procedure, but more speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u249	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor. It's just that we don't spend too much time on the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u250	Not to stay in the procedural procedure, but you will allow me to say that from the outset we have been placed for the bill, which we have to discuss, but we will ultimately not discuss that it is an example of a bad legislature. What is happening today has no precedent, Minister. So many amendments have been tabled, which are, in fact, two and three draft legislations. So at the moment, Mr President, that is what we are asking, since the cycle has been completed, not to go into five-minute placements from each party, but to make a position on each amendment. If we go in five minutes, I think there's a problem. We're not going to take a position and we're not going to make any sense. I want to say to close, Mr. President, that a game is also being played...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u251	Are the MPs going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, please. What are you doing? "Will we talk or won't we talk?" Why, did I keep anyone in the Chamber or did I get him out?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u253	You caused it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u254	I made a suggestion to make everyone easier. I say to you that this proposal comes to be added to the speeches that everyone will make. Because we cannot have a separate debate in writing. To speak five minutes by the rapporteur from each party, and then Mr Santorinios, let us say seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I will make a concrete proposal to remove a little from the deadlock in which we are. I propose that we discuss the amendment by Mr Brutsi and Mr Plakkatakis. We have both of our rapporteurs here and everything else to do at the end, so that we can facilitate the process. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Otherwise, if we do not accept that, ladies and gentlemen, each Member should go as properly as possible with time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u257	The proposal, which has just been put forward, is unrealistic and incomplete and I will explain immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u258	Which one, Mr. Bouga? I've made a suggestion myself. Mr. Moraite has made a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u259	Your proposal is set out in the last paragraph of Article 107, which says that time can be set to discuss the amendments. However, we do not have an amendment here, we have a number of amendments. Therefore, the practical issue will arise which of each party will speak and what amendment is not anyone free to talk about any amendment he wants. Well, I think, Mr President, that we need an organisation in the debate to allow Members to speak, because I see that the list is a long one. Only three MPs have spoken, from forty, registered. They must therefore speak thirty-seven colleagues and the parliamentary representatives, who have not spoken. I therefore propose that the debate should normally develop, as agreed at the start of the sitting, both the main part of the bill and the amendments which they consider to be intended to give weight and highlight the issues of the amendments and then the parliamentary representatives should also do so with a tolerance on the part of the Bureau in time, because there are indeed important amendments which will take further time from what is usually available to speakers. I think that any other proposal adopted by this House, Mr President, is inappropriate and will not make it possible for Members of Parliament to express their views, and of course it will restrict the opportunity for the parliamentary representatives to express their views. I think we need to move on with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u260	Good. Mr Katrinis now has the floor, and then Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u261	By now they'd all be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u262	Well, guys, if they're asking for the floor. That's the Rules of Procedure. The Rules don't say what everyone wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u263	Mr President, unfortunately, we are turning the time back just a year and the government is imitating itself. In other words, at the last plenary session, in a bill containing more than ninety articles, it has so far introduced eight - nine amendments - I do not know, I have lost the number - which, to their size, are more than the bill, which we are discussing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u264	It's six.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u265	I do not know, Minister, since you have corrected me that it is six, if the debate is over, which seems to last long enough, you will bring more. I do not know what else you have to bring to this day before this parliamentary term is over. However, we must respect those colleagues who have been waiting since 11:30 in the morning for them to be placed and at the end of the day to see how many amendments, anyway, the government is prepared to bring them to the end of the debate and the parties as a whole to be placed on the whole of the amendments. We cannot now discontinue the debate, talk about every amendment. It's not going to end this conversation. Unless we want colleagues not to talk. But this government's practice is unacceptable. You did, you do it again, and unfortunately, it seems that not only do you respect the House, but you do not respect what you have said in the election that you will go to other ways of legislating and that state. So, Mr President, we must proceed with the procedure and put it on the whole of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u266	Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u268	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u269	Excuse me, but get in touch with each other. You can't both ask why. So, what don't you understand? And when a member of your party is presided over, you must be more careful. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u270	Mr President, this is not our fault. It's the government's fault. We cannot have an amendment half an hour ago and say that we will wait until the end of the procedure. It cannot bring any changes to matters that are of no urgency. What Mr Plakkatakis said has no date at all. Why don't they come in September, where the House will reopen? What pressures the government on her and brings them now? That is, therefore, a matter. This is where we caught the government with the Vlach on the back. We must open up the debate, at least for the two amendments which have now been discussed with Mr Brutsi and Mr Plakkatakis, to open up a circle of party representatives. There can't be any false impressions Mr. Plakkatakis has made. Because all this has nothing to do with the reality in the Chamber and to answer after two and three hours. We've got to put it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I think we should proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, first of all, we consider it impossible to deal with so many amendments. It is really the whole process unacceptable and we think that if the reason is that the House is going to close and go on holiday, it would be better to close a week later and do a good job here. This whole process that we see is completely unacceptable. With regard to our specific proposal on what is being done today, our proposal is that we should be placed in our dentistry, as is usually the case for at least those amendments that are at least given time to be able to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u274	Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, I repeat our proposal. They're here both Ministers. We've been asking for five minutes since he's here, to a representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u276	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u277	...to ask questions to the Minister of Labour. It is very clear what I say and what I said before. In other words, it is not enough to make any mistakes about these amendments, we are coming and applauding them. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u278	Will you forbid us to applaud?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u279	What we are asking is for questions to be tabled on our part, Mr President. We need five minutes to our Head of Division, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u280	When Members take the floor, they will ask the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u281	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u282	Wait a minute, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u283	Did you leave insinuation on the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u284	Listen to me. That's how I learned because I was watching what the presidents say. Hear what the Rules of Procedure say in Rule 107(13): 'For amendments tabled following the programming by the Conference of Presidents, the time necessary for demand, by decision of Parliament, on a proposal from the President'. The President's proposal was that each party should be given five minutes to speak on the amendments. Otherwise, they won't be given five minutes and each one will speak in the seven-minute. This proposal will be put to the vote right now. It's gonna happen by uplifting...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u285	There is the "declared"!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u286	It shall not apply to the 'declared'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u287	Now what are you going to do, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u288	I'm not going to do anything. However, there is no ‘declared’ in this regard. Otherwise, why would I propose? I'd ask Mr. Buga and he'd be done. It's just. Mr President, that is very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u289	There is the "declared"! The Rules of Procedure provide when Members are raised. There is nothing more to be voted on but 'declared'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u290	Well, I see that the suggestion I made, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Moraite, listen. After Mr. Maraveya, it's Mr. Mamulakis talking. I would say that we all agree, since there is this issue, that Mrs Ahtsioglu should speak and you, as a parliamentary representative, should go further. Mrs. Ahchioglu will speak for seven minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u293	Does this make sense under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u294	Is the problem of giving Mrs Ahchioglu the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u295	I beg your pardon, you say that you want to see the Rules of Procedure. I am trying to resolve the issue with the amendments. You don't want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, these are issues in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u297	It's a disgrace to that thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u298	I hear you very well. You're talking wrong. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u299	We can't get into such a logic. If the majority says 'no', it is the majority's responsibility that fades parties to place themselves. We can't go to this media solution. Why? Because it's not bipartite the SYRIZA-New Democracy game. The other parties must be placed. Politically, let them take the responsibility of New Democracy, KINAL and Mr Velopoulos' party that it is forbidden for parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u300	After all, everything published will then be said. Looks like you don't even accept that. So, Mrs. Ahchioglu won't be able to speak right now. Mr. Bugas said to speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u301	If they do not accept that, we should go under the Rules of Procedure. To respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u302	Excuse me, whoever tells you is wrong. It is not just parliamentarians at the moment. That's another thing the Rules of Procedure say. Mr. Bougas said we should continue as it is. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u303	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u304	From SYRIZA Mr Moraitis and Mr Mamulakis said that they should be given five minutes to each party to speak about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u305	In the logic of Article 107.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u306	Wait a minute. Mr. Catarini, what do you think? Now it's between the two, as you can see.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, just a minute. Since the beginning of the debate, ministers are coming into the Chamber, they are tabling amendments, and suddenly we say that we will only discuss the two amendments. We will discuss all the amendments, but while respecting those colleagues who have been waiting since the morning to speak. We'll sit here by morning, we'll finish the process. But I hope the ministers will sit too, not go away. Continue the process, but the ministers will come to answer the questions that will be asked by the representatives or rapporteurs, when they are in the process, and on the amendments. Not now to freeze the procedure for only two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u308	Good, Mr. Catherine. It's understood. Please, just to go ahead, why is it the fairest request between everything else and the procedurals that says: We will talk or will not talk? Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u309	We have been told, Mr President, that we should now turn into a circle. This has been done on several occasions, and the meeting has been adjourned for one or two specific amendments. We do not now understand why they are trying to protect the government - for the New Democracy, we understand - the Change Movement and Velopoulos from this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, as we have said, we want to put everything in our vocabulary. Now if Mr Koutsouba's party thinks it should offend us, it's his problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u312	Leave Mr. Koutsuba's party now. It's nobody's property party. Mr Mauritius, do you want the floor to say something new, or are we going to say the same? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u313	Because I have listened carefully to Mr Katrin, to repeat this, the ministers are coming, they are telling us about the amendments and they are leaving. At the moment, let us take advantage of this Parliament, so that we can have a productive debate and ask questions about Mr Brutsis and Mr Placiotakis. If it is too heavy for Mr Plakkatakis - the head of department speaks to us in half an hour - at least we need five minutes for the work and the changes Mr Brutsis has brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u314	Good. Everyone holds their place, I imagine. So by the declaring at the moment, but it seems by the figure that is here at the moment, we will continue as we do and everyone in his speech will say about the amendment and the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, does the rapporteurs not have the right to ask the Minister for clarification for a minute? Not for a placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u316	Now? Are you kidding us? You're unacceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u317	I said about the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u318	Now you'll sit down. There's been a process. Mr. Catarini, I now think you're all helping the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u319	Mr Colleagues, we have tabled another proposal from the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u320	Mr Kathryn, you have a verbal controversy with Mr Karathanasopoulos, it is not about plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u321	You're the one who suggested to speak from the parties for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u322	Rejected that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u323	I said that under the Rules of Procedure the rapporteurs have the right to ask the ministers to clarify the amendments, not to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u324	Where does that say, Mr. Catarini?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u325	Mr President, the ministers are gone!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u327	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the health crisis has made its effects felt in the Greek economy too. Our economy, in fact, had a recession in the first quarter of 2020 by 0.9%, but a quite lower rate than the euro area average, which was at 3.6%. And this is because the government since the country's government took over its reform work, a reform project that continues consistently even under the difficult conditions created by the pandemic. Today we are introducing provisions in this draft law aimed at creating a more favourable tax environment, with targeted tax exemptions and a rationalisation of car taxation, in order to support jobs and strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy. We provide, ladies and gentlemen, for an alternative tax on pensions from abroad for all those who will declare Greece as their tax home. We therefore motivate foreign pensioners to transfer their tax home to Greece, since they will be taxed at a rate of 7% for a period of ten years and to exempt them from the special solidarity levy, a measure that has already been successfully implemented in several European Union countries, which will make a significant contribution to increasing public revenue. We are introducing a suspension of the obligation to pay a trade fee for farmers under normal conditions. It shall thus be implemented by the Government its commitment to exempt farmers from the trade charge, in particular for the fiscal year 2019 and after five years from the date of accession to the normal VAT system. We lighten hundreds of thousands of farmers of normal status who joined the normal VAT system as of 1 January 2014 and completed the five-year exemption. Then we reduce the advance income tax. Let's not forget that it was on the SYRIZA government, which was uploaded to 100%. Today we are reducing the advance payment of income tax for 2019 in proportion to the reduction in VAT turnover in the first half of 2020, compared to the first half of 2019 and zeroing it in some cases. We are introducing such arrangements in order to stimulate liquidity so that we can provide financial support for businesses and their sustainability. Ladies and gentlemen, it was SYRIZA in February 2019 as a government that abolished first home protection by law, and formed such a framework, which did not guarantee protection for all borrowers. With the Bridge Programme we give a deep breath to borrowers of first home housing loans, with the decisive involvement of the public. The New Democracy Government is setting up a new loan grant programme, including up-to-date borrowers, because we are aware of the situation in which they have come because of the health crisis. The previous government provided protection for only six months and only for specific borrowers. Who covered? In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. With the new programme, the beneficiaries are significantly enlarged in relation to the former government's first home protection programme. The new arrangement includes natural persons, workers in affected sectors, unemployed who receive exceptional support, free professionals in affected sectors, natural persons who have suffered a reduction in wages. We include professionals who have had a reduction in their commercial activity, beneficiaries who received aid in the form of the repayable advance, natural persons who are part of the mechanism to strengthen the employment of “COMPAN - WORK” and property owners who receive a reduced rent. We provide state subsidies for both service-related and non-performing loans. With this programme we reward the consistent borrowers with serviced loans, which have been affected by the health crisis. We are subsidising an important part of the monthly instalment of the loan, up to EUR 600. We thus limit the risk of creating a new generation of reds and loans because of the pandemic. Then we abolish the tax rate of 10% of the financial parental benefits and donations from parents to their children, with the aim of rekindling the real estate market. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to highlight the quickly reflexes of the Ministry on major issues of society, and I will refer to a local issue of the Amphithea community of the Ioannina Prefecture, where, with the existing coefficient of land exploitation that emerged, the EMI was disproportionately disproportionate to the real objective value of the properties, a misrepresentation due both to the incorrect registration of the number of residents of the settlement and to the price of the zone. There was even a taxpayer who was asked to pay 30,000 to 35,000 euros a year for a few acres of land. Since last October we have been in constant contact with the relevant ministers and the Secretary-General of the Ministry in order to examine the matter in detail and to correct the injustice that has been committed in recent years to property owners in Amphithea and we are very close to resolving this issue, after the ministerial decision has been pending in the coming days. I would like to thank the Ministers in particular. In the difficult circumstances created by the pandemic of the coronary, we continue consistently, responsibly and methodically our reform work. We are serving society and the citizens and we are determined to exhaust every financial margin to stimulate the market, to support businesses and workers, to strengthen the Greek society and economy, in order to address the adverse effects of the coronary pandemic on the business environment. We stand by those who have been most affected by the unprecedented reality that we are experiencing. We prove that we are listening to society and its problems. All movements by the Government and the Ministry responsible show the truth. Society will remain united and upright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u328	Mr Spankis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u329	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are right to complain, but our Parliament must also pass this bill and the amendments. Because this government is the government of consistency and what it says is doing. Because we are returning the retroactively to pensioners, we are bringing positive regulations and we are not bringing any negative legislation. I invite you and I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Committee, to tell me an article which affects the Greek taxpayer, an article that has a negative sign. So do you want to stay in the process or look at the substance? Today we have to talk and vote on an important bill for society and the economy. It's the last bill before the House closes for a few days of summer holiday. The bill isn't small. It's a lot of articles, too. And we have basic amendments that will bring about the recovery of the Greek economy. I'm very proud to be on this side. I am proud of our Government, which is making promises and bringing provisions with considerable fiscal incentives to attract investment and incomes in our country, the "GEOFYRA" programme with relief measures for companies, workers and branches affected by the coronary. Measures for borrowers. We really are protecting the first residence. Our economic policy meets our election commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago from the Step that the Prime Minister of the country submitted to the Minutes a table of what amounts from the repayable advance 1 and 2 went to natural and legal persons and what amounts they went as special-purpose allowances. You're really going to ask: But, well, that's enough? The answer is no. But this government has had a strong reflexive effect on the needs of society. For example, in my constituency, a region with large markets such as Glyfada, Kallithea, Painting and other municipalities, which we also have areas such as the Tauro region, natural and legal persons from the repayable advance of 1 and 2 received over EUR 200 million! So if you, gentlemen, do not believe in the government, the financial staff and the reflexes he has shown, then I am very sorry. That's the beginning. Because a few weeks ago our country, the Prime Minister and our government lifted up the Greek flag by taking 72 billion! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today we have seen the Chief of Officerial Response who has tried to underestimate this great Greek success. So, with this bill, we set specific criteria and open up an umbrella of social protection for many, for all, and not for the few as you said and blamed. Because we've been judged, gentlemen of counterpopulation! We are also opening up a substantial dialogue on future legislation on the substance of legislation, such as the abolition of presumptions at first home. We are aboard - we are the first government to do this - the consistent borrowers, because so far all governments have provided services to the batters. We are also bringing provisions on the abolition of the donation tax, on the acquisition of first residence. In today's bill, which we all have to vote for, we are laying the foundations for a stable tax policy, which was a pre-election commitment. We are opening up a dialogue with society, we are actually bringing development incentives and rational provisions. We have some small first-reading arrangements, however, which are equally important, because they show the attitude of the current government and its intention of substantial interventions, such as the reduction in VAT provided for in Article 11 and Article 12 for books on music and sports tickets. We have other essential provisions for the out-of-court resolution of pending tax disputes, for reductions in rates and improvements in the customs code to facilitate trade, for rationalisation of car taxation and for measures to favour the acquisition of new and non-polluting vehicles. However, I would like to dwell on the provision on protection measures and sanctions in the cases of attacks, threats or obstruction of the work of auditors and officials of the Independent Public Income Authority. It is very recent that the unprecedented violent incident in Kosanis, which resulted in the injury of three officials, two of whom were very serious and were added to a series of similar cases against ADP officials, which in recent years have increased both in frequency and intensity. I say a great deal of work to the Minister - who also comes from the tax field - for the immediate introduction of measures which impose additional sanctions and tighten the existing ones for the offenders. We also have provisions to cover the full costs of hospitalisation and recovery in the event that they are not covered by their insurance institution for employees who have suffered physical harm. You want to talk about the tax advance? You see that the government brings a regulation that is favourable to the advance payment of tax, which understands the needs of companies, and understands the need for taxpayers. In this bill we also have the 2020 discharge from the HNPH for owners of property in the affected areas of 23 and 24 July 2018, the extension of a payment deadline for tax declarations for natural and legal persons, for the equivalent transport scheme, for the mechanism to prevent late payment to third parties by OTA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - we have a bill that is characterised by good, substantial tax interventions, which is framed by ambitious financial instruments, which strengthens competitiveness and strengthens business. We have relief measures for society and the economy. We are moving forward in modernising and simplifying procedures. That is why we must all support it for the future of the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u330	Thank you. The Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, has the floor for three minutes strictly and then it is Mr. Maravegias. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, for three minutes, I will speak, because today we have a number of provisions which are important and demonstrate the Government's interest in the very important sector of tourism. Firstly - it is the most recent - with a legal improvement to the special subsidy that the government will give to the CCEE and TRAINOSE - because they have been hit by a 65% reduction in the places they can carry, which is very important for their turnover - we are extending it to tourist buses, to businesses which have tourist buses. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That was an injustice if you want. We are doing this to help these businesses that have been substantially affected by this crisis and by necessary decisions on health grounds by the government for 65%. The reason I wanted to take these three minutes, but it is another reason why we must support a very important action, the third action from the point of view of strengthening internal tourism. The government with this bill - and I thank the Treasury publicly for this proposal from the very beginning - has been establishing the operatives for both private businesses and domestic tourism this year. From this step by step I call on businesses to contact tourists and to provide these kinds of arrangements for their employees so that they can reduce the cost of the holidays of the Greek worker and benefit the tourist industry. We believe that this measure is necessary, it is essential and at least EUR 10 million - I may count on 20 million - can be activated in tax exemptions, which will help internal tourism. I would remind you, Mr President, that this is the third measure of the Government for domestic tourism. The first was the strengthening of the OAED Social Tourism Programme from 10 million to 30 million, and secondly, it increased even more to 37 million. Thirty-seven million, then, in social tourism. The second is the "Tourism For All" programme of our Ministry of Tourism. We revived it from the last time it had run in 2013-14 to 5 million. The government has given 30 million for this programme, but this programme has exceeded all expectations. Over four hundred and fifty thousand applications were put in place, which, in fact, was trying to withstand all these applications. They were over seven hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries, because there are protected members. The government is now coming to announce that it is increasing the amount from 30 million to 100 million for the "Tourism For All" programme of the Ministry of Tourism, a substantial programme that will help every family to go on holiday this year and, of course, tourist businesses, which in a number of areas are based on domestic tourism. Because we all understand that external tourism cannot have the results it has had in previous years. The government, with its 100 million "Tourism For All", with the 37 million Social Tourism, with over 10, maybe 20 million Voucher's programme, which, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote tonight, in practice, demonstrates that domestic tourism will be a strong, substantial pillar of support for every worker in the tourism sector for our country this year. That is why we call on the opposition to vote for this amendment, because it will thus prove in practice that it wants to support tourism in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u332	Mr Maraveyas has the floor for seven minutes, followed by Mrs Ahtsoglou as Parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u333	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis remains faithful to what he committed to the Greek people. One of our main commitments was the gradual reductions in taxes, commitments made horizontally for taxes relating to all Greeks, such as HICPIA and income tax, but also targeted reductions that run vertically entire productive sectors and business activities. Today's bill comes to confirm that the New Democracy continues on the same line. In other words, it implements the gradual application of tax relief and the provision of tax incentives for investment or an increase in consumption. I begin by extending the exemptions from the calculation of employees' incomes to the benefit of workers. A characteristic example is the facilitation of the free provision of shares by companies to workers as a reward or a reward. Their only tax will be charged at a fixed rate of 15% exclusively on the value that the worker will receive, if and when he sells them. It also reduces the taxation of money donations and parental benefits from parents to their children for the first home purchase. In particular, a tax rate of EUR 150 000 is paid and a free payment of parental benefits and parental leave is abolished in order to obtain their children the first residence. Article 8 provides that the Government is to make a commitment to exempt, in particular for the tax year 2019, from the trade charge of all farmers, the normal VAT arrangements, as well as coastal fishermen by fishing vessels up to 12 metres. Another extremely important tax relief is the regulation to reduce the advance payment of income tax for all businesses. In more detail, the advance tax payment for the year 2019 of all legal persons, as well as individual enterprises, is reduced according to the reduction in turnover. In fact, the advance payment of income tax is zero for tourist businesses, whose turnover is mainly during the summer season and for air transport. The above regulations seek to provide financial support for enterprises, through the stimulus of their liquidity, in order to address the adverse effects of the coronary pandemic, mainly concerning the tertiary sector. Another article on transport also reduces the registration fee for hybrid cars and, in general, favours the registration of new technologies vehicles. In particular, the registration fee for low pollutant hybrid cars is reduced while the 50% exemption for hybrid cars with more pollutants is maintained and the full exemption for electric motors. Additional incentives are thus given to replace the old contaminants I.C. and to stimulate the market. Mr Minister, I would like to dwell on Rule 11, which has also been made to you. This regulation reduces the VAT rate quite rightly to 6% for music books in order to support the education of our children. However, apart from the musical books, which undoubtedly constitute a valuable educational aid, the same category is the geographical maps and the groundwater spheres which are an integral tool of the school process and, indeed, of compulsory education. At this point, I would like to highlight the unfair burden on parents and school committees from the sharp increase in the VAT rate imposed by the SYRIZA Government on these educational aids, by raising their taxation to 24%, and at the time when all the countries of the European Union maintain these products in a reduced VAT scheme. For example, Germany at a rate of 7% and Italy at 4%. All the relevant information is detailed in the amendment I have tabled and I am sure that you will consider it carefully, as the impact on public revenue is negligible. Mr President, I should like to conclude by saying a few words about the Ministry of Finance's amendment, and first of all about the extremely positive extension of the submission of declarations of income tax. The fact is that the accountants have recently been charged with many corporate tax operations and have at the same time taken up a number of declaratory obligations, insurance and labour, as well as citizens' requests for financial benefits. I have promoted you on relevant memos from the Association of Fiduciary Professionals of Magnesia, where their main and most reasonable request is that the dates of the various submissions should not coincide with their deadlines for not taking account of the holidays. I am sure that you will address this request positively and that there will soon be a similar response from the Ministry of Labour. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Finance for two measures showing the social sensitivity of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis: I am talking about the honorary provision to the fighters of Cyprus for lifelong retirement. These days, forty-six years ago, Greek soldiers wrote new pages of heroism and self-sacrificing in the zone, fighting in Nicosia and northern Cyprus, not for prices and recognition, but for the homeland. Another symbolic, but also substantial, intervention is the provision for the discharge of the ETUC from the affected in Matti. It is certain that the victims of the 2018 fire disaster did not think of such days two years ago either tax exemptions or financial benefits. What they wanted - and they want - is that the hundreds of their two dead should be vindicated. This is the state's great debt to them. And that is what our Government will do toward them to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, too. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor. Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have half the time, because Mr. Tsipras has spoken. Of course, you can take time from both your dentology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just lived another moment of smuggling from Mr Brutsi, in his friendly tactics to legislate hidden. Just the same thing he had done a year ago, leading all opposition parties to leave the Chamber. It came on the last day, on the last, literally, at a time before the summer holidays and tabled an amendment which culminated in a series of working rights completely hidden. He did the same today. In fact, he did not even have the courage to sit for five minutes and to tolerate the criticism and comment of the Opposition. However, things are even worse today, because Mr Brutsi has also tabled an amendment to which he has not referred at all. And it is the most serious of all the amendments. It is the amendment to retroactive pensioners. I have not heard Mr Brutsi make a position on this matter. He deliberately did not do it, because he knows exactly what he is legislating and which is a constitutional coup. I'll explain why that's it. The question of pensioners' retrospectives is extremely serious. He came here a few hours ago by the Prime Minister and made some announcements very serious, extremely problematic, I shall speak politely - inaccurate. I think it's not his responsibility. It's the responsibility of the man who informed him about it. What exactly is going on? Some time ago, the Council of State made a pilot decision and reiterated some of the main criticisms already made since the summer of 2015. He said that as he had already judged since the summer of 2015, the cuts made by Mr. Brutsis as Minister of the Government of Samaras - Venizelos under Law 4093/2012 and No 4051/2012 were unconstitutional. What were these cuts involved? They were cuts in the main pensions, cuts in supplementary pensions and cuts in pensioners' presents. So the Council of State said that these cuts were unconstitutional. He also said to the Council of State that this unconstitutionality was cured by the law of SYRIZA by insurance law n.4387/2016, the well-known Katorugalou law. So, since May 2016, there is no question. What did he also say to the Council of State? He said that it was due to the pensioners retrospectively for these unconstitutional cuts by Mr Brutsi concerning - I repeat - main, subsidiary and gifts for the ninth month, from the summer of 2015, when it was the first decision, until the 2016 Katrugalos Law, in May 2016, when the problem was healed. This month, the Council of State clearly stated that it was retrospectively due to the fact that it was mainly, subsidiary and gifts. I read the decision because the Prime Minister has fallen into the slip to say that we have not studied the decision. This is the decision of the Council of State some time ago: 'Law 4051/2012 provided for reductions in the main pensions, as well as supplementary pensions, and further provided for further reductions and abolition of pensioners' allowances. These cuts are considered to be unconstitutional.' It is these, Mr President, and auxiliaries and gifts. They are due - it says - retrospectively for the nine months from the summer of 2015 to May 2016. So Mr. Mitsotakis came here today. This amendment has also been tabled, in which, as Mr Brutsi has rightly said, it has not been mentioned, that he will only retrospectively give for the cuts in the main pensions, with a recent decision by the Council of State to say something quite different. He said - and I have said - that this move fully satisfys what the Council of State decided and what pensioners are entitled to. In fact, he swinged the finger and said: "At this point. There is more than that." Nor is it even more false that this payment of the pension retroactives satisfying the Council of State's decision and fully satisfying the rights of pensioners. More clearly, you could say it with numbers. Retrospectives, due to pensioners, are 3.9 billion. Look at the amendment that has been tabled to you, what amount does it provide for? It's 900 million. Today, in other words, the Prime Minister came here and announced a strong haircut of retrospective pensioners. Secondly, the Prime Minister said that as soon as Mr Tsipras pointed this out to him, it is not about subsidiary and gifts - no falseer, I have read you the village of the decision - and the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is here, and he says this incomprehensible. That's why I talked about a coup d'état. Retired persons' claims for reductions in supplementary pensions and leave allowances are amortised. That is to say, the amendment is coming at the moment and is legally abolishing the claims, which the Council of State considered to be entitled to the cuts made by the State by Mr Bruts in 2012 by the State. This is a constitutional and legal coup. He also made a third reference to the Prime Minister and said that there is, of course, a budgetary issue. I do not know if that is what the Prime Minister meant by saying that he does not do what is due to pensioners. However, to explain ourselves and because this is not the case with people who have not managed portfolios and do not know how the country's budgets are, we are not talking about a parametric measure here. Here, we are talking about a single cost. Once the Stability Pact has been suspended this year, that is, we have no ceiling on expenditure that we can implement in budgetary terms, there is no problem. On the contrary, there is a window of opportunity for such an expense to be incurred in the range of 3.9 billion, an opportunity which may not be possible in the coming years if there are targets for primary surpluses. The question, of course, is whether Mr Mitsotakis meant that there is a question of liquidity. So since we have not had a problem with what expenditure we can make this year as a state, a financial issue, a liquidity problem, and it does not pay those 3.1 billion? If it has a liquidity problem and does not pay it as it should - because the Council of State told him - then one must explain what exactly has happened to the security pillow left by the SYRIZA government. Because, if there is no liquidity problem, the money should be fully paid to the pensioners. Here, we need an answer to this issue. Is there a question of liquidity? What happened to the security pillow? Why is this expenditure not being spent this year, since we can do so and the pensioners can be fully satisfied? Mr Brutsis comes in and talks about other things completely, about another amendment, which he has also tabled concerning outstanding pensions and work. Outgoing pensions: I will never enter a new conversation again. Mr Brutsis himself has been exposed from all means, in all possible ways, to this issue. Within a year it has increased the outstanding pensions by 100 thousand. It is lodged by the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget Office. They confess to the funds. He confesses to the General Accounting Office of the State. It admits EUROGROUP. They even admit it media, which are relevant to the government, such as "Kathimerini" with its recent headline page. Only Mr Brutsis remains to say that he is doing very well in this area. I will leave that in the citizens' judgement. What is coming here to do as a solution to this problem? It comes to increase - it says - a little how much one gives temporary pensions, that is not to say, to find a way to clear pensions, but to increase the amount of temporary pensions. I think this is the answer to how it has been achieved within a year to double the outstanding pensions, I really raise my hands up and let pensioners appreciate that. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I come to the last of my work, because he has tabled an amendment to work and I really wonder, but it is for what the Minister is not here. It's for that very reason that he's not here. Does Mr Brutsis really have a picture of what is happening on the labour market? I honestly ask. You're talking to anyone who's working? You're talking to a worker's representative, any trade union organization, any work centre? Where we go tours across the country, the workers' centres tell us they can't talk to the Minister of Labour. He refuses to access them, refuses to enter the Ministry, refuses to speak to them. Who are you talking to? Where do you form an opinion on what happens in the labour market? Should we tell you what's going on in the labour market? 80% of the employees in the tourist areas, Corfu, Rhodes, Kos, Crete, have not returned to their jobs. 50% of food workers have not returned to their jobs as a whole throughout the country. Those who are lucky to return to their jobs, return in terrible terms, with reduced wages, do not know on what terms they work, what working hours. Employees in the private sector at the moment do not take leave of summer holidays because at the beginning of the pandemic the government did not take care of this government saying that the absence from work on the basis of a mandate will not be offset by their permissions, and at the moment people in the private sector cannot take leave of holidays because the employer tells them that they have already used it in March when they were away because of the pandemic. Thousands of workers are currently being mobilized in the country for the poor allowance that you have made as the only solution to work at the moment. Hundreds of thousands of others are out, tour guides, taxi drivers in tourist areas. The workers are showing themselves. What does the Ministry of Labour answer to all this problem? It comes and brings about an amendment which makes a number of bumps in the two things, of which all these problems have arisen, i.e. suspension of contracts of employment again, extension of the extension, that is to say, continuing to subdue unemployment and the famous 'COMPAN - WORK' programme, which, in general, is totally unsuccessful. He's coming again to do a patch again on a completely failed program that no one uses. That is what the Ministry of Labour answers in this situation, which currently exists on the market. This is, in my opinion, an ideological obsession with wrong recipes, which in practice prove to be socially dissolving every day. We have a humanitarian crisis in the country right now, especially in the tourist regions. Again, as we had at the end of 2014. So, socially, completely dissolving consequences of these ideological policies and economically also disastrous. Minister, you know very well what the state is about public revenue, what a hole there is at the moment in public revenue and insists on the Ministry of Labour in a tactical subsidisation of unemployment and wage cuts, an ideological policy, extremely disastrous social policy. Change it. Stop this downhill. It doesn't work out anywhere. Understand that you are too far away from the problems of social reality and change the way and don't be so afraid. Tell your Minister not to be so afraid of controversy within Parliament as well. If that's possible! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u336	The next speaker is Mr Stefanos Gikas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer Mrs Ahtsoglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u338	Let's keep going. Is that urgent?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u339	Let me answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u340	You have the possibility, by the end of the meeting, which will arrive at dawn, to give as many answers as you want. Pick up anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u341	I'd be done now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u342	If we do so, Mrs Ahtsoglou will have to ask for the floor again for a reply and we are delaying. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u343	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Dogman, you have the list in front of you. Five speakers have spoken from a list of forty speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u345	In three minutes the conversation would have been over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u346	Look. The two or three minutes, which they usually ask for, are not respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u347	I'll be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u348	Is there anything you should clarify to Mrs Ahtsioglu about what she said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u349	He said things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u350	You're an attorney, Mr. Minister? Please. He doesn't need an attorney. Minister, two minutes strict, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ahtsoglou, let us clarify a few things, because I hear you keep saying the same thing and the opposite. You're talking about a hole in public revenue. He said your Chief will have 12% recession and at the same time you think giving 3.9 billion is not a small issue, because we have been given an unlimited opportunity to spend. We don't have unlimited capacity to spend. There's no money. We must spend what we spend, spend in budgetary terms. At the moment, prudence includes not only what we can give retired people, but also what we can give workers. You come and ask us to give much more to the workers and, at the same time, to give more to the pensioners. Secondly, you know very well that the trial in the Council of State was pilot and concerned only the main pensions. That's what the decision's operative part says, which is what it counts. The rest are legal thoughts, which will be judged when time comes to judge. As far as coup d'état is concerned, you also know very well that the regulation - it says in paragraph 4 - does not occupy the pending court proceedings. This regulation, therefore, does not concern at all matters that the Council of State considers to be relevant. It concerns matters which the Council of State does not consider to be relevant. You saw that I'm done in two minutes, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u352	Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u353	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u355	Now we're going? Uh, no. Please! Did he falsify anything you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u356	I'm a parliamentary representative and I have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u357	Let's respect the MPs!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u358	Now what? You're not helping the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u359	I've been very helpful in the process. I am SYRIZA's parliamentary representative and I have the right to speak. First...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u360	I didn't give you the floor. Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u361	Minister, the Prime Minister said so this morning too. Don't repeat it. It does not say the decision is about the main pensions. I read you the operative part of the decision. Don't insist on repeating a lie. The decision is clear. I'm reading to you. I'm a lawyer. Respect what I tell you and go talk to your legal advisers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u362	I read it, it's not about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u363	Your legal advisers tell you things that run counter to the pure grammar wording of the decision. The decision is clear. The cuts made in 2012 which concern main, subsidiary and gifts are unconstitutional and are retroactively due to them. Secondly, you say that money is wisely spent. Are the money not wisely spent when we implement a decision of the Council of State? What's that? Is it without wisdom to implement the decisions of the country's Supreme Court? What is the wisdom? Is the wisdom to spend the money on the Pecha list with the media? Is that the wisdom? This is the cost wisely, but 3.9 billion for pensioners isn't spending wisely?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u364	Please don't interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u365	Thirdly, I shall close, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u366	It's not relevant...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u367	Very relevant, Minister. We're talking about expenditure. It's too much of a deal. Third and I'll be done. You keep talking to money, which will be given to pensioners or workers, to be money that goes into a black hole. "We have no money to spend to support them." Do you understand the functioning of the wages on the market? Do you understand what consumer power is going to say? Do you understand what internal demand means? Do you understand what the state would say to support workers' wages and the market in this way? You are talking as this money that we are proposing to support the workers of this place to be money thrown into Cavalas. Well, that is a completely distorted logic that destroyed us as a country already since the austerity practices of 2012. It would be advisable to revise it relatively soon, because things are going from bad to worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u368	All right, all right. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u370	No, no, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u371	Excuse me very much, but he asked for the floor for two minutes instead of one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Gika, come to Stepma. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u373	Please apply the Rules of Procedure. You don't apply him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u374	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u375	You don't apply him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u376	Well, that can't be. Excuse me very much, ping pong now will we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u377	Aren't you going to give the government two minutes to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u378	There are so many amendments on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u379	We are talking about this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u380	As I saw in the situation that parliamentary representatives are being followed, you will certainly have enough food to comment on or to clarify it. So let's move on to the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u381	Now I want to comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u382	Give me thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u383	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u384	There are so many colleagues on the list of speakers who have been waiting since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u385	You've done it for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u386	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u387	You refuse to give me the floor, from the beginning, for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u388	Mr. Gika, you have the floor. Minister, please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u389	However, the Minister was just two minutes and you gave Mrs Ahtsoglou 150% more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u390	I was two minutes. You are violating the Rules of Procedure and you are discriminatory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u391	Quiet, quiet. Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u392	I will start with something that I consider to be extremely important today. It is the government's decision to give this honorary provision to Greek armed forces, fighters of 1974, '64 and '67. This is an important move that our government is making. At this point I will say that 13 years ago, in July 2007 again, the New Democracy Government, for the first time, at a memorial ceremony at the Military School of Hope, having brought from all over Greece fighters of the Cyprus of 1974, gave traditions and souvenirs, knowing the struggle of these people. Thirteen years later, the New Democracy Government again honors these fighters. On the same day - I have to say this, to comment on it - the young SYRIZA with a media announcement goes to Grammos and Vicci on the paths of the rebels for an alternative camping. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that in the context of national reconciliation, I would expect, at least after so many years, that SYRIZA youth would go apart from the paths of the rebels and the paths of the national army, at the three borders, at the Prophet Elias, Myrovetis, Tsarnos, Skidzis and elsewhere, because I fear that, at this time in particular, there is a need for an irreversible national unity, such movements of political youths, and indeed, of the Officerial Response, do not offer a national service at the place. I'm actually in the bill. This bill is a multi-project, which really covers a broad context. We have heard the ministers, with important contributions on many issues. I'm going to stand on two, three of what I consider to be extremely important. Firstly, it is the 'GEOFSRA' programme. Of course, we have heard the Chief of Staff Responsibility think that it is not a programme right and that he has an ideal solution. However, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, with this programme, for nine months - for these difficult nine months - and the consequent borrowers, but also those who cannot respond, they are given the opportunity with the state's intervention to be helped considerably, provided, of course, that they have the main residence as a mortgage. It is quite extended and will help significantly, as long as I remind you that for the loans provided, which are not just housing, are also operational, for the first quarter, 90% of the monthly instalment is covered. It is very important that this possibility is given. On the other point I would like to raise is the many tax interventions that our Government brings to the best, and I will place myself at the forefront of, firstly, the incentives given to pensioners from abroad to create a tax home in Greece, namely, to transfer their money here with a tax of 7% for fifteen years, which is happening abroad, is best practice in Europe. It will help our economy very much. Let me remind you of that, we had set that up in our election programme. It also abolishes the autonomous taxation of 10% for parental cash benefits, for parents to their children, in other words, for first homes, and this will help the new family very much, so that they can build their homes and, of course, it will help build a building that we are in the midst of a crisis and are affected. Another important tax intervention is the reduction - it is very important - even the zeroing of the advance payment of income tax for the tax year 2019. This is what the market is expecting, Minister, and the law will have to be implemented immediately, because tax declarations have already gone ahead. There's more. The government commitment to suspending the trade fee for farmers and fishermen and many other important ones is being implemented. But I would like, Minister, to say about an injustice that exists. It's about the retireds of the former Commercial Bank, which is about five thousand. It is the only group of pensioners who continue to apply the reductions of the Katrugalo Law, and perhaps if we cannot at this stage, you will have to consider it, Minister, or the relevant ministers, in order to correct this injustice. In conclusion, this is an important bill. Indeed, it contains a lot of articles, a lot of amendments, but it is the best ones, and that is why I call on you all to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u393	The Minister of State, Mr. Skulakakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u394	I'm not going to make a full speech to respect this Chamber. I'm just going to give some answers about what was actually said here. First, as you know very well, the appeal brought by the FBI for a pilot trial only concerned the main pensions. It was neither subsidiary nor gifts. Secondly, the decision of the CSR concerns those who have relied solely on those who have relied on them. The regulation we are doing here concerns those who have not renounced, only those who have not taken refuge. For those who have specifically appealed, it is stated that the arrangement does not take such trials beyond reasonable. The money of the main pensions will take it, without having to finish the trials. This is to have a real picture. Finance is my primary responsibility. To think that spending money creates wealth is exactly what brought us to the crisis. We spent money we didn't have. The money we spend today is loan. It must be clear. At the moment, everything we spend is loan. It will take at least one year to return the economy where it was at the beginning of 2020. These borrowings are not taken from a magic pillow, which has risen, which is and we can spend tens of billions of dollars there. We're getting them off the markets. That is why we keep the cash. I remind you that SYRIZA left us in a period of non-crisis at a bond rate close to 4% and we're at 1%. We'd gone to 1% before the crisis. With the help of the credibility we have in the institutions and markets we have managed to be now and after the crisis at 1%. So if we hadn't anticipated the purchases, the pillow she left us, as SYRIZA and Ms. Ahtsoglou said, would have gone away long ago. Because no one who owes around 330 billion is saved because he has a cushion of 35 or 37 billion of whom 16 are with the approval of the ESM, especially when he asks for additional money and is likely to want to spend additional money from borrowers and in 2021. It is inconceivable, then, to behave as if we have discovered a magic way to have money. Finance is a difficult and delicate case. You don't have to make exaggerations on one side or the other. You must be counted. To come to say "give 50 billion directly because we have a pillow", as the Qualified Antipolis said, and then "give 4 billion more retrospectively" and "give", "give", "give", you understand that it is neither responsible nor sustainable behavior. I understand that opposition has no reason to be responsible and sustainable today when it has the past of 2015, when within six months it dissolved the country's economy and sent it back for years. I realise that he is trying to identify a pandemic and the crisis that this pandemic brings with the government in order to be able to gain political benefit, but the Greek people are not interested in it. The Greek people are interested in their real problems and expect real solutions and real answers. The opposition, as soon as he went where he is, insists on following a silk policy as if he'd discovered Midas' wallet. When he was in the government, in the first phase, he smashed us into the air, and in the second he followed a senseless tax-suppressive policy. He doesn't have a way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, in the next few years, the economy will go much better, but in order for it to go much better, we must maintain what we have worked to restore, namely the confidence of the institutions and the confidence of the markets. Trust is the best pillow this country can have. As long as we have this very big debt, we must guard confidence as an eye daughter. We are not going to put her at risk to compete with any opposition. We will behave responsibly, as we have done so far, and this crisis will come to an end. The economy will go much better in the next few years. We will make use of the money of the package that we have earned after hard work and suffering in Europe, but we will do so responsibly, measured, realistically, when appropriate and as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u395	We invite Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou Anna from New Democracy to Step. Mr. Hetas and Karathanasopoulos will follow. Mrs. Manny, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u396	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, made a decisive contribution to making a historic decision on our country, but also on the European structure and the future of the peoples of Europe. So the newly created Recovery Fund, in response to the financial implications of the pandemic, ensures for our country a huge sum of EUR 72 billion. It is money, which will be exploited wisely - yes, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response - and planning for the benefit of all Greeks, in order to relieve those affected by the health crisis, but above all to create a new growth model that will bring jobs and make our economy competitive. This is a great opportunity for our country. Let all Greeks be sure that the New Democracy Government will not let her go lost. This very dual objective also serves the current bill of the Ministry of Finance, which, with targeted interventions, seeks to relieve citizens and businesses of the consequences of the pandemic and, on the one hand, to create a favourable tax environment that attracts investment and promotes growth. So, in particular, a regulation with a clear development mark is what enables pensioners from foreign countries, particularly in Europe, to transfer their tax residence to Greece, giving them the incentive to lower taxation at a rate of 7% on their earnings. This is a measure with a high development perspective both for our tourism and for the real estate market, as it is expected that a number of these pensioners will turn to either the market or the long-term rental of homes in our country with multiple benefits for both the national and local economies. As far as Europe is concerned, according to EUROSTAT, the population of over sixty years amounted to around 183 million in 2017 and by 2050 it will reach 247 million. In fact, the revelation of today's regulation has already been promoted in the European press, making it a special feeling. In particular, the German economic newspaper 'HANDELSBLATT' and the magazine 'FOCUS' are already hosting extensive reports, noting that this is a particularly attractive proposal for retired people in Europe who are encouraged to move their residence from the cold north to the sunset south. I cannot say at this point that this regulation is an excellent opportunity for my country, Pieria, a tourist destination, with a large number of accommodations suitable for retired people's residence, but also with infrastructures for health, entertainment and support which people are usually looking for. Above all, it provides a natural environment with unparalleled and ideal weather conditions that make it one of the most attractive destinations. Further regulation with also a clear development dimension is the abolition of taxation with 10% of the financial parental benefits and donations for the first home purchase of up to EUR 150,000. It is a measure that facilitates young people to acquire their first home, but also strengthens the real estate market and the business sectors that are active around it. The bill includes a number of tax reliefs. One of the most important is that of Article 8, which implements the Government's commitment to suspending the payment of the trade fee for the tax year 2019, for the main professional farmers of the normal scheme. The government, ladies and gentlemen, practically supports the rural world, disguises its problems and responds to them as quickly as possible. In addition, the provision of Article 18, which reduces or even zeros the advance tax payment for 2019 is also crucial. The government, fully aware of the difficulties faced by businesses, particularly seasonal companies, reduces this tax burden, which SYRIZA's government had reached 100%. Finally, with the GFCF programme and the relative subsidy for government housing loan instalments, a significant breath is given to thousands of borrowers and, for the first time, the regulatory framework is expanded so that the consequent borrowers are also covered by this arrangement. At this point I would like to welcome the excellent amendment tabled by the Minister of Tourism, which extends the special purpose compensation already granted to the CBCs, the railways and the tourist buses, as well as the same amendment, increasing the funds for internal tourism, from EUR 30 million to EUR 100 million, which will give rise to the tourist regions. At this point, Minister, although it is not your responsibility, I would like to make a point, as there is a subsidy, of covering travel costs for ferry tickets. Perhaps it would be very important to cover travel expenses for those who want to make use of vouchers and address destinations in Continental Greece, because in Northern Greece we have been particularly affected after the Balkans by the reductions in bookings. In conclusion, I would not be able to comment on the Prime Minister's very important announcement of the one-off payment of the retrospectives, within the year, to all pensioners, and indeed, regardless of whether or not they have recourseed to justice. Of course, the argument put forward by the Chief of Staff, that the Government is obliged to pay retrospectives to everyone, does not have any legal basis. This obligation of the Officerial Representation would only exist in the case, which had been decided by the Supreme Special Court, which has binding force over everyone. In this regard, this is a clear political choice of the government. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not have the monopoly on sensitivity towards our pensioners. Let me remind you that you had forced them in 2015, in the middle of a heat, to stand in the tails to receive their minimum pensions from ATMs. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the unprecedented economic circumstances that have arisen because of the pandemic, the government is carrying out its reform work methodically. It tackles the problems of today, of the real economy and with targeted tax interventions it relieves thousands of households, farmers, borrowers and businesses. The citizens recognize the great effort made by the government and the Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, trust him, trust us, and this two-way relationship of confidence and honesty, the agreement of truth, is the greatest guarantee for today and tomorrow in our country. We move forward, with plan, wisdom, self-confidence and hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u397	The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Dogman, you said a great deal of truth today. I heard you a moment ago in your speech. I don't know if you were expecting me to start my speech like that, but you said one truth. The Greek people are interested in the real problems, you said, in answering SYRIZA. I do not know if you have understood what you said, that the Greek people are indeed interested in the real problems. Because if you knew and were your estate, the Greek people were interested in the real problems instead of your cohorts in here, you would gather some of your government MPs here, who climbed up with a tone of a thousand cardinals and said "Mr. Mitsotakis has brought us 72 million to share them". You'd pick them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u399	Billions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u400	Yeah. You'd pick them up. Because when you tell the Greek people that you brought a pug with 72 billion, you create them a picture differently. And when, Mr. Dogakakis - 31 July tomorrow - since September, Armageddon of seizures and evictions will come, then you will indeed have to hide somewhere. So, because you said a truth, which I would like to believe you have made it your property, the Greek people are indeed interested in the real problems and the real problems, Mr. Psulakakis, it is that Armageddon is coming. One hundred and forty thousand properties are trying to get to the hammer. One hundred and forty thousand properties. We are talking about seventy thousand families, houses where the crows of the funds and NGOs are waiting to grab them to give them where they want. They'll be in illegal immigrants, NGOs, Pakistani anywhere. We are going to live moments of Spain, unfortunately, Mr. Dogsky - I am afraid to say so and I am sad - of 2012. We'll watch people drag them out of their homes. So keep the ball down, don't feed the 72 billion, which doesn't exist anyway and tell the truth to the world, that is, the situation is very difficult. This platform relates to a number of borrowers, and is at 25% to 30%. If I'm wrong, I need you to fix me. The rest of them are at God's mercy. These people don't know what's gonna happen. The confiscations continue even now that we're talking, in the summer, in the summer. We're talking about an economic precipitation, 8% to 14% recession, depending on whether it suits you every time, put the ball. And we have the programme for GEOGRAPHY. You should know, because you are very experienced in economics, that with baptism there is no solution to economic problems. You're baptizing. You won't baptize the problem. It was not solved when we did the troika institutions, nor now will we solve the problem if we call it a 'GEYRA' programme. The substance counts, and the substance is that there is still the memorandum. So I will say, since you specialize in the baptisms, the tombstone program, in the first residence of Greeks and Greeks, because the bankers will be won again. These with great interest in the difficult times that come for the Greeks, Mr. Psulakakis. I now go to some other things, which are very important and need to be said. He made a comprehensive report by the President of Greek Solution this morning, because since the morning we have been here and we will catch and dawn as it turns out. And I'm going a little bit to Greek, because I see a satisfaction, I see a relief, I see an ad that we handled it well. Look out, I'm putting us all in, because it's a national matter. Although you're handling it, we've handled it, the Greeks are good. You should know that Turkey does not want war, believe me. The point is how to negotiate with them. Are we going to negotiate? Have you made a secret agreement? Would you sit at the negotiating table? We are not negotiating what is ours and what the Turks claim is ours. No dialogue. It's over and out. And I really wonder why you're celebrating. Would you like to sit at the negotiating table? You know, Mr. Dogfish, what the Turks want? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what conditions Turkey puts on the table to sit down and talk to you? That Kastelorizo doesn't have an EOZ. Secondly, it raises the issue of disarmament of the Aegean islands. It raises the issue of disarmament of the Aegean islands! Thirdly, it raises a blue country issue. Fourthly, it raises the issue of Cyprus and fifthly, it raises the issue of the EEZ of Turkey - Libya. That's what Turks think of. And that's what they go to sit on the table. And we're gonna sit with them? You can't do that. And if we want to sit down at some point, we will tell them that we claim Imbros and Tenedo, we claim the liberation of our Cyprus, we claim the Greeks' compensation for the atrocities of the September in Constantinople and we claim the break-off of the monuments. That's what we're sitting here talking about. Will they? They're gonna run. And he said it yesterday. Yesterday morning, we were here again. "Don't look at "Oruts Race," Velopoulos told you. ‘Where is Barbaro?’. And at night he came out in the news report that "Barbaros" sails and walks out of Cyprus. And the worst part isn't that. The worst part is that the Prime Minister's security advisor was morning and night and stayed in his place. You should have stopped him from his duties because it is the multitude of times that he does, to dare to publicly separate Cyprus from Greece. That's not happening anywhere. It's worse than Rosaki, Doku, and everyone else. So this competition takes precedence over Mr. Diakopoulos who is a national security consultant. "They are two different things," he says. It's something different from what we were talking about, Cyprus, Greece. What else can we do? How much self-government do we really have? I am going to another topic, because we have also mentioned this too many times, the question of tightening up penalties in general or how we are dealing with - if you like - some facts. You know, in the Preveza my father and my brother live, and I'm half that way, the eighty-year-old Minister, who was raped and abused by a 40-year-old Pakistani. We propose and have said many times: a referendum on the reintroduction of the death penalty. Can't he? Aren't we in the European Union? Referendum. Listen a little, we need to tighten up the penalties, lifelong or chemical castration. It's no different. We have this example and we also have on the side of the sentences, Minister, Serious poacher who facilitated illegal immigrants with thirty-two months in prison with a three-year parole period. Well, didn't we say that these people have to get in life and never see the sun again? We're pressing them to do the same crime again. These people are criminalizing our homeland, carrying human souls and exploiting human suffering. And he ate thirty-two months and parole. He'll never get in there. And he'll do his job again. And I'm going on with another matter. I will not take Mrs Ahtsoglou's time at twelve minutes, Mr President, to stop at nine. Yesterday's protest by the women of West Lesvos against illegal immigration and NGOs, I didn't see it anywhere. I didn't see her in a news report. Some afflicted Greek women in Lesvos made a protest yesterday. They were women of all ages and shouted: 'No to NGOs, not illegal immigrants, not to new structures, not to open borders'. At the end of the protest they signed a resolution on this subject, searched the national anthem and left in peace. Evidently, they were not "nurses" the women who gathered, the afflicted ones. A story I didn't hear. And I'm saying this to close with some episodes. I don't know if there's a Thessalonician here. Yesterday in St. Demetrius, he became a Far West again. Pakistani people have been killed. And that's what happens every day in the squares, in the local communities and everywhere. It's everyday now. The police said they were too dangerous the particular people they caught, arrested and the next day they left the other door, nothing happened. And I'm saying this to answer, because I wasn't in Mr.Adonidos Georgiades' bill last night, who has suffered a mutation that I don't really understand, and I don't really understand it, and he happened to answer us and say that what the Greek Solution for Illegal Immigration is our sphere of imagination and that everything is well burned there. I would therefore like to reply to Mr Georgiadis, and I would like to close with that, Mr President, in the second half of 2019, in the six-month period that the New Democracy Government governs, we had a 300% increase in the influx of illegal immigrants with you, the ambiguities and the hard ones. We also have a table on it, because the lie has short feet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u401	Next speaker, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, Nikos Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. The masks for the government fell. Her political strip is a fact. The fairy tales he has so far said about supposedly creating well-paid jobs are devastated in the amendment - an abortion, an amendment - a crime for seafarers from the Ministry of Shipping. Like the thief, the shipowners' minister brought this amendment to the peninsula and had the courage to defend it. If this amendment were for the benefit of seafarers, it would have been twirled with twigs, but it was'swirled with the sprout on the back', as our people say. From this step we call on the President of the Parliament to take a stand on this procedure, because at the Conference of Presidents he stressed that any amendments which are of an urgent nature will be tabled have an end date. These amendments concerning seafarers and the maritime movement have no exceptionality, no expiry date, and the President of Parliament must block them now. The shipowners' minister tried to surprise and prevent the justified reactions of the maritime movement, but we warn him that his trouble is lost. Let's see the big picture. Shipowners have escaped over-profit over the years. It is huge that logistics is profitable, that they are constantly building new ships in the yards of China, in the yards of Japan and Korea. And all these profits have been made at the seafarers' backs in the rights that are being abolished, over-exploited, in their crippled bodies, because many of them are being crippled by this slavery. And while the fleet of shipowners is growing, seafarers are decreasing. How is that possible? It's very simple. The Minister said so. Of seventy thousand who were, today are only eighteen thousand Greek seafarers in seagoing shipping. Fifty-two thousand jobs have been lost, i.e. they have been converted into unemployment, while ships are multiplying. And what does it come up with and it says with this amendment? That this will strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek register. That is to say, it is not enough for the scandalous privileges of the shipowners to be taxed, with constitutional guarantees, where no other party dared to put this constitutionality on the target during the revision, but you also give new scandalous privileges to ship capital. You are carrying out with this amendment the constant pursuit of shipowners for the abolition of collective labour agreements. Today, shipping, tomorrow and the rest of the shipping industry. In addition, as our people say, 'the appetite comes'. Thus, with this provision you are creating literally 'older' conditions for seafarers in the seafarers' Potatoes. If it were something different, if this alteration in the position of seafarers were to improve, then how do you justify there are thousands who cannot find jobs, and, as you say, young children? It's a lie that the Minister said. There will be no more jobs on ships flying the flag of Greece, nor more Greek seafarers will work on them. Worse pay will be under terrible working conditions, under terrible conditions of health and safety. And of course, the attitude of the other parties has made us very impressed. So far 'toubled tobeki' has been doing for this particular matter. The government is sowing up winds, with this amendment, and it will reap storms. The seafarers will not leave this challenge unanswered. The procedure with retrospectives is also the same. Amid the celebrations and applause, the Prime Minister said here at noon that all retrospectives are being given, even to those who have not appealed. And what's the essence? That by this provision you are stealing pensioners. The government's making a huge theft of retired people, for it only gives 900 million for the main pensions. Retrospectives concerning supplementary pensions and gifts are deleted because it says so specifically in the amendment it has tabled, that all other claims by pensioners are amortised in relation to the retrospectives relating to gifts and subsidiary. From 3.9 billion to 3 billion euros and you give 900,000 000 euros. All 3.9 billion is nothing but a very small percentage of the huge theft made to pensioners by all governments, by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK and by SYRIZA. Indeed, Mrs Ahtsioglu wants very political courage here to say that they were cured by the Katrugalou Act what the Council of State had said as unconstitutionally unconstitutional. So what did the Katrugalu law do? He legitimized the reductions made by the Samara government to insurance, pensioners, the theft to the pensioners. Of course, there are also a number of other diffuse amendments, such as the acceleration of alternative measures, rotating work and the suspension of contracts. It is financed by the Government with the funds of the insurance funds themselves, providing incentives for business groups to employ and pay the State's insurance contributions. And all this so that capitalists and business groups can shield their competitiveness and profitability, undermining both insurance funds and labour rights. We made a comment to the Minister of Finance on the amendment to the hosts who were in Cyprus on these dates. We told him he needed attention. He did not refer to his position, which is why we are also posted by this Step. As a JRC we will support the amendment, but as a JRC we are demanding that we ensure that in no case will it be an honorary service or anything else, to anyone who took part in the coup against Makario in 1974. Therefore, those who participated in the coup should not receive this provision of honour, and that should be ensured. The government's decision must put this barrier in our view. Two words about the bill, for the way the government legislates is evident with this flood of amendments. The government is turning our country into a tax haven for the big foreign capital, to the detriment of workers and the populace. In other words, it is a challenge that the foreign pensioner who brings his tax seat to Greece should be taxed with 7% and that Greeks with 21% and 22%. It is theft against the Greek pensioners, to the detriment of the Greek people, workers, self-employed and professionals. Secondly, I would like to mention the GEOYRA programme, which is, in essence, the bridge to lift even these limited measures to protect the first home. The protection of the first residence is abolished as the sweater began to be dismantled by the government of SYRIZA. From this point of view, this programme does not only have a limited duration, it does not only exclude a number of categories, it still does not take into account those who will come out in the future and who will be unemployed through this capitalist crisis. At the same time, the main thing is financing banks from the state budget, and not only does it finance the banks, but basically it entangles the borrowers themselves in this logic by saying that they should continue to fulfil their debt obligations after nine months. Otherwise, if they do not do so, then the borrowers, the highly indebted households, will return to the state. We say that the private debt issue is a huge issue, and not the government, but the other parties, can deal with it in this way. It is not just the auctions that will be held for debts to the banks. These are the auctions that continue to be carried out for tax debts. More than 80% of the VAT VAT owed, they owe less than 20,000 euros. So they are all those who at the time of tax raid by the memoranda could not afford to pay the additional burdens. Auction can be made for debts to the insurance funds of the self-employed. Auctions can also be made by municipalities, as municipalities have done in the first place for debts and debts for over 500 euros. And that is a more comprehensive grid, which, of course, is one side. And in this mesh of private debt, which is the result of anti-linguistic government policy, the JRC has tabled a specific proposal for a law in which it was the only party that makes it clear that banks will have to pay the various proposals of one and the other party, which are basically called on either borrowers or taxpayers to pay back 100% of the value of their home to banks. From this point of view, therefore, the interest rates, grotesques and capital they owe to banks, taxpayers, insurance funds and may also be reduced by the municipalities to write off small debts which the popular layers have by decision of the municipal council. That's the only way to bring relief. This is the JRC's criterion, whether the banks will pay or whether the people will pay for the overcompensation of the people. From this point of view, the debate and confrontation that took place on the Development and Reconstruction Fund and on the billions of the European Union is an incontrovertible confrontation between the other parties, because, in essence, they cover the fact that these sums will be paid by the people of Europe and will also pay for them with taxation and the abolition of their rights, in the context of the reforms that will take place and, at the same time, will be financed by the large business groups. In the face of this development, therefore, the JRC tells the people that we cannot count afterwards, we will now account for the real enemy and the real enemy is capital, the needs of capital are the European Union and the governments. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u403	The next speaker is Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis from the New Democracy. Mr Stamenitis, Mr. Chartomas and Mr. Bougas, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, will be followed. Mr. Chrysop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u404	Thank you, Mr President. It is terrible, following today's debate, to see sincerely how unrepentant you are, colleagues from SYRIZA. The Minister for Labour has put forward an amendment, and I would at least expect the former Minister for Labour on SYRIZA - ANEL to come up with a great apologies, because this amendment is a major problem that she has created. Forty-five thousand beneficiaries for funeral expenses since 2015 pending with the amendment, without any auditing of documents, will automatically be credited to their accounts. And I wish those who deserve funeral expenses also to be alive. And instead of the former SYRIZA Labour Minister going up to ask for a big apology and say as a minimum sign that he is voting for the amendment, he came up and he was swinging the finger and criticized, on what subject? Which is where the retired people who didn't come down for retrospectives and didn't go to the courts will also take those who took out the courts for the rest of the retired. If that's possible! Keep it up, gentlemen of the Left! Keep going, so the people can constantly understand that there is no left of solidarity, there is no left of the poor, but it is the left of analgesia and hypocrisy! The world has taught you and that is why it is calling "never left again!" Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the current draft law of the Ministry of Finance, it best confirms the firm commitment of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to development measures, as we have committed ourselves to the Greek people. They are measures that alleviate citizens and businesses, reduce the burden of the consequences of the health crisis, give market development and correct mistakes and uncertainties of previous governance, which, as the then Minister of Finance said, was conducting a tax policy with a class mark. That's why he pissed off the middle class we're trying to fix. We correct mistakes and uncertainties, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for which you are coming today, move our finger and criticize us, rather than apologize. A characteristic example in today's bill is the "GEYRA" programme. Let us remember a little what your reaction was when the protection of first residence ended in December 2018, as your law laid down. Did you proceed to the introduction of a new protective framework, perhaps better than Katseli? No, of course not. You gave a temporary extension of two months, and after she ended, you brought in April 2019 a law with a six-month duration, which I would remind you, as a responsible opposition, had voted for and we extended it for another seven months until we prepared our own intervention. And now let's make the comparison. Your law, Law 4605, only covered those who had a non-performing loan. We cover all housing and business loans guaranteeing the first home until now, whether they are served or not, in order to alleviate the financial burdens created by the economic crisis and to reward - and I would like to stress this - as we have committed ourselves to the consistent borrowers, to stop feeling the naives, who are struggling every day and always in line with their obligations. Let's go to the numbers now. You remember I hope the suffocating framework of the eligibility criteria that you had established for non-performing loans. The balance of the loan should therefore not exceed 130,000 euros. We're up to 250,000. Family income with your own program should not exceed EUR 36,000. We put it up to 45,000. The statements had to be no more than 15,000. We're taking them to 25,000 euros. And finally, the total real estate with the SYRIZA program had to not exceed 280,000, and we put it up to 500,000. I think the comments are superfluous. Simple comparison for the citizens says everything. And I repeat that it does not only concern housing, and most of all it also concerns loans for business. At last, let the high criticism, the hollow words and come with a sense of responsibility to support this initiative by the Government which directly supports our fellow citizens who cannot serve their loans and reward the consistent borrowers. Support, if you like, all the other tax reforms included in the bill, which undoubtedly strengthen the growth potential of the Greek economy. I do not think I need to remind you - and we have said Monday - how much we have gone up to competitiveness indicators and direct investment. Tell us or rather, to say it better, tell the Greek people, tell the employees, farmers and free traders that you disagree and will not vote for provisions such as the reduction or even the abolition of the advance tax for 2019, in proportion to the fall in business turnover. Tell them that you will not vote for the exemption from the obligation to pay the trade fee for the principal farmers and coastal fishermen. Tell them that you will not vote for the abolition of the 10% autonomous tax on the money paid by parents to their children as a parental benefit for the purpose of buying house, a special feature of Greek society. Tell them and look them in the eye as you tell them that you will not support the provisions on vehicle registration fees, tariff exemptions, incentives for pensioners with tax residences abroad in order to transfer their tax residence to Greece and to be taxed here. Is this the responsible opposition you would've made? Is that your interest in Greek citizens? Our people are judging, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would not be able to refer to the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 422 and a special number of 57, and in particular its first article. I sincerely welcome your initiative, Mr Ministers, to continue to grant lifelong honorary provision of 200 euros to our soldiers who fought against the events of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974, but also to the events of 1964 and 1967, a constant request from the Association of Greek Warriors in Cyprus. Let's see at some point and the entire demands of our warriors in Cyprus, Mr Ministers, because we still have an open debt to them. Because it had to be twenty-two years since the recognition of these periods as wartimers for the Greek state with Law 4621/1998 and eight more years to enter into force in 2012 the presidential decree pending from 2001 on the award of honorary medal to our warriors, in order to reach the self-evident, to grant this minimum provision as an indication of honor to our fellow citizens who fought for Greek altars and restaurants, for the first time after World War II, against the Turkish invader. It's not a random time when this honorable life-long pension comes. I would expect there to be a spirit of consensus in this. Instead, what did I see? I saw SYRIZA's youth unrepentant going and doing festivals at division sites. It's okay. Maybe it's the best way to inspire her story. For, to refer to the late President of the Republic of Constantino Tsatsos, "a people who do not know his history is a people who have no future". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u405	The next speaker is Mr Dionysios Stamenitis from New Democracy, with the reminder not only to you, but also to all colleagues, to keep up with the seven-minute time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I cannot comment on the Prime Minister's communication today on the one-off payment of the retroactives to all pensioners who have suffered cuts in the main pensions in the framework of the decision of the Council. This is a political decision credited to the Government and Mr Mitsotakis, however much as SYRIZA colleagues want to convince us about the opposite. Aren't the retireds asking them if they're gonna take retrospectives if they haven't retreat to court? I am asked too many and the answer is that it covers them all. Whether they have appealed or not, they will benefit from this favourable regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent months, our country has admittedly been going through an extremely difficult period. The manifestation of the economic crisis by the emergence and spread of the coronary has caused a number of consequences for the entire range of public life and economic activity. We knew from the outset that the necessary restrictive measures and initiatives to protect public health would create a suffocating framework, with economic consequences, as was the case with all the countries that had to take measures. What is worth noting, however, and in fact it is primarily what concerns the Greek people more than they are hearing, is the fact that our country has managed to get out of this great adventure at less cost than some have estimated, with one of the best relative performances between the countries of the euro area. We must admit that even the most optimistic three months ago did not expect the recession eventually in the first quarter of 2020 to be only 0.9% after the occurrence of the coronary. The average of the recession in the European Union is 3.6%. All this is good to talk about because the hard stuff has gone through. However, we are not satisfied with the real figures either. We would all like the Greek economy to run at a faster rate of growth. We must, however, talk about it because it needs to be understood above all by those who have irresponsible criticism. It turns out that to overcome a difficult or extraordinary external crisis like the one that happened with the pandemic, you have to step on a well-organized design and act responsibly. Who knows what difficulties our economy would have to face today, if the Prime Minister and the leadership of the Ministry of Finance listened to Mr Tsipras at the beginning of the crisis, saying: 'Give it all up and give it up now'. Ladies and gentlemen, in this environment created since March last year the Greek Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have, as they all show, successfully given the fight to implement the New Democracy programme and the country to change the page. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance on tax interventions, the strengthening of the development process of the Greek economy, the incorporation into Greek legislation of the Directives of the European Union and the State's contribution to the repayment of loans for affected borrowers due to the adverse effects of the CIVID disease -19. Amongst the many regulations introduced by the tax bill, which is undoubtedly an attempt to create a friendly, healthy and developmental tax system, I would like to dwell on four plus one points: First, in the ‘GEOFYRA’ programme on the protection of first residence, which grants all housing and business loans to the main residence. Beneficiaries are all the people affected by the coronary. Here to note that the number of beneficiaries and those who are in fact protected is much higher than the previous government's regulations on the protection of first residence. Second point, to which I would like to stand as a Member from a basically rural region, is this trade suspension charge for farmers for 2019, a regulation added to the many and substantial interventions by the Government for the practical support of our producers, farmers and farmers, fishermen, greenhouses, asparagus, lambs and much more. Third point important and indicative that the country is changing philosophy in the way it chooses to grow financially is the arrangements for providing tax incentives for transferring the tax residence to Greece of pensioners abroad, compatible, as the Minister said in committee, and with European practices, a regulation with multiple benefits for our economy and more generally for the country's extroversion. Fourthly, in my view very important in the world of market and small and medium-sized business, is the provision for a reduction in a tax advance that in some cases can be zeroed according to the reduction of the turnover each company had in 2019. Here, Minister, there is a constant demand from free professionals, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, providing significant breath and highlighting the economic liquidity of local economies. And finally, before I close my position, I would like to focus in particular on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Finance, which provides lifelong service of EUR 200 to Greek soldiers who, during their term of office, participated in the events that took place in Cyprus in 1964, 1967, 1974, as has also been requested by their Union, a more symbolic, honorable and invaluable arrangement for the struggles and the invaluable offering of all those who gave the battle to the frontline for the defence of the country and the nation. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is another proof that Greece has changed. Our country has taken another road since 7 July and no one seems to be prepared to return to the uncertain and difficult yesterday. We have proved that we are ready to deal with the difficulties and they do not take us off the road we have chosen to draw. We don't have to hit bottom anymore to get through a crisis. We need to have a plan, be determined and not be drawn away from wishing out false promises that tell us that everything will get better, that everything will be easier and that we will end up being worse. That is why I urge you, too, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President, and the consistency of time. The next speaker is Mr Philippos Loading from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u408	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the implementation of a comprehensive, coherent and realistic economic plan, the Ministry of Finance tabled this bill to Parliament. So this is a bill with a purely developmental dimension, a bill with opportunities and opportunities for those who have been tested and who continue to be tested in the wake of this whole unprecedented crisis. Amongst other things, therefore, they are exempted from the trade charge for farmers who are counting for five years of VAT, as well as coastal fishermen of small professional vessels. The measures, therefore, which this bill brings are expected to work numerously for the Greek economy and society, creating a new economic environment that is geared to the qualitative upgrading of the entire daily life of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me at this point to stand on another point which has taken unjustified proportions, with arbitrary, I would say, of positions from both our fellow Members and the media. And of course I am referring to Article 90 of this bill, which enables legal persons governed by public law of the Church of Greece to regulate the repayment of their debts and claims with their debtors and which has been formed in collaboration with the Church of Greece. Because there have been various inaccuracies, you will allow me to say a few words first, as a citizen of Tinos and secondly, as a member of the Cyclades. This whole legislation is an application of the rule of law and it comes as regulation for the first time. Objections were raised by various colleagues in the committee, with various personal references, which are in no way in line with the content of Article 90, and I am even trying to understand why all this succession for the "Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of Evangelistism Tinos". However, this article, ladies and gentlemen, concerns all legal entities governed by public law and not any individual. So we must be careful when talking about Church - State matters. The PIET is both of a dual character and a two-tier mission, which constitute the entire peculiarity in relation to other legal entities governed by public law and other religious institutions, since, on the one hand, it expresses the feeling of all Orthodox Greeks, having as its basis the Holy Temple of Evangelistria, on the other hand, it has developed into a multi-formal organization of "Evangeus National Foundation", as the S.A.'s decisions state. in 2017 and 2009, as well as the decision of the S.E. number 1753 of 2019. So when we talk about various roles which are distinct, we are talking about legal persons governed by public law, which my dear colleague, Mr Armalene, mentioned. The Apostolic Ministry, however, on the other hand, is a legal person of church law and has a president of its own archbishop and council appointed by the Church. So Metropolitan Syros as PIET President is not in any way related to the other place. As a member of the Cyclades, I am well aware of the work that PIET has been doing for years. On a number of occasions, therefore, the Management Committee has sent letters seeking a solution to the repayment of the debt, in order not to suspend its multi-dimensional social and charitable action at local but also on a pan-Hellenic level, which has also been embodied in the Holy Synod and the recognition of this need is this article 90 of this bill, which only solves problems. I would therefore also like to present the communication from the Sacred Summit on Article 90. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] After all, in support of what I am saying, and the dear colleague and MP of the New Democracy in Chania Prefecture Voloudakis asked that "any provision that is beneficial to the Church of Greece should also be provided for the Church of Crete". Because this is where PIET's beneficial offer to the local society should be publicly recorded. All support to the RIET is therefore made in the interests of all sustainability, but also of society as a whole, since the same has never been a burden on the state budget, on the contrary has contributed much to society as a whole. Any demonisation of situations and persons is a method of political deception of the past, which has nothing to do with the whole debate, which is to facilitate because of the particular economic circumstances, all of these institutions, which each of their own and its framework of operation, provides work for local communities. Under no circumstances should the church become a political tool. The Greek state and the Church of Greece must cooperate for the benefit of the Greek people and the Greek society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. Finally, it would be a omission not to refer to Amendment No 440/65, where Article 8 in particular proves, in practice, the support of the Government and of the CBS, in order to integrate them into the programme of grants to enterprises with reduced turnover. In addition, Article 9 of that amendment achieves more efficient but also more correct application of the transport equivalent to the fuel side by direct payment of costs directly to the inhabitants and to the businesses of the islands. Thus, pilot projects are implemented in both Amorgos and Anafis and Antiparos, Io and Milos and Sifnos and Serifos, and Sikino and Folegandros.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u409	Good. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u410	Ladies and gentlemen, by recapitulating and closing, this draft law contains provisions aimed at attracting investment, creating a more favourable tax environment, rationalising taxation, and also a tax settlement out-of-date. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u411	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard just before the Step forward the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative complain about the unconstitutionality of the 2012 laws, because they have cut pensioners' benefits, when Article 14(2) of Law No.4387/2016 - that is, the insurance reform of Mr. Katrugalou - basically adopted the framework of the'summary of insurance contributions' law in 2012, and the cuts in these provisions have been judged to be retroactively legitimate. If you read the decision, try to inform Mr. Tsipras of the decision 1439/2020 of the Council of State. It was therefore considered by the decision that the reductions in the 2012 Act since the publication of the Act of 2016, i.e. as of 12 May 2016, are legal, because from that date onwards they have legal basis not in the Brutsi Act, but in the Katrugalo Law. So what did you do? You have conquered Brutsis for the unconstitutional cuts, when you ratified these cuts by the Katrugalus law and prevented pensioners from claiming even a euro. What kind of hypocrisy is that? So today, with this hypocrisy, which is many megatons, ladies and gentlemen, you come to say that you have been interested in pensioners because they have not been fully satisfied with the decision of the Council of State, when you under your law banned them from claiming even a euro from the cuts in previous years. Of course, if you had also bothered to read the amendment introduced by the government today, you would see that there are two parts in this amendment. One concerns all pensioners, whether or not they have appealed. They are therefore satisfied without any other condition directly, taking all the amounts within 2020. However, for those who have appealed, their rights are not affected, because for them, paragraph 4 of the amendment provides that the regulation in paragraph 3 does not take over the proceedings pending before the court. Therefore, this is neither a constitutional diversion nor an anti-constitutional coup, as you said here verbalistic. Because the judgments of the courts for those who have appealed and are fully implemented. As Mr President, time is running, let me refer to two - three issues which have been the subject of discussion throughout today. As far as dialogue with Turkey is concerned, in order not to cause confusion - and there is no intention of confusion - what we have said - and I think that the position of all Greek governments since the 1970s has been constant - is that our only difference with the neighbouring country is the demarcation of the continent and to the extent that it affects the status of overland water. This issue is resolved, ladies and gentlemen, either by agreement or by appealing to the Court of Justice in The Hague. Consequently, the only possibility and possibility of dialogue, and of course not under threats and challenges, is the debate on the demarcation of the continent or on the debate - if decided - on the development of a syndicated appeal to the Court of Justice in The Hague. That's it to put things in place. And I repeat that it is a constant view of all Greek governments from the 1970s to the present. I do not think anyone has expressed a different opinion. Two are the provisions of the amendments with particular symbolism. One is the right to appoint to positions in the public and wider public sector for those who suffered severe burns and were hospitalized in ICU or MAF during the fires in the summer of 2018 in Attica and Chios in 2016. And the second is the provision of lifelong honorary pension to soldiers who participated in the events taking place in Cyprus in 1964, 1967 and 1974. Both provisions are primarily of a moral and symbolic nature, as they demonstrate the recognition of the Greek state's obligation to provide assistance to the people that the Greek state at a difficult time has not been able to help them - and this concerns the first case - and the recognition of the honorary offer to the country concerned in the second case. Also, an important provision which has not been mentioned - and it is an amendment introduced - is the new Article 1519 of the Civil Code, where it is imposed on serious and non-recurring decisions relating to the custody of the child, to co-decision between the two parents, even if they are in a dissatisfaction. This regulation essentially recognises the equal contribution of both parents to taking custody decisions concerning their child. It is a arrangement that is aimed at parental maturity and starts from the assumption that both parents take care to fully satisfy the interests of their child and its emotional development. I will only say a few words about the first residence, Mr President, because I do not want to exceed the time. Ladies and gentlemen, we must dismantle some myths in this Chamber. The first residence in addition to the period of 2014 has never been fully and fully protected. Even with Law 3869/2010 its protection was strictly restricted. The minister told him a limit. It was a court of conditional protection, with the exception of the adoption of a final decision, which was in fact not accepted, and the borrower was at the moment. The other very important exception, however, was the exclusion of marketing. A large part of our fellow citizens, who were unfortunately in need of being merchants, were unable to protect their first residence. There's a need. I do not want to mention what SYRIZA has done either in electronic auctions or in the transfer, in the transfer of loans, information and not, to foreign funds. All this would take time to say it. But there is a need, Minister, from the GEOFERA project to go to the final solution to the problem. It must be a second chance fair, a second chance for all, natural persons who either exercise or do not engage in marketing, so that they can actually resocialise and have a clear position so that they can plan their lives and their professional activity. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law unfinished, there are tax reliefs, tax incentives and another grid of protection provisions for Greek citizens. I invite you all to vote in favour. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u413	Here comes Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis from SYRIZA. And soon, until my colleague comes to Vima, I will announce the next four speakers along with Mr Mamulakis, the next five. Mr Tsavdaridis, Mrs Gara, Mr Kavvada and Mr Voloudakis will be followed. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u414	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that today we are experiencing once again, but in a very strong form and the epitome of bad legacy emerges. I have in front of me the text, which is accompanied by our parliamentary procedure, which sets out all the amendments which have been tabled, most of them overdue, and which, of course, makes it difficult for the Minister himself, Mr Staikoras, to come up with difficulty in most of these cases. Number of Ministers, almost another bill on the present. Here, too, I wanted to raise this point, and I would like to make a general remark, which actually proves and proves my words. On 7 July the bill comes into public consultation, 14 July the procedure is closed. First, sixty-two articles. Finally, on July 18 as magically ninety - five appear. In fact, a few days ago, the storm of these amendments began, to get to today in this humoured bill with too many heirous and incoherent, heavy amendments. Allow me to begin by mentioning the issue of first residence, which - I think - has been properly exposed by all, but I think it is a vision which demonstrates the steps taken, the roadmap, the timetable for the last ten years in our country. In the post 2014-15, the government of SYRIZA had a very volatile, completely unclear landscape around the first residence. L.4346/2015, Law 4605/2019 is specific legislation which had a single main objective: to protect and shield the first and only residence. Attention, I stress: we are not talking about all the remaining loans. We are talking about the first and only residence and the vulnerable social groups. I think what will be described today indelibly in the history of the country and as regards the first and only residence is that, after ten years of efforts by all governments, but above all by the SYRIZA government, we now have an assignment and the lifting of the protection of this first residence. So there is a name: Mitsotakis. He is now presenting this phenomenon. At this point I raise this issue. Plan 'HERAKLIS'. We were here in the autumn when we discussed in detail a point which I would like to believe had good intentions from the government. We are, however, judged by the result. Two thousand of the ninety thousand first and sole residence cases were included in this plan. What does that mean? One in forty-five cases, 2.5%. The epitome of failure. I think that's a good thing to talk about. And because the government's attempt around GEOYRA has been mentioned, as an engineer, let me say that this bridge that is being shaped by the government and the responsible financial staff probably has a poor foundation and certainly has not been poured on the other bank. Bridge was our program, what we proved four and a half years and we protected our fellow citizens, the Greek taxpayers from the first and only residence and of course the vulnerable groups. Now I want to say a little bit about the famous Recovery Plan, essentially Recovery Fund, which has already been mentioned today, 'Next Generation EU', by the European Union, which has actually passed through many waves. We welcome the effort and the spirit that the European Union itself may have overcome itself, and what did it actually do? Reciprocate an obligation. This on its own is a step forward. But let's see the jumps backwards for Greece. Initially in May, in the first proposal that the Commission itself has formulated, we have for our country - and here I also have the figures from the Bruegel Institute, which I think are perfectly conspicuous and which is recognized internationally - of EUR 23.21 billion. First, Recovery Fund. As we well know, there are three pillars. They are non-refundable subsidies, they are of course lending and the third is to do beyond the Recovery Fund. What Mr Mitsotakis said, the 72 billion, is a plastic image. Let us speak with realistic and crystallined things. We all know that. Of the 72 billion, the majority of this money is ESDP and CFP, that is, agricultural subsidies, not only of the current but also of six years in depth, which the previous governments have received and the next ones will receive. So we are basically talking about 16.69 billion. Because 23.21 billion was the non-authorised subsidy initially agreed by the Commission in May 2019, but unfortunately they got tired of 27% to reach 16.69. And here's the victory of the northern countries. And it is, if you would like, and it is timely to quote Alexis Tsipras himself by saying what negotiating table we are sitting on, because we see that in other countries, such as France or Germany, they increased from the proposal to the decision stage, that is, in these two months, between May and July. Some countries were under pressure. From the result - because mathematics are stubborn - the numbers are careless and clearly show that the dimension went in this form. We have therefore advocated a reduction of around EUR 6.7 billion, i.e. 4% of Greek GDP. So, here, we really have a shape. However, we do not say that it is not a respectable amount. But putting things on the right basis. The recession is now deepening and deepening for many reasons. Clearly the health reasons are ahead but, of course, the deficit is also a courageous one, if you like, of the same financial staff, so that in advance it can go ahead with measures. Because we have said many times that this is a matter, such as the fire that is spreading, and you owe it at first, first of all, to give away all your weapons, so that's what happened now. The recession, therefore, on the basis of the OECD estimates, which is the average estimate of 8.5% -9%, or most of all the International Monetary Fund which flirts with 12%, anyway, we are talking about a recession of 12% of GDP. If we take account of the losses that we have already accepted, I think the debt ratio - GDP again flirts to unthinkable levels - may be close - I wish it could be avoided - 200%. Now, for matters relating to the Recovery Fund, the Recovery Fund, I think I tried a little bit bit more realistic and more tangible. I think we've lived a theater of irrationality this morning. It is not shameful to say that there is no room for budget, but there is a will and will in fact for a debt, a historic lack of accountability for pensioners to be given this opportunity, given the judicial decision. So what do we mean? Here we have a sum of 1.4 billion reported by the Prime Minister at noon, which will be allocated to the main pensions for all two and a half million pensioners, while the total together with subsidiary and gifts amounts to 3.9 billion. We can't even be with the policeman and the ranger. We must listen to the pensioners. It's a fair request. I think the financial margin which the SYRIZA Government itself left to the government of Mr Mitsotakis exists to give these people money. And if it is not possible within this year, which is very reasonable, there is a roadmap for repayment of this obligation of the state to these people of labor and biopale. Unfortunately, time does not give me the opportunity at this time to go any further. So I think that all of us - and in relation to the bill - need to look at the aspects and expose them all, positive and negative. Our task is to support and criticise the right and - if you like - a positive attitude to the wrong texts of your legislation. Especially today, I think that if the legislations were to be paralysed today, it would be the particular signatory. I do not think that this excellent state is in a position to act in a timely, studied and targeted manner to solve the problems facing society, how much more so, to bring growth that is not only specific, but also for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u415	The next speaker is Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the New Democracy Government does not simply introduce a tax bill into the House - a shield for the Greek family, farmers, the employees and businesses affected by the health crisis. Today, the Government of New Democracy is once again emphatic about the illusion of the left account of post-population, the so-called monopoly of left-wing sensitivity for man, for social political and social justice, but also for social solidarity. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has demonstrated in the more than one year that social policy is not - and cannot be - a sterile state-owned policy to distribute benefits from the development of healthy entrepreneurship, to multiply investment, to promote new, modern policies to maximize employment and innovative spirit of Greeks. The current government thanks to its planning, determination and labour force has managed and defeated three crises in just a few months, two for our national issues and one for the pandemic. The current government with methodic moves has gained huge benefits for the economy after, and the historic European agreement on the Recovery Fund and the package that exceeds EUR 70 billion. It is the government now coming to write another important reform page in its policies, giving tangible solutions to important areas of the economic life of people affected by the health crisis, reforms expected by society, reforms that are required by times, with interventions involving tax burdens by citizens, adding tax incentives, strengthening the development process and strengthening the feeling of confidence resulting from the government commitment that in particular, at the difficult time, no overstaffed and unprotected will be left behind. An important regulation is the new "GEYRA" programme that deeply relieves borrowers who have been affected by the health crisis, subsidising for nine months business and housing loans with mortgage on first residence. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The fundamental provision and the partial or total exemption this year from the obligation to pay an advance income tax for next year. Particular emphasis should be placed on the provision of a solution to outstanding tax disputes with several instalments and a haircut of surcharges through the extrajudicial compromise, which, apart from the obvious economic advantages, will make a decisive contribution to the decongestion of the courts. And of course, of key importance, the amendment on pensioners' retroactives, according to which cuts in main pensions will be repaid for the period June 2015-May 2016. These are only some of the aspects of this draft law, which demonstrate how high the Government of New Democracy raises the backbone of social responsibility and the absolute consistency of programme speeches and post-projects. In this direction, and always taking into account that the enemy of good is the best, I would like to point out, Minister, the need to study more extensively Article 9 on motor vehicle taxation regulations in order to promote modern non-polluting automobile technology. The undeniable need to follow the road to environmentally friendly cars by mobilising their market by reducing the registration fee for new hybrid cars, I think, at the same time, should not restrict the possibility of buying used cars, which, although older, low-tech pollutants in proportion to their emissions do not justify their burden on the new - imported high classification fee. As the candidate average Greek car buyer, Minister, due to the long-term crisis it leans into the market of second-hand cars, it is important to ensure that the tax paid for older anti-pollution cars is not deterrent. Thus, not only will the gradual and smooth transition to the new era be foreseen, but at the same time will ensure that the sales industry of used cars will not be irreparably affected, especially in this difficult economic era. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has not come to redistribute either poverty or misery in that country. Because it's not SYRIZA. She's not clinging to the past. He doesn't close his eyes in the future. The Government of New Democracy was voted to create the preconditions for economic prosperity, social blooming, nationalization. The main focus of this effort, a simple, fair, stable, long-term and attractive, but above all, an effective tax system that attracts, rewards and expands investment, at the same time as fostering tax awareness as a prerequisite for the development of new prospects and opportunities for the country and its citizens. That's what we committed to. And that is what we are doing with great determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u417	Mrs. Anastasia Gara has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u418	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to congratulate the New Democracy Government on the unacceptable legality with the ministers to bring in huge amendments which could be their own bills, to bring amendments at the last minute, fearing criticism and dialogue. I should also like to congratulate the ministers who have avoided dialogue and questions and are leaving the House room and hiding. I would also like to congratulate the New Democracy Government, in particular, on its communication talent. With a special masturbation you manage to present a completely different picture from reality. You have incorporated the lie into every sentence of yours. And this - I admit - needs special talent, such as, for example, the 70 billion that Mr Mitsotakis has brought into his suitcases with drum impacts from Brussels, which is ultimately 32 billion. Of these, 12.5 billion are loans and 19.5 billion are grants, some of which have to be repaid, of course, money that will be available since 2021 and require absorption clauses. What the Prime Minister did not notice, however, is whether in his suitcase he loaded another memorandum, which, as we know, instantly - because you have talent - you will call 'necessary development reforms'. Mr Mitsotakis has already told us today that the assessment will be strict. For now, in your suitcases, we have found 70 billion lies of the New Democracy. The greatest congratulations, however, deserve you for your talent to completely distort the meaning of words. We are living in the time of the New Democracy Government that words have completely lost their meaning. A characteristic example of the titles you put in your bills. Legislation by the Ministry of Education a few days ago, entitled 'Enhancement of schools'. It brings cameras and students to classes, an increase in examinations, an increase in costs for families. Another bill entitled 'Modernisation of private education'. He's bringing out teachers' redundancies, working galley conditions, authoritarianism. Today we are discussing a bill with the imaginable title: 'Strengthening the development process', without there being any process, without development. Unemployment increased by 20% over a year. According to ELSTAT, one million and twenty - six thousand seventy - three unemployed were recorded in June. By 13.5% exports decreased in the last five months. The "hole" in the insurance funds is 3.7 billion. "Group" 6.5 billion in budget revenues for the first half of the year, with the Governor of the Bank of Greece talking about the need for fiscal adjustment. The term is known. So there's a pension cut. 70% of enterprises say they have a liquidity problem. Thousands of businesses have not been opened and the government has not supported them. Tourism and investment collapse. Even the government's failed management at customs and country's borders in tourism creates a blow to the economy, to consumption, to investment, to the market. What growth? Unless we agree to change the meaning of that word too. What brings, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law to strengthen development? First of all, it brings rushphetological provisions, but this is a consistent phenomenon in all your bills. You, the defenders of neoliberalism, insurmountable capitalism, are the best defenders of parasitic rule. But we said: The concepts for you have no meaning whatsoever. So what does the bill bring? Measures fragment, measures - patches that serve only your communication account, measures - aspirins that do not give any stimulus to the economy. Even the glorious positive points have no cohesion and are not part of any strategy. I repeat: you call 'enhancement of the development process' fragmentary measures that do not meet the needs of neither workers nor businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. Mostly you bring in a suspension of payments and obligations to be paid in a few months. How will they get paid? We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance pointed out early on the need for a forward economic support package, but the government did not even bother to consider it. However, its refusal to consider it, but also to take substantial measures to support the economy, presides us for a well thought-out plan of the government to impose austerity policies, anti-grass measures and to strengthen the accumulation of wealth in a few hands. Ladies and gentlemen, among other things, there is a reduction in the tax advance for one year. Is the measure effective? For small and medium-sized enterprises the suspension of obligations and the repayable advance substantially alter the liquidity problem in the future, contrary to the SYRIZA proposal for permanent measures. In other words, it converts the tax advance to a repayable, since the companies involved that will be profitable next year will pay the 100% tax advance. What else does the bill bring? Pension cut. It was with pleasure that the Prime Minister announced a few hours ago the payment of the retroactive pensions to pensioners of 1.4 billion. It should, however, pay 3.9 billion, so the retrospectives will get in by 60%. I would also like to make a special reference to the amendment on the change in the equivalent of fuel. The transfer of payment to the consumer will result in a sharp increase in fuel prices up to two euros per litre. The relief also does not concern visitors. At a difficult time for our islands you are giving another blow, undermining development policies for islands. You increase costs, making the islands less competitive. With this bill you bring the well-advertised "GEYRA". Basically, you're building a missing frame. The proposed provisions do not constitute an adjustment of debt but a subsidy for only nine months and a few debtors. In our view, the arrangements for borrowers should be in a global context, which is primarily the protection of first home, which expires on 31 July and will bring immediately fifty thousand auctions. Your refusal to bring relative regulation leads to your plan for the new bankruptcy that, reportedly, will turn the owners into tenants of their homes. In this context, the SYRIZA Members have tabled a necessary amendment to protect the first residence. In a period of crisis and economic suffocation, it is necessary and necessary to have an extended framework for the protection of the first residence to be extended by the end of 2020, and to include an increased state subsidy for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups. At the same time the automated procedure for calculating the set-up doses is specified. Your refusal until today, two days before the end of the previous arrangement, does not only reveal your ignorance of what really happens in the Greek economy, in the small and medium-sized enterprises and the Greek family, but also reveals your analgesia towards the Greek citizens and especially in the small and medium-sized ones. You know, ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - when someone loses their home, no word does cover the loss, no word does look good on the image, no matter what the media do. The lifting of the protection of the first residence has a name and that is Mr.Mitsotakis. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u419	The next speaker is Mr Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy. Mr. Vessiropoulos, do you want the floor for legislative improvements or for an amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u420	No, Mr President, I'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u421	Good. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech by pointing out that nine days ago there was a black anniversary. I am referring to the 46th anniversary of the Turkish invasion of Cyprus. As a retired Air Force officer I chose first to refer to the legislative initiative taken by the Government for the granting of a lifelong pension of EUR 200 for men who fought in Cyprus. Home, even late, makes a substantial and symbolic move that is a moral reward and practical recognition for these people who did not deserve and deserve to live forgotten. Today the Government of New Democracy fulfills the Greek state's debt and honors the heroes of Cyprus forty-six years later. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I cannot, of course, mention the great news that the Prime Minister has given on the one-off payment of EUR 1.4 billion for hundreds of thousands of pensioners by the end of the year, and not only for those who had retired, but also for all those who deserve it. This policy, I stress, is a political decision by the government to add to the beneficial arrangements of the bill that we are discussing and which give a breath to thousands of Greek citizens. Exempts farmers from the trade charge of the normal VAT arrangements and fishermen. It abolishes the advance tax payment for seasonal enterprises in particular tourism. It reduces or even zeros the advance payment of tax escalates for the firms affected and there is a fall in their turnover. The fall starts from 30% to 5% to 15% and even 100% for companies with a turnover reduction greater than 35%. These are substantial tax reductions. The abolition of the 10% rate for parental benefits and parental donations of up to EUR 150,000 is also a significant tax relief, since the money is allocated to the first home market. Mr President-in-Office, about a month ago speaking from the Step of the House, moving the pulse of the market, I asked you to extend the deadline for submitting tax declarations. Because of the pandemic, citizens needed a time limit to respond. So did the accountants and the tax advisors who had accumulated a large volume of accounting material that was impossible to process. A few days ago you extended this deadline and I would therefore like to thank you and congratulate you on listening to society and its needs. I would also like to make a special reference to the amendment brought by the Minister of Sports to support EUR 12 million of amateur sports clubs. I have personal experience of being involved with amateur unions, and I guarantee that this is a great economic breath at this critical juncture. The provision of unions in youth and sport, but also in social life, especially in the Greek province, is invaluable. This direct funding will be a great support for associations that have not received any help from the state for many years and depend exclusively on the support of actors and members. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a clear picture of the difficulties that citizens face with the effects of pandemic. He proved it from the first day. For some four months it has supported every instrument and manner, using all available resources for businesses, professionals and workers. Fifty-nine support measures totalling EUR 24 billion have been activated since the beginning of the pandemic. Some continue to question the extent and effectiveness of these measures. They're on their own. The vast majority of citizens appreciate the reaction of the Prime Minister and the government to the direct consequences of the pandemic on the economy. It is also very positive that the extension of the suspension of the payment of VAT until 31 October for tourists trading with the bankrupt 'THOMAS COOK'. I believe, however, that a lasting solution must be found. This is money corresponding to a VAT that the companies have never collected, since it has never been paid. Finally, the GEOFHY programme is crucial not only to borrowers but also to the banking system. It prevents the creation of a new generation of red loans. Most of all, however, it gives a breath to thousands of borrowers affected by the pandemic, since the state has been subsidising for nine months business and housing loans with mortgage in the first place. Loans to be served, but not to be served, when the previous government only subsidised loans that were not served until 31 January 2018. This is how the void of protecting the first residence for them is also covered. Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago we passed the Ministry of Development bill, and today we are voting on the tax bill. Both these government legislative initiatives are intended to give back to businesses and workers, to shape the conditions for relaunching the economy. The citizens are aware of the size of this effort, which is why they support the government and Mr Mitsotakis. Through uncertain factors, asymmetric threats and difficulties, but also through successful crisis management and crisis management Greece is looking forward. She works for the next day that should have more light and hope for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, too. Good evening, too. It's my destiny, with Lefkada, or I'll start or finish. We said that. He asked for the floor and will be spoken by the Deputy Minister of Finance, responsible for fiscal policy and public property, Apostolos Veyropoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's return to positive and sustainable growth is not a static process. It requires constant intervention. This is what the government has been doing since last March, when the pandemic broke out. Specific measures were taken with a short-term target of EUR 24 billion. In order to support practical businesses, professionals, workers and almost all taxpayers. At the same time, the institutional interventions aimed at making our economy competitive are continuing to make Greece a friendly country for investment and economic activity. The country's return to a dynamic growth rate in 2021, but also in the coming years, requires the optimal and productive use of the EUR 72 billion available for the next seven years, but also substantial interventions in the tax field. Interventions aimed at reducing tax burdens, as, as I have repeatedly said, tax reduction is at the heart of this government's policy. Apparently this choice of government is dismantling what's left of the officer's account. Some had anticipated that new tax measures would be imposed. Not only did this happen, but on the contrary, the government has proceeded and will continue to move on to tax relief. Some had invested in the disaster. They wanted us to go back to the time of the memorials to do the same again. They believe that the only lifesaving for themselves is populism, to repeat what they have done as opposition and as government. What has certainly annoyed Acoustic Antipoliticism is the fact that this government is giving a solution to problems that they have not been able to deal with and furthermore that the interventions of this government have a strong social character, as the "GEOFERA" programme has. It is a programme which supports the vast majority of borrowers and especially those who are entitled to support. A programme for the first time includes both service-related and non-performing loans. For the first time comes the state and subsidized for nine months business and housing loans with mortgages at first residence. It grants loans to people affected by the pandemic. Potential beneficiaries are workers and freelance professionals in sectors affected by the pandemic and unemployed receiving an exceptional allowance. They are also owners of rented real estate, natural persons employed with a significant reduction in their wages, but also those who are part of the "CONTROL". The tax bill we are debating today establishes measures with a development dimension with a strong social and environmental footprint. I am thinking of reducing the fee for classifying private car passengers and trucks through key and substantial interventions. In particular, a new system of progressive taxation of IX cars is being introduced. The charges are now linked to the old times of the vehicle, the registration fee for low pollutant hybrid cars is reduced and the historical fee and the relevant committee which has caused many delays in the clearance of used cars is abolished. This is a number of provisions which, at the same time, aim to strengthen the car market. In addition, the Government has consistently made progress in reducing the tax burden policy for the tax year 2019 in suspending the payment of the trade fee for the main industrial farmers of the normal scheme. Similarly, for the tax year 2019 the payment of the trade fee and for coastal fishing fishermen operating either individually or in the form of a co-ownership or civil society fishing vessels up to 12 metres between hakes shall be suspended. In the same direction, zeroing or reducing the tax advance for the companies affected by the pandemic moves. In particular, there will be no obligation to pay the tax advance for seasonal enterprises that made more than 50% of their annual turnover in the quarter of July, August, 2019, a measure aimed at alleviating the business of tourism in particular. At the same time, escalating reductions in the company tax advance will apply depending on the percentage of their turnover reduction. The percentage of the reduction ranges from 30% to 70% and even zeroing the tax advance for enterprises whose turnover reduction rate exceeds 35%. Another measure of tax relief, but also with a strong social focus, is included in the regulation that autonomous taxation is abolished at a rate of 10% of the financial parental benefits and donations from parents to their children in order to use them for the purchase of first homes. It is radically changing the way in which taxation is now to take place in accordance with the scales laid down in Article 29 of Law No 2961/2009, which also provides for a tax-free of EUR 150,000. Two objectives are achieved. First, the tax burden is reduced for the large majority of parents who have a family benefit to their children and second, the first-stage purchase is reinforced. Furthermore, there are beneficial provisions to support sport that as a sector has been particularly affected, such as the simulation in the taxation of coaches' incomes with that of athletes and the reduction in the VAT rate for tickets from 24% to 13%. The development measure is also the strong incentive we give to pensioners with a tax home abroad in order to transfer their tax residence to Greece and to subject them to an alternative tax on income of foreign origin, with a tax rate of 7% for a period of 15 years, while exempting them from the special solidarity levy. Developmental dimension is the rule that shares granted free of charge by companies primarily to their employees - and not exclusively to their employees, as some people claim - are taxed at a rate of 15% for the goodwill earned by the employee from selling those shares. This allows businesses to make use of a means of attracting, rewarding and maintaining skilled workers, which has so far been practically inactive because of the unfavourable tax burden on the worker. As a result, workers will also be encouraged to become more productive in favour of the company in which they work and in the long run the economy as a whole. At the same time and in the light of the new developments which call for the strengthening of internal tourism, the income tax exemption for workers of interactive domestic tourism of a total value of up to EUR 300 provided by their employers is introduced. As I said before, this regulation does not simply extend the exemptions for workers from the calculation of wage earners' income but also aims to strengthen internal tourism. I would also like to refer to an important innovation, to the establishment of the Committee on External Economic Relations, on tax disputes. Through the functioning of this committee, thousands of cases will be resolved out of court which are currently pending in the Council of State and in the ordinary administrative courts. The aim is to dismantle administrative justice, quickly resolve outstanding tax disputes and stimulate tax revenues. This committee is an effective and rapid out-of-court mechanism to resolve tax disputes pending before the Council of State and the administrative courts. The committee will be based in Athens, while an annex of the committee will be operating in Thessaloniki. The Committee will operate in three-member chambers consisting of two former judges of the administrative courts with a degree of at least one year and one member of the board of the State. This composition shall ensure full impartiality and high quality of the work of the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer to the amendment tabled by a general number of 422 and a special 57, and the provisions of which deal with issues arising out of the sad juncture but also problems that should have been dealt with for years. A few days ago we had the sad incident of the attack against employees of the Kozani DU in their workplace. Three workers were seriously injured and one of them continues to fight for his life. Other instances of violence against tax administration officials have been recorded in the performance of their duties. I believe that the condemnation of these acts of violence is given by all the wings of the House. The state's moral obligation is to stand alongside the employees of the DU Kozani and their families, and this will be done in practice. The amendment has included a provision that the Independent Authority for Public Revenue will undertake to cover all the costs of hospitalisation and rehabilitation of officials who suffer physical injury or damage to their health as a result of an attack on them during and in the course of their duties. There is also provision for the cadets who are under attack, but by the staff code they are not entitled to a sick leave before six months have elapsed since their appointment. In such cases, it is foreseen that these officials are, exceptionally, duly absent and that the Independent Public Revenue Authority will undertake to cover their monthly earnings until the necessary genuine public service of six months has been completed in order to establish the right to sick leave. The state's essential and institutional obligation is to protect the officials of the tax administration and to send a strict message to all those who exercise violence to prevent controls. This is the purpose of the provisions that tighten the framework of sanctions imposed on phenomena of physical violence against auditors of the Independent Public Income Authority and also employees of the Ministry of Finance. A special fine of EUR 10 000 to EUR 50,000 is envisaged for the perpetrator as well as the suspension of the business establishment from two to six months, and in the event of a relapse six months to three years is to be suspended. In the direction of increasing the index of tax compliance, the provision that the framework for non-conservation or preservation of accounting records is strictly applied shall be initiated. It should be noted that these provisions seek to impose proportionate penalties on those taxpayers who refuse to cooperate with the tax authority and provide absolutely no evidence during the investigation. On the other hand, since the determination of the taxable material is possible by all appropriate means, the special fine shall not be imposed. The protection of legitimate and cooperative taxpayers is thus achieved. A stricter fine shall also be introduced for cases where tax electronic mechanisms are not safeguarded, as well as records and memories thereof, or for cases where they are attempted to violate, modify or interfere with their operation. The amendment tabled includes measures with an undeniable social sign, such as: Firstly, the exemption from ENVY for the year 2020 of property in the affected areas from the fires of 23 and 24 July 2018 that cost us two people a hundred lives. At the same time, the exemption from ENPI and the rights to the total property of the deceased is extended due to the fires during this period. Secondly, the suspension of VAT payments until 31 October 2020 for enterprises that had traded with the company ‘THOMAS COOK’ which collapsed last autumn is hereby extended. This regulation is reasonable given that the tourism sector is affected to the greatest extent by the consequences of the pandemic. Thirdly, there is a lifelong provision of 200 euros on a monthly basis for Greek soldiers who participated in the events that took place in Cyprus in 1964, 1967 and especially in the Turkish invasion of 1974. It is a due honor to the state to these people, a moral reward that comes late and is established by the Government of New Democracy. A government which, as I have said many times, is fully aware of reality is in a constant dialogue with all social actors and professional classes. It was therefore necessary, in view of the particular circumstances created by the pandemic, to extend the deadline for the submission of tax declarations until 28 August 2020. The tax returns shall be extended until 28 August 2020 by the appropriate adjustment to the repayment instalments. Doses remain eight. Those who submit their tax declaration within the new deadline should pay the first two instalments from 8 to 31 August 2020 without any charge. At the same time, the 2% deduction for the one-off payment of the income tax on natural persons, to be effected by 31 August 2020, is maintained, while a correct calculation of the reduced advance payment of income tax on tax returns is ensured for 2019. Our aim, as I have stressed, is to make it easier for taxpayers to fulfil their tax obligations. Finally, Article 10 of the amendment with a general number of 440 and a special 65 adds that the total amount of donations to the ENPI for the development of the fourth generation business park is deducted from the total income of the donor. Therefore, this regulation gives an important incentive to increase donations for the implementation of a particularly important project, not only for Northern Greece but for the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, the measurements and trends of public opinion do not only reflect the political climate and experience of the parties. They also demonstrate the changes and processes that have been made in citizens' thinking and political behaviour. Greek citizens have now become deeply pragmatic. They judge strictly, seek measurable results, require a different style and morality of governance. They want an effective government, while they have been relieved of ideologies and illusions. The positive appreciation of the citizens towards the government and the Prime Minister comes from this. On this basis, the new relationship between public confidence and the government was built. As much as this dissatisfactions with a small minority, that is the reality. Since March, the government has been constantly taking steps to support those affected by the pandemic, to keep the economy alive, to maintain social cohesion. Fifty-nine support measures have been put in place and the final amount allocated for all of this is EUR 24 billion. In the next seven years, the EUR 72 billion that the country can use is a great opportunity. Not to waste them on counterproductive actions, but to form the basis of an integrated development plan that will change the country's productive model. It will strengthen innovative and extroverting operations and activities. It will create new dynamic sectors of economic development. Tomorrow's new jobs. All this requires a plan. The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has shown that he knows how to plan, coordinate, exercise structured governance. Preparation for an integrated development plan for large areas and changes has already begun. New Democracy is the paradigm that has been identified with the major national strategic choices. It will seal another strategic choice, the passage of Greece to a new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, too. Let's go back to the list. Manosos - Konstantinos Voloudakis, from the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, until very recently if the average Greek citizen were to hear that tax provisions were being discussed in the House, a tax bill, he would be afraid, because for many years the tax provisions were increasingly deducting income from the citizens. This is over. It was first of all over last year, as this mandate elected the party that governs today, that is to say, the reduction of excessive tax burdens. And more, today in the pandemic conditions, with provisions which have already been passed and others like those we are discussing today, they come to alleviate the society and the economy, the citizens of the burdens that exist and to form part of our overall effort to overcome the crisis and to bring the economy back. In this context, the opposition speech, which we have heard today in the Chamber, tends to be included in two broad categories of arguments. One category is 'we would do it, but we did not have time to do it', the other category is 'give more of what you give'. Evidently, Greek society cannot be seriously faced with either category or category. And I will say one or two specific examples below. The draft legislation we are debating today establishes a number of provisions. I will only mention, as time pushes, on some of the things that I consider to be particularly important for the citizens, first of the GEOFYRA programme, this programme of loan grants, whether housing or not, which have been mortgaged at first home. The state comes to subsidise the loans of people affected by the pandemic, whether they are workers in businesses that have been affected either by free trade or by entrepreneurs themselves. Subsidies for nine months of the loan, between EUR 300 and EUR 600 per month in an environment that we must not forget. Because there is a lot of talk of protecting the first home, we must not forget that, as the Minister said earlier, there was no protection of the first home in Greece today. The scheme expired in February 2019. Those who find that it is not enough to protect the first home were those who have nowadays ended the protection, and as we have heard the Prime Minister say today, in the Eurogroup, the previous government was committed that there would be no extension of the law of protection that existed. Nowadays, there has been some extension, and in any case, with the effort to tackle the pandemic, there is this programme as well. The second very great relief coming from this bill, which concerns a lot of people and one of the major obstacles to the Greek economy, is the reduction of the tax advance. The advance tax payment, I have said it many times, is a real hardship for the private sector, for the business of the country that produces wealth, because for years they have been called upon to pay taxes for profits that they do not know if they will have. Now, then, there is a regulation whereby those in the first half of 2020, based on their turnover figures, based on VAT returns, have a reduction of over 35%, will not pay any tax advance at all. And there is an escalation of reductions for those with smaller turnover reductions. This is very important. It is, of course, part of a wider policy that we must see and then, Minister. We have announced this not as a measure in relation to the pandemic, it is part of our programme, to reduce the advance payment of tax in general and not just for the affected companies and free traders. I would like to make a specific reference, Mr Minister, to this point. There is a special case, I told you in committee, where companies that in the third quarter of 2019 present 50% of their turnover, so those that are purely tourists are exempted from the tax advance. That's right. But you have determined that this is only about the tertiary sector. There are similar cases in the primary and secondary ones and we must this Greece that produces primarily to strengthen. There are still provisions for attracting European pensioners to change their tax residences. I think it is very important. That's how life comes in our economy. A pensioner may bring his tax residence to Greece and pay 7% tax for only fifteen years. There is a simulation of the provisions concerning the inheritances of Greeks abroad with the donations of mobile Greeks abroad. Here you can see it again, Minister. I've also seen the legislative improvement he's come to. Here it is to return money to the country. The provision as it is, I'm afraid, does not ensure that. I think we should deal with a further piece of legislation. There is wealth of Greeks abroad that can come to Greece - and I am not talking about the wealth that has illegally left in the years of the crisis or I do not know what - there is legally acquired wealth abroad and we need to find ways to come to Greece. In the positive terms of the bill, I particularly emphasise the exemption from the donation tax for the purchase of first homes, which is a concern for all Greeks for their children. The donations now made by parents to their children to buy first home are exempted from donation tax and this is very important. Last comment on the provisions relating to the economy, and I am referring to retrospectives. It is very important that it is implemented with the amendment that we are voting on today in the retroactive payment of the money that the Council of State has called on retired people. It is incomprehensible that today, when this comes, the opposition is coming to ask for it to go further, go to subsidiary, go to the gift as well, as if that was something that we had, or had, been given. It wasn't at all. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the provision on the payment of pensions to the fighters of Cyprus. I think it is very important. The Greek state has been delayed. Even now it is done, even in symbolic heights. It is necessary, however, because the state has to, our country, the nation, it owes the people who fought in Cyprus. In the times we live, with the threats we are experiencing it is absolutely essential that the state's debts be repaid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, too. We will continue with the New Democracy and Mr. George Stylion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u428	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has faced the global health crisis with plan and determination. The government quickly and decisively took appropriate measures, ensured human life and dignity and shielded the National Health System. It was at the same time what went through its hand within the framework of the financial possibilities to support society and especially the vulnerable social groups. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has activated fifty-nine targeted measures totalling twenty-four billion euros, supporting the real economy of businesses, professionals and workers. At European level, the government contributed and ended up with the rest of the countries in a European success because the Recovery Fund is a European success, it is a response from Europe to the crisis and Euroscepticism. The country was won not only because the total package of EUR 72 billion is unprecedented for European data, but because after many years Greece was not part of the problem, but part of the solution. He filed creative proposals, made a decisive contribution to the positive conclusion, was present in all developments. From now on, however, we have a very difficult road ahead of us. We have no intention, as our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis pointed out, to scatter the money with the ruthlessness of the new rich man. They will invest for the benefit of all Greeks by supporting people of hardship and production, in the direction of strengthening the country's competitiveness with bold policies in the green economy and digital modernisation. We will therefore work with responsibility and wisdom and will soon be presenting a detailed plan of productive reconstruction that we believe will transform the country. We can't have another lost chance. Greece must not once again be able to absorb 100% of the money allocated to it from European funds. We cannot have a refund, as has happened many times in the past from European programmes and European funds, back in Brussels. Many times in the past we have come to be told: 'Why give you more money from Europe and the European Union since we give them to you, you cannot absorb them and you are returning them again'. Ladies and gentlemen, for this bill and the abundance of its articles and regulations, our rapporteur has mentioned very carefully, the ministers have spoken - all the ministers of the Ministry of Finance and the three in total - and they have been detailed in the regulations contained in the bill. However, I would like to highlight three regulations from all of these positive and good regulations, which I believe are of particular importance and of particular value because they send a strong message. The first regulation concerns the suspension of the obligation to pay a trade fee for farmers, farmers, farmers, farmers, fishermen and fishermen in coastal areas, because this is a commitment that helps and contributes to the real primary and productive sector of our economy. You know, I've said this many times from this Stepma - I say it again and now - farmers and farmers are on the border of our country, they are on the islands, they are on the edge and they are the ones that give size and dimension to our country. They are the ones who, with their production, undertake not only to feed the citizens, but also to change the balance of the country, because a large number of primary products - our agricultural products - are export. They are therefore strengthening exports and supporting the extroversion of our country. Speaking in the previous years about the budget, I mentioned both in 2017 and in 2018 in two examples: In a farmer who has three hundred sheep and goats, three hundred animals and one citrus producer who has one hundred acres. Calculating what's left to them, putting down the costs and the taxes that the farmer and the farmer accepted, they ended up staying at a rate of 5,000-7,000 euros a year to feed and live their families. Today we are giving an amount of between EUR 600 and 700 to these people, a monthly salary, that is, if you calculate it, so that they can support their families. It is a very great intervention that is being made by the government and worth a lot of good work. The second is the reduction of the tax advance. Let's remember that the 100% income tax advance had been made by decision of the previous SYRIZA government. Today, then, for the first time, we have a great reduction. Up to zero is done in some cases - I am not talking about the details - of the advance payment of income tax for natural persons, free traders, for whole categories. This shows that the government understands and supports the free professionals, those who produce to make the pie with which we will feed the Greek family. They're powering the cow that's producing milk that's coming out to feed our children. The previous government's perception was that free professionals are oppositions to the government, they are opposing the state, and we need to hit them, take them as much as possible and shut them down. But if we were to shut them down, the state would not have to collect VAT, the state would not have collected money so that it could distribute them to those who really need it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in a moment I am literally closing. The program "GEOFYRA", a programme that supports and helps, broadens the criteria to support those who wanted to obtain a home, first home, a dream that all Greeks have, all small and medium-sized Greeks and unfortunately because of the crisis, reduced their incomes and unable to keep the first home. I'm not talking about the bastards. I'm not talking about conscious malicious payers. I am talking about those who, on objective criteria, have reached this point. These criteria are being widened and this is very important and very positive. The most important thing, however, is that they are consistently rewarded and also have a reduction in the money they should pay to repay their loans. It is a comprehensive policy, a holistic policy that rewards and gives courage to those who have been consistent all these years and supported Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a major crisis which, however, can be exploited and made a great opportunity, not only to change the productive model of our country, but also the image of our country in the world, as we have all achieved it together a few months ago. So the beginning is. The government will continue on the same path of responsibility, truth and measurable results. Everyone you want to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, too. I would like us to agree on something and I particularly ask the rapporteurs. Shall we take the time to five minutes with a tolerance of six?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u430	Oh, no! We're from 9:00 in the morning here!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u431	Wait a minute! And I've been here since 9:00, and the police are from 7:30, and they'll be back at 7:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u432	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u433	You're absolutely right. Good. Let's go to six minutes with a tolerance of seven. Seven minutes and I cut it. I'll turn off the microphone. Do we have a gentlemen's deal? Okay. Pireotis Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor. And now you will all see how the Rules of Procedure will apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill, I would like to comment on the amendment on the awarding of an honorary pension to the soldiers who participated in the 1964, 1967 and 1974 events in our Cyprus polypath. So far their offer had not been recognized. Clearly they did their duty. But honoring is an obligation for a state that respects its citizens. My congratulations to the government which, despite difficult economic conditions, restored an injustice that lasted for about fifty years. With regard to the bill under discussion, our Government continues consistently, with methodicity and responsibility, its reform work even under the difficult conditions created by the coronary pandemic. In the past time we supported the country's social fabric with a number of important measures. I quote the most important one. We have taken budgetary measures, and we have simplified a protection net for workers and businesses affected. We have put an end to important mechanisms by strengthening liquidity with around EUR 10 billion. We have developed actions to strengthen social cohesion with particular care for the unemployed. We have granted an allowance of EUR 800 by extending as much as possible to the beneficiaries. And what are we going to do today? We are intervening where we have identified problems or needs that require regulation and set the framework. We are giving tax incentives and exemptions here. We are promoting the out-of-court resolution of pending tax disputes. And we anticipate the suspension of the trade fee for main-professional farmers in the financial year 2019. We also zero or reduce the tax advance on the firms affected. However, most importantly, everyone is the public's contribution to repayment of loans from the affected borrowers due to the krone. Is this the new ‘GEFYRA’ programme that provides support through the public contribution to repayment of loans with collateralists at the main home to borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the krone and what is the innovation of this programme? The support not only of those who do not serve their loans, but also of those who serve them, since both categories have been affected in the state of pandemic. For the first time, the consistent borrowers are rewarded, while at the same time all the borrowers affected by the crisis are supported, namely those whom the former government had left them at God’s mercy without any protection. Ladies and gentlemen, our country had just begun to come out of a serious 10-year crisis and enter a development path. Unfortunately, the coronary pandemic overturned everything and took us back. However, we must in no way allow the creation of a new generation of red loans which are the deep wound of the Greek economy. Where does the government aim with such legislative interventions? Clearly, it aims at facilitating taxpayers to fulfil their obligations. The Greek society has now realised that we have a serious government that makes decisions, which has reflexively, has a plan for the country, for its rapid and immediate return to the tracks of development. Today we are here just because we have managed to manage the pandemic efficiently and in time, and now it is a national priority to tackle the economic and social consequences. As for the SYRIZA colleagues who are swinging our fingers over supposedly insufficient measures to deal with the crisis, I will only say that. The memory of the realities of their government is very fresh. The people remember. We shall proceed in the future, with interventions to support citizens, with humility, with determination, with a plan, with organisation, with a vision for a better tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u435	Thank you, Mr. Manolak. Mr. Socrates Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Greece is in a political and economic catastrophe. First of all, why is the poaching which the government is trying to do here today in plenary? Because 3.9 billion of the pensioners' retrospectives were made, with a statement by the Prime Minister, of 1.4 billion and, ultimately, only 900 million in the General Accounting Report. The first answer the State Secretary must give - and if he wants to give it after my speech - is whether or not he is right at the end of the day, or not, or the Prime Minister who said about 1.4 billion, possibly falsely, just before this House. Because with the amendment that you will vote on today, if you vote, you will vote to delete retroactively for Greek pensioners and from 3.9 billion will be made at best in cases of 1.4 billion or 900 million, as the report of the General Accounting Office says. And the question is: Will you vote to delete the retroactive today, Members of the New Democracy? Because this government is clear that it does not respect pensioners, it does not respect the Council of State either. The fact that our country finds itself in an economic catastrophe - not to mention the deadlocks in national policy - results from the failure of financial management, since Greece is already writing about 6 billion deficits in revenue, but also from the recession that has already started since the end of 2019, from the lack of negotiation at the Council and from the deterioration of our country in the Recovery Fund, as well as from the devaluation of society's needs. The statement by the president of GATT on the pogrom in small and medium-sized enterprises is clear. The bankruptcy of the municipalities, to which they do not give any funding for their offer to the pandemic, but also ask for dues to be paid, as well as for the fact that you are today voting for the opening of the auctions to the first place, is a clear devaluation of the needs of society and of the market. And on the other hand, with the Pissaridis finding, you are preparing for austerity, poverty, injustice, that is, a new memorandum. At the same time, you do not forget graceful arrangements, amnesty for bankers for air loans or limitation of the tax on bank managers' bonuses, shareholders' bonuses or various coaches and professional players. Above all, however, there is a lack of vision, a strategy for the country. Literally, there is a final bulb, which is also the result of most of the speeches made by Members of the New Democracy against the proposal for the registration fee. Greece is clear that it is at a time of recession and not just because of pandemic. It is, however, because you did not claim more subsidies and less loans. And when a mixture was approved, which is at the expense of the southern countries, the Minister for Finance came out to say that this agreement is rational. Finally, did Mr Mitsotakis sit with the "principal" on the north side of the countries? Why cannot an agreement be rational and Mr Stagioras say so when he is downgrading the interests of our country. Also, it would be advisable to remind the Prime Minister that there is the simple basic numerical of the primary school. 70 billion is not 32 billion, as he said today, and from the 32 billion is not 19.5 billion, which is grants, even though we hear with great concern that in the end 19.5 billion are rather 16.7 billion, and that of them there are refunds. So the net amount that's left, they're telling news reports and foreign homes, it's gonna be about 6.5 billion. Of course, there is the rule of the brake you have granted to the countries of the north, that is to say to take us into the Eurogroup process, veto a country and ask for a new memorandum on our country. Because that is where the Recovery Fund will end, to the benefit of few and chosen ones, to have a new Memorandum, namely austerity, authoritarianism and unjust policy. And finally, it seems that your Government makes the pandemic crisis opportunity to implement its own extreme neoliberal, extreme right and unjust policy. On the other hand, thankfully, we have a number of judges, such as the speeches made by the Plenipotentiaries' Council, who have shown that the paperwork you have made for bankers is contrary to the constitutional principle of equality, is an unconstitutional one. In addition, they expressed the view that the provisions adopted by the government put in place obstacles to the prosecution of bankers who violated the law of bank managers, burdened the Greek State and was a provision - a gift that the rule of law challenged and defended only the strong ones. On the other hand, however, we have to say that since September 1st, the first residence remains uncovered, and this SYRIZA cannot underestimate it. Unfortunately, according to banking agents, the auctions being prepared will be tens of thousands and will probably reach the hundreds of thousands over the next two years. This griefful situation arises because you have not taken the measures you have had to take to protect the first home, but also to strengthen the economy, purchasing power and households so as not to force businessmen, small and medium-sized enterprises, scientists and popular households to put not just a mortgage but to auction their main homes. The government fails by consenting and supporting the interests of the banks and practically puts back on the auctions and will literally bring thousands, tens of thousands, households in suffocation. It is clear from the information provided by the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat that so far few applications have been volunteered, just a thousand forty-six hundred. That is why we have tabled an amendment which gives us a real framework of protection, because the reasonable costs are increased, the balance is increased, it covers loans that have been redundant up to 19 June, it gives us an automated procedure with a public contribution to low incomes and it increases the value of the property that is protected. However, I cannot help mention the serious problems arising out of Article 9, where there, without planning, with a fragmentation and unlike a recent Electricity Act, you come to pursue a fragmentary policy that benefits only importers and major car industries in northern Europe. Even majority MPs do not agree and ask for exceptions. The Ministry of Finance, in agreement with the electricity law, violates European legislation because it accords distinct treatment between domestic and imported cars. As a result, the used cars of new technology will be expensive and the people's family cannot buy a new car that is less polluting and eventually have no coordinate withdrawal program. Minister, it is compulsory to consult the other Ministries, which, although you have an Interministerial Committee, have not been consulted, and to have a programme for stopping the traffic of polluting cars in Greece. Let us also talk at some point about a timetable for the full withdrawal of Euro1, Euro2, Euro3 and motivate us to also have a withdrawal of Euro4 and Euro5A to take unpolluted cars, with new forms of fuel and compulsory withdrawal, and also of the people and the middle family. Because you will end up in an ageing fleet and we will not have a better environment at all. From the National Energy and Climate Plan and the Air Pollution Combating Programme, it is foreseen that by 2030 a million four hundred thousand vehicles should be withdrawn, but, unfortunately, we only have forty-five thousand withdrawals a year today. So you drive cities to environmental degradation, which means a direct imprint on quality of life and we do not have a coherent policy on a large issue that has to do with both the environment and electricity. We see no priority for public transport, but also for rail and fixed track instruments. Finally, it turns out that our country is not only in a political and economic catastrophe, but you are driving Greece to an environmental catalyst. And all that has a name. The Mitsotakis Government leads Greece to a downfall and society will be in the way of this downhill that leads us! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, too. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our positions on the economic policy provisions contained in the draft law have been sufficiently developed. So, I shall mainly refer to the provisions of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance concerning public administration and local government. And you understand, ladies and gentlemen, the paradoxicality of such important matters as not being discussed either in the committee responsible or in a bill from the Ministry of the Interior, but in various bills scattered. But I am tempted - because we all have our course and our history - to refer to three points. The first point is astonishing. For the first time I have seen a government and a minister rejoice that the law that had been passed by the Council of State, and even when Mr Brutsi in the Samaras government, once all the engineers were mobilizing us, the lawyers and other specialists, were also accusing us of the SYRIZA government as ministers. And today it rejoices that this structure is falling apart! I really can't understand it. Of course, the New Democracy government is used to it. From what I'm watching, and in the works you're constantly canceling contracts and contests, the CTE comes in, outlaws the decisions of your ministers to cancel contracts and rejoice. That's a bit of a biscuit, it's not politics. The second is this. I would like to remind you of your forecasts. You started at growth rate of 4% for 2019 and 2020, if I remember correctly, Mr. Mitsotakis said that the spring of growth would be blown. You were implying much more. Then your expectations fell. In the debate on the budget you were telling us about 2.9% growth, then you talked about 2%, for 0%, the results of the first quarter came, you had already put the country in recession less than 0.9%. Then you forecast for the year 0%, after 2%, minus 2%, minus 4%, then minus 6%, and today you speak of less than 9%. I sincerely hope that my heart will stop the downfall of the recession and do not miss your prediction again. But, Minister, how can you not miss? What is the plan for the immediate replacement of GDP lost by tourism and by the sectors affected? In what areas have you planned to deal with the crisis? The projects, which are a traditional sector to deal with the economic crisis, have stopped them. He doesn't even work a sculptor in a garden, not a play. I don't see anyone here from Thessaloniki. Go for a walk to the construction site of Metro Thessaloniki. There's not even a cat in there. You can't even put mushrooms! Primary production does not support it, nor do you support the sectors that have been cracked, such as the winegrowers who have been devastated. Industrial production itself. The announcements by Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the programs for the five major semantic works entered the timeline of history, you forgot about them. Investors in the Greek since you got out of government are leaving after each other. So profitable and sustainable you have done the work and you are moving on! Your review is cancellations of project competitions, division policies, delays. You canceled the national plan and strategic transport infrastructure. Small and medium-sized enterprises don't open and gravitate. Unemployment returns to the levels that Mr Brutsis left in 2014. Congratulations! All Scoil Electoral, i.e. the country! And as far as the pandemic is concerned, we see the lockdown as a success. The opening? Who is responsible for the cases now - who handled the issue - for the recurring of tourism and for not complying with measures throughout Greece, so that we have cases everywhere in the summer? Aren't you responsible? We'll see about that. So in two areas, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you get 'perfect.' The first area is the government's communication policy, with all that that implies, and the second is the old-fashioned regular Paleo-group practices of the Right and Rusphetological Policies. In today's draft law, Minister, you have really finished it. Weren't you talking about programming and perfect operation? What planning will the Treasury do for the expenses with the exceptional recruitment you're planning? Where is the annual and long-term planning for the needs of the public? How many will you hire? The draft law of the Ministry of Finance, therefore, includes provisions of the Ministry of Interior for TAs and Public Administration - we talked about them the other day - sixty amendments to the Law of the State of 2019, forty-six to the first time amendments to the Act on the Depreciation of TAs by Law 4622/2019 on Local Government. And you have not been content with these, you have also brought in amendments. Let us mention it, because it is a monument to a modern government that respects democracy, Parliament, the Final State, and everything else! Let us look at them in summary, Mr President, so that I do not have time with the cheap tricks of the government not to discuss the provisions on OTAs in a bill from the Ministry of the Interior. Article 69 for the first time in Transmigration provides that the grant will be granted to municipalities for the time being and retained by the CFP. And we ask: apart from the fact that you wreck the municipalities of the country, have you asked them, have you consulted on this? You also have an amendment. Wasn't Article 69 enough for you? Do you make internal lending to local government? Are you doing a second parallel mechanism for the resolution of the municipalities? Does it not hold 2% - you know them - of the CFPs to restructure the municipalities? How do you now come with an amendment and introduce 25% withholding? When has this been done in the Transmigration by a New Democracy government before? Who did you consult with? Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u439	He doesn't have any more. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, as you have shown, I would ask you to show me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u441	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u442	... because, Mr President, if we were to go with the parliamentary procedure that the government had introduced, we should not have discussed this today. Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Lebanon, should be here to discuss them, the CEDEFOP, the ENP, all of them. Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u443	But that's no reason to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u444	How isn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u445	You weren't even here at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u446	It is a shame for Parliament and for democracy that cheap trick. To have fifty amendments from your own law to other bills is a disgrace! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go down. You're introducing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u447	This has nothing to do with time, Mr. Spirtzi. Please, please, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u448	I'm closing, Mr. President. To see what you are doing, we have also told the committee that the tens of new positions are exceptional to you, again exceptionally. And I ask you: were you not the ones who complained to us, were you not talking about a small state? What is the small state, Minister? The exceptional provisions every week, will you bring us here 100 to 200 people? And you put them in the draft law. With an amendment to the EBRD, 50 others? Do you understand what you're doing? You have amended and taken responsibility from the municipal councils and took it to the Economic Committee. Today you are bringing another amendment to that for the regions. Have you discussed this with any regional managers? Do you know what happened today on the Attica Regional Council? They all left, you guys stayed with the Golden Dawn. Do you understand what you're doing? And when will you give us the account of what the local government spent on the coronary like the big or small walk? I shall close, Mr President, as soon as possible. For every one of the New Democracy lists appointed by way of derogation, you will be confronted by five hundred who lose their jobs because of your policy. For every civil servant you fight with party choices, you'll lose hundreds of others. For every businessman you benefit from, you will be struggling with hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises who have not opened up and are going to close down in the next few months. For each small, larger or smaller perimeter due to a coronary with direct assignments, you will be confronted by the workers who are unemployed and the municipalities who will not be able to operate. For every house to be auctioned, you will be rival to the entire Greek people. It is not enough for you to contact the deadlocks that you bear on the Greek society. You haven't changed. Right you were and right you stay and nobody forgets about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u449	Thank you very much. Until the Step is ready, the Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy has the floor for a minute, please. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, I am not going to answer the reluctance because you were right and you are left on the right, you understand that you do not need a reply. It was just an attempt to get Mr. Spirjis applauded. But I would like to reply from now on: he said that it is a shame for Parliament that the procedure is being followed today. Today the Ministers responsible for urgent matters are carrying out amendments. They bring amendments to enable pensioners to get their pensions quickly, to be attributed backwards, to close the loose ends of the Greek state and to have tax relief for the Greek citizen. We have not brought any tax burden until now, only reliefs and facilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u451	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u452	I heard you carefully, Mr. Colleague! But I would like to say, Mr President, because there is also the collective and institutional memory in here that, on 1-8-2018, a bill from the University of Ioannina 'Ioannina and other provisions', ten amendments have been tabled by the ministers. Mr Gavroglou, for example, tabled: 'Consolidation of the topics of the Ministry of Culture and Sport'. Mr President, if you let me read, you will see that it is completely irrelevant the issues that have been brought to a bill on 1 August. They were ten amendments of late-term ministers and fifteen Members of Parliament. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Bougas, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who should be ashamed of, Mr. Spirtzi? Who should be ashamed of? Shame on you! Mr President, this Chamber cannot be such a controversy. We should talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u453	Thank you very much. It is understandable that SYRIZA was also making amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u454	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u455	Here, Mr Spirtzi, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u456	First of all, Mr Buga, I am not ashamed. And I am not ashamed of this reason. Because we have served as ministers many of us here, I have never brought 60 amendments to the Ministry of Infrastructure bill, into my own bill to pass them through ticks on other committees and other bills, nor any other Minister of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u457	You have said that in your speech, Mr Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u458	So you do not want to understand that crucial issues relating to public procurement, local government, social policy, do not go through them in the relevant committees and in ministries' bills - why? - because you're afraid of consultation with the Greek society, because you're afraid your mayors will come here and report you, your district officers will report you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u459	Thank you very much, Mr. Spirtzi. Mr Nicholas Andreas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u460	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place at a critical time not only for the Greek economy, but also for the economies of all the states, as the consequences of the pandemic crisis are affecting businesses, workers and, in particular, the vulnerable social groups. But today's debate is taking place a few days after a historic decision on Europe and Greece since, after painful discussions, the Member States of the Union have reached a very important agreement on the recovery of the European economy and national economies. In this critical negotiation, our country has come very beneficial, since in the coming years Greece will receive more than EUR 72 billion from all the European funds allocated to addressing the economic consequences of the economic crisis. And this result, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear success of the Greek Government. In this context - and to come to the current draft law - the financial staff promotes important interventions, on the one hand, to address the adverse consequences of the health crisis and, on the other hand, to continue with the government's reform policy, because this crisis could constitute a risk to derail all economies. At the same time, however, it is also an opportunity as a government to deal with this crisis and as an opportunity for the Greek economy, an opportunity to strengthen our reformism, an opportunity to promote the necessary sectors, an opportunity to strengthen the resilience of our economy to unforeseen factors and external crises. The current draft law, ladies and gentlemen, achieves these objectives. I would like to focus on two main aspects of this draft law which, in my opinion, demonstrate the importance of today's legislative initiative. The first relates to the mesh of tax interventions promoted through this bill and will have beneficial effects for Greek taxpayers. For example, through this draft law we provide incentives for pensioners who have a tax home abroad to transfer their residence to Greece. We abolish the self-taxation of 10% of the financial parental benefits from parents to their children so that the property market is rekindled. We are reducing or even zeroing the advance tax payment for 2019 depending on the fall of the turnover shown this year by companies in order to strengthen the liquidity of businesses. We are exempting farmers in particular for the tax year 2019 from the obligation to pay the trade fee. Finally, it is particularly important to set up a Committee on Foreign Affairs to resolve outstanding tax disputes before the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts. Our aim is to facilitate the rapid resolution of these disputes, to achieve the dismantling of administrative justice and, of course, to stimulate tax revenue. And I come to the second important part of this draft law concerning the "GEYRA" programme and the protection of first residence. I would also like to make a few points on this point and I would like to make a few points. First of all, we should remind the Members of the Officerial Representation that the government that abolished the protection of the first residence in February 2019 was the SYRIZA Government, which formed a framework that, as it proved in practice, did not ensure the protection of all borrowers. It should also be recalled that it was the Government of the New Democracy which extended by seven months the protection framework until 31-07-20, and today, in view of the situation of borrowers as a result of the health crisis, we are creating a new loan grant programme involving an important innovation. We broaden the beneficiaries and include, for the first time, informed borrowers. We are therefore subsidising both non-performing loans and, indeed, non-performing loans after 31/12-2018 which were not covered by the previous government, as well as subsidized loans. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, a government rewards the citizens who are consistent with credit obligations which have been affected by the pandemic in this country. And I think that this regulation also says a lot about the philosophy that the New Democracy Government is giving up, but also about the policy it is serving. At the same time we encourage borrowers to directly regulate their debts with banks and loan managers, while preventing the abuse of the new framework by strategic poor payers. Because our aim is not to create a new generation of red loans in the midst of a pandemic crisis, but to protect households and social groups that are vulnerable and need support from the state. Finally, I wanted to explain at this point why specific borrowers such as firefighters cannot join the GEOFER programme. These citizens - as you know - have received a loan in previous years with a state guarantee and therefore, because of European state aid legislation, they cannot receive state aid again. However, the government intends to support these borrowers as well. It must do so, and I am sure that these cases will be dealt with by the financial staff with the new bill which will soon come to Parliament and will deal with the private debt arrangements. This provision is necessary because the charges of these citizens, such as our firefighting fellow citizens in Elijah, have been hurt multiplely. They have been hurt multiplely because of the enormous damage and damage they have suffered at the time, the economic crisis that followed, but also today because of the consequences of the health crisis. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome the symbolic importance of adding to the bill introducing lifelong honours for soldiers who took part in the events in Cyprus in '64 in '67 and '74. I think that this is the least we can do as a Greek state for the offer of Greek soldiers. Because as a state we must show firmly that we do not forget the struggle of our soldiers for a free Cyprus. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, despite the difficulties that have arisen from the health crisis, remains committed to implementing a policy with a strong reform mark. We are not being reassured, but instead of planning and hard work, we continue to implement the reform programme for a strong Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr Nikolakopoulou and congratulations. Whoever wants to talk about it is six and seven minutes. Mr. Xenophon Baraliakos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u462	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let me begin today's speech by referring to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance accompanying this bill. The first article of the amendment introduces lifelong monthly provision for the warriors of Cyprus and specifically for those who actively participated in the military events of the Fallon Zone in the years 1964, 1967 and 1974. The government comes to implement an earlier commitment to our prolongation, which is a minimal, practical, moral and symbolic reward for those heroes who defended the freedom of Cyprus and sacrificed for national ideals. We restore historical injustice and correct a lasting omission of the state towards these people who have for many years been treated without due respect and proper prices. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of this Legislation bring about points of reference and interventions in the Code of Income Tax and in the Code of Tax Procedure, which simplify tax legislation, strengthen the development process and attract investment by providing additional incentives. A radical institution in the administrative tax procedure is introduced by establishing a committee for the out-of-court resolution of outstanding tax disputes before the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts. It is thus attempting to directly decongest administrative justice and stimulate tax revenues. After all, the rapid administration of justice in such cases is a prerequisite for attracting investment funds. We cannot afford to put in court rooms with long-term investment plans and development projects. In the same direction, the regulation of the draft law to attract pensioners from other countries by transferring their tax base to Greece is also in progress. According to recent surveys and in conjunction with the corresponding projection, the economic benefit for our country can be several billions a year and create thousands of new jobs, taking into account the fact that the homes to be made available to our country at the moment are some thousands, and it is obvious that the growth margins are very large and important sectors of the economy, such as construction, will take enormous impetus. Besides, the region, like my prefecture in Pieria, meets all the standards to absorb significant masses of these people who will choose to live in our country. Personally, I believe that this regulation is a great development opportunity for my country as well. In cooperation with local bodies, the conditions can be created for attracting pensioners, since we first highlight all the comparative advantages of our region, as Pieria combines the excellent climate and harmonious rotation of natural mountain and sea landscapes. Another important regulation introduced by this bill is the tax relief of thousands of our farmers and also of fishermen of normal status who are exempted from paying a trade fee for 2019, since they have completed the five-year period since their accession to the VAT regime. In continuing, ladies and gentlemen, the targeted interventions to support the property market, a regulation is being introduced that abolishes the payment tax from parents to their children, to children, in order to buy first residence. Thus, for the first EUR 150,000 no tax will be paid, while from EUR 150,000 to EUR 300,000 the tax will be 1% of the existing tax system of 10% from the first euro. Thus, a family is relieved of an important cost, but young people are also encouraged to start their lives with the most favourable starting point. We reduce the advance payment of tax revenue tax for the year 2019 of legal persons and entities and natural persons engaged in business, depending on the range of the percentage reduction in the VAT turnover for the first half of 2020 compared with the first half of 2019. We continue to implement consistently, wherever possible and on the basis of the financial space, reducing tax rates despite the consequences of the epidemiological crisis. From today, ladies and gentlemen, the borrowers affected by the coronary will be able to receive a subsidy for serving their loans by requesting the relevant electronic platform which opens from next week. Depending on each individual case, the loan instalment can reach up to EUR 600 per month. We apply social protection in practice and guard the residences of the Greeks responsibly and without disturbing the banking system of the country. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Head of the Ministry of Finance, which has taken a very relevant legislative initiative at all levels, solving and correcting immediate problems that have arisen and continue to arise from pandemic. We are consistently continuing to liberalise the market and reduce tax burdens always in a social context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, too, and good for you. Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis has the floor from New Democracy, Piraeus. And I want left temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I really am asking myself, and it seems very strange that you of the opposition would come here as then Christ prophets to tell us what? Tell us that you abolished by signature Tsipras and Tsakalotou the protection of first residence in February 2019? Tell us you sold out the red loans to strangers? Tell us that you agreed after 2019 the auctions of the first place? These are all known now and you should be ashamed to come here and with these designations you attack a government that is trying to find solutions. The world sees you and laughs. Shame on you! The bill now. Immediately after the outbreak of the pandemic, the government took all the necessary initiatives at both national and European level. In Europe for the first time after many years we have managed to treat Greece as an equal member now of the European Union. We are also participating for the first time in the Programme of Quantitative Relaxation of the European Central Bank, which means lowering the cost of borrowing public, banking and business. We have gained flexibility in exploiting the resources of the ESDP and with the Recovery Fund and the Multiannual Financial Framework we have gained a fire force of EUR 72 billion. At national level, we have taken unprecedented measures of EUR 24 billion to support the productive fabric, workers and businesses affected by the pandemic. We have strengthened the unemployed with programmes to stimulate employment. We have strengthened liquidity in the real economy. We are monitoring the development of the pandemic and the consequences. And we're here to do whatever it takes. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely in this sense, the needs of the pandemic are included in the regulations of today's bill. With the program "GEYRA" we protect the first residence. This concerns all affected, both service and non-performing loans. It is the first time that consistent borrowers are rewarded, and at the same time, they are also supported by those who SYRIZA had excluded them: Workers who have a significant reduction in their wages, unemployed who receive exceptional support, free professionals in sectors with a reduction in turnover, persons who received the repayable advance, workers who are part of the "CON-WORK" programme, property owners who are entitled to a reduced rent. Everyone, but everyone, will be able to join this programme. In practice, we support the entire Greek society and, at the same time, we prevent the risk of creating a new generation of red loans. Today, we're reducing the tax advance. In practice, we are strengthening the viability of businesses. We highlight their liquidity and face the consequences of pandemic. We are giving further incentives to buy environmentally friendly vehicles. In practice, we reduce the registration fee following the incentives we have already given to a previous bill from the Ministry of Energy on electricity, which I was a rapporteur. We are reducing taxes on farmers, fishers and seasonal enterprises that have reduced turnover. We are introducing tax reliefs to support sport. We are promoting a rapid out-of-court resolution of tax disputes. But we don't just live in them. We are taking firm measures to combat tax evasion. This is not only an open wound to the state. It is at the same time gross injustice for consistent taxpayers and unfair competition for the market. We motivate pensioners who have their tax residence abroad to transfer it to Greece. We abolish the self-taxation of parental benefits and money donations to buy first home to those who really need it. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, from the very beginning as a government, has launched an integrated national reform plan, a plan that brings investment, jobs, development, ultimately, better life for all Greeks. Our economic policy is based on a completely different philosophy from that prevailing in the past four years. The main concept of this policy is prosperity. This will come to the country when domestic and foreign investment is mobilised and new jobs are created. We do not, however, ignore the need to extend a protection net to the weakest. For all these reasons, we anticipate tax reductions instead of increases. Just one year after the elections of 7 July 2019, although we lived - and we live - unprecedented situations - we saw Evros, Kastelorizo, pandemic - the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is here to give solutions and to address the challenges that come. For the first time, after many years, a government has finally been found that reduces burdens on businesses and households. We put an end to the vicious circle of overtax, unlike SYRIZA. Because we do not believe in the imposition of horizontal measures, preventive measures on fair and unjust ones, just to temporarily increase public revenue. We believe in tax justice. We believe that Greek citizens should contribute to the public burdens according to their powers, as defined in the Constitution. By reducing taxes we are strengthening the productive activity and the purchasing power of the citizens. Thus, the market is developing. That's how the pie grows. Thus, more wealth is produced. Thus, despite the reduction in the tax rates, public revenues themselves also increase. Thus, public expenditure without borrowing is also covered. Although we are at a very difficult time, this policy has already worked out. From the vicious circle of recession, the tragic situations experienced by the Greek people in the summer of 2015 and the overtaxation of SYRIZA, the Greek economy has already passed in another cycle, the regeneration of expectations, sustainable development and the increase of incomes. Refugee the reality, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation. But whatever each one of you says, in the end we are all judged by the Greek people and by our actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, too. Congratulations to you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with a question to the Minister present. For as much as I read carefully Amendment 444/68, Mr Minister, on the retrospectives signed by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, I have found nowhere the point which clearly states that the sums to be reimbursed are inappropriate. So I would also ask you with the Bureau's permission: is it inappropriate or not? Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u467	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u468	Will you answer later? Can't you now tell me a 'yes' or a 'no'?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u469	Are we going to have a dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u470	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u471	I ask something in an amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u472	All right, you asked. The Minister may at some point answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u473	Will the Minister answer me if it is inappropriate or not? I understand the Minister's answer because there is nothing in the amendment as a trap for pensioners. I do not want to use expressions which have been heard by the previous speaker, although they should be. Because what are you doing to retired people? You blackmail them because you say in this article that by paying the amounts corresponding to cuts, reductions, abolitions, etc. the obligation is amortised. So you're telling them that to get this money back, what we're going to get you back and go to ADAF funds, if you owe income tax, HISBIA, traffic charges - 8.4 billion are those and they will be confirmed in the next few months - you will be kept by the ADAF if it's over 1,250 euros. Is that-- or isn't that a trap? And I ask the State Secretary in charge and he doesn't answer. Because else is politics...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u474	Are you suggesting that it's inappropriate?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u475	Thank you very much for your question, because with what the representative of the New Democracy says it is not inappropriate. The news of the day is no matter how much tomorrow they try the paid parrots and the expensive Montblancs who support you every day to say the white one, what you return to pensioners will in fact be a reinforcement of the tax revenues that they are falling apart.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u476	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u477	We say, of course, and it must be inappropriate. Pensioners have been subject to a terrible attack since 2010. Six hundred twenty thousand pensioners saw from the Tsipra government in January 2019 for the first time increases. You and PASOK kept bringing down. And now you're telling us...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u478	With the Katrugalu law, what happened to them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u479	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u480	You should tell the retired people, because I now understand what you are going to set up. I expected today - and since 9.00 I have been here - all the relevant ministers to say something about the next economic policy. According to the latest figures, in the first half of the year you have a deficit of EUR 6.1 billion. The second half of the year is the semester of receipts. If, then, with a simple logic, we make a proportionate comparison every year, at least every other year, you will have the second semester. So you're planning an economic policy with a deficit of more than 12 billion? If you prepare memorials of coronary or anything else, what too many in the so-called Pissaridis Commission and the various advisors who considered them to be a blessing, and thought that if they were not there, we should discover them, say so now, that Parliament should not close down, to discuss these. But answer that, based on what deficit model at the end of the year you are planning to take these measures. But is the classic question to which the poet in the past answered: Are there any money? There is money, yes, because there is the classic question 'where to find the money'. Money trees will come out? Money is available for favorable regulation for Golden Boys with share issues as bonuses, etc. - that was analysed by others, I have no time - money is available for favourable tax treatment for the great players in sport. I do not believe that you are any factor in sport that has a media and so on. And he asked for that. You did half the job in December, you completed it now. Money is also available on the issue of expensive cars that will reduce the registration fee to expensive cars, not to small and medium-sized cars, such as the logic of our Constitution, but to expensive cars. For some, then, there's money. Tell me something. For the 71,000 retired people with the undeclared retrospectives that you will run them in the courts and seize them, etc. Wasn't there money to do anything like what you did with athletes with self-taxation or something else and end the story? Money is there for government officials - I am not talking about the Prime Minister, why should we not tempt him - who decided summer to tour islands and check their authority with public money? The question of the procedure of this draft law was first heard. This bill is really a disgrace to Parliament because it started with 62 articles in consultation, it was tabled Friday at one hour in the morning with 95 articles and 280 pages and today with the amendments we are debating 140 articles and 460 pages. We're not actually talking about it. We are voting on something with the logic of a "bug". In order to understand the curiosity with which you are legislating, there was a bill in plenary last week on the issue of car taxation and a bill in the Committee on Economic Affairs on car taxation again. But can't you consult each other in the ministries and end this story? No, you cannot agree, because I will mention what the Prime Minister said - I will also submit the relevant documents - in 2018. You'll tell me "Swine Grapes" last year, but we're keeping records. I did not look for statements by Mr Besiropoulos and Mr Stakoura on 29 unfair taxes, etc. We've been through this sometimes. They never respond here. Statement by Prime Minister Mitsotakis, March 2018: ‘Standard tax system for at least five years’. I'll testify for the Minutes. At the same time, I will put forward a nice billboard by the SYRIZA Economic Policy Department on what you have done in the field of customs tax policy in just one year. You are talking here about a fixed tax system for five years. In a year, do you know how many bills you've brought tax provisions? In 23 bills you have brought tax provisions along with what we are discussing today and you have changed 165 articles. I do not think this helps very much, nor does it very much help the stability of the tax system. Just one word, Mr President, on the subject of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I've asked it another time. Mr Gerapitris is missing from this place where I was impressed last year with what he said about good legislation and dialogue and so on. I put the question before you: Do the ministers read what the Scientific Service of the Parliament says? Because this service for too many articles in the bill has serious objections. I'll just stand on Article 16. KINAL said Isle of Interplanetary Island. I won't call it an island. I will say that Article 16, with the setting up of the Committee on External Dispute Resolution, will be what another committee will be working in the future in the House on corruption and interlocutory issues and you will not have the excuse then to say "I didn't know", because the Scientific Service of the Parliament is saying in terms of the need for tax relief from all kinds of political interventions and to shield the institutional independence of the Greek tax administration. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, be serious, coordinate each other and bring us bills that solve problems and not multiply them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u481	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis. Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to dwell on the monument of misrepresentation that we see once again by the Government of New Democracy. I would, however, like to focus on political deception. Political deception number one: retrospectively retired. You say that you have made a political decision to give it to them. How much? It's 3.9 billion and you say 1.4 and the State General Accounting Office says 900. You are making a reduction in pensioners' retrospectives of 60%. If that's not political deception, what is it? Political deception number two: The Prime Minister, speaking of support for business, said: 'We strengthened 525 000 VAT', of course, and he wants to say that these are businesses. But what is the reality? That the companies are in the return payment one and two. Here if you sum up it is 140,000 of the 750,000 businesses. So why have the other companies not been financed? Because he failed the measure of the repayment of the advance. Political deception number three: Protection of first residence. It's over. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are voting on today is over. The program "GEYRA" is only for nine months, it is for a few months and in substance you are abandoning the protection of the first residence. We are even asking you to adopt the amendment we are tabling on the effective protection of first homes. I won't talk about the bill anymore. I will talk about the amendments, why do you really not bring them into discussion with the normal parliamentary procedure? You obviously don't want society to know what you're voting for, but he'll find out. Amendment No 440 to Article 9. What do we got? The abolition of the equivalent to the fuel part in the stations. When? Amid the tourist season. We had asked for an assessment of the measure and for it to be maintained until 31-12-20. You didn't accept it. You have no preparation for the transition to the new regulation, which is provided for and, as we say, I have no confidence in the adoption of joint ministerial decisions by your Government. We are still waiting for business and for Crete, dear Harry Mamoulakis. From the first moment you slandered the measure. You have undermined it from the first moment. You've delayed the payment of tickets for the passengers. You have not yet adopted for 2020 the joint ministerial decision, and since April the platform had to be opened. And in the fuels you were talking about distortions. You made the issue of the CSR for the pilot run ending on 31 July at the beginning of July. You did say that and accomplish that! The transport equivalent to fuel worked because there was price control from the Fuel Observatory and fuels decreased in the pump. From the information available to the Ministry, the measure could be exempted from the de minimis rule. It has data from May 2019 until June 2019. We said at the outset that an assessment and a measure had to be made of the de minimis rule, because it could be regarded as a transitional payment for consumer aid and could serve as a neutral payment for the service such as VAT, i.e. a payment for a transitional period and therefore not part of the logic of State aid. The European Union has not even taken advantage of the possibility of quadrupling the level of State aid. What will be the problems of abolishing the measure? Firstly, on 1 August we will see an increase in the price of fuel in the pump up to 25 minutes on the islands of pilot application. Secondly, there is no joint ministerial decision on the new way. What does that mean? That you are basically absolutely unprepared to implement this measure, even in this distortive way that you have chosen. It's not about visitors on the islands. And when? At a time when we are asking to strengthen tourism in the islands. You choose to bring a measure that hits the islands and especially the small islands in particular. The experience we have gained so far from the implementation of the New Democracy Government makes us sure that you will not be able to implement the measure and effectively abolish the aid for fuel on the islands. I will go to another amendment of 443, to Articles 14, 15 and 16. Was he really supposed to come today? Since it is such a good amendment, as the Minister told us, why does it come without consultation? Why is there no consultation with the maritime unions, in which the way in which the archaeology takes place in the naval unions has been altered? Can the government do that? A three-mile limit is set in a primary and secondary union. Where else is that? Explain to me, in what sense can one not have the right, because he took three terms at primary level, to be elected president to a secondary body? There is also a seventy-two-year limit. Why is this limit set? Honestly, when we asked you all to put a limit on parliamentary terms together, why didn't you? You know how to put limits on everyone but yourself. This is your democratic sensitivity. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr President, I would like to end by commenting on two points, because I think that these issues have not been mentioned in Article 15. It says, therefore, that if there is no present-day master, then the organic composition arrangements are abolished. What does that mean? The ship owner must have five Greek officers on board. If there's no master, what's going to happen? If there is no master we - and it makes sense - must respect the term of the five Greek officers in other specialties, such as engineers, such as the lieutenant. Why is organic composition abolished without conditions in this case? In Article 16, to say things by their name, it is a abolition of collective agreements. I will agree, the way in which the collective agreements have worked because of their non-harmonisation with international conventions, has acted inhibiting the employment of lower crews. In fact, in the pioneer shipping, we don't have lower crews. However, such provisions should result from negotiation with maritime unions rather than coming and imposing the abolition of collective agreements and imposing some other contracts. The Minister said we had seventy thousand seafarers, and now we have eighteen thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u483	And finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u484	I'm closing, Mr. President. But is the Minister serious now? So, can't mariners - if they wanted to - go to ships flying a foreign flag with the wages of ITF? Is it the ITF wage that will give the incentive to more people get into the profession? The Minister forgets that in the 1970s we had no tourism, and therefore most islanders went to the boats. Now we have tourism. These are the differences that have led to this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you are relaxing the parliamentary procedure, bringing regulations that deregulation work, shipping and island policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u485	Mr. President, what are you doing up there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u486	Mr. Anastasiades, how did you say that? What am I doing up here? I told him twice. What am I supposed to do? Is that a way you're talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u487	Once again disprove the expectations of society and show a hard and liberal face. You're being disturbed by what we're saying, but you'll hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u488	What am I doing up here? If I turn it off, because I'm from the Greek Solution, he'll call me fascist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u489	Turn it off. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u490	Don't raise my little girl now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u491	But he's been talking ten minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u492	Same thing happens all the time. No one respects me.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u493	No one respects anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u494	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u495	Mr Santorinier, you have said so before. Mr. Santorinier, you're very naughty. For the others, there are also amendments, but at seven minutes they stop, which means that they respect the colleague and the officials who are here. I'll stay until morning. I don't have a problem with anyone. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What someone wants to say can say in seven minutes. Nine o'clock are we stuck? Mr George Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Kosani.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u496	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in all respects of action over the last few days it has been shown in practice that when a government is working in a method, preventive, targeting and targeting which is looking at the outcome, then this result deserves it and I am referring, of course, to EUR 72 billion. And in order not to hurry to say anything, I will say that they will be at the disposal of society and the economy for the next seven years and, of course, that they are an important success for our country and for the Prime Minister himself. It was mentioned this morning and in the letter which had been made with other Heads of State. The participation of grants is of course relatively upward. This is very important, and of course it is also important that the Prime Minister said that what we have to do from now on is work with project and responsibility. I would add that every expenditure should be an investment that obeys a productive reconstruction plan, with the aim of achieving high, smart and fair growth, resulting in the transition of society to a cohesion situation and the transition of the economy to a situation with many and well-paid jobs. Attention, however, should not be seen as fans of absorption, but of efficiency, and this can be done with the contribution of the necessary administrative and institutional framework and, therefore, the main objective should be to increase the availability of income, especially in critical economic circumstances. The draft law therefore serves in an absolute manner. The draft law is part of a broader reform plan for the financial staff, i.e. the government. It shows that the Treasury continues with responsibility, with methodicity the government's reform work even in difficult circumstances. I would remind you that two important bills have been preceded, which have indeed achieved a wonderful convergence of views. One is Law 4701 on the granting of microfinances. We'll see in the next period how beneficial he will be. The second is Law 4706 for the corporate governance of public limited companies, where, among them, the interests of which they represent are the small shareholders of these companies. I would also like to remind you that the ERAKLIS programme is in a phase of mobility. The banks are already preparing to make use of it, and this will in practice mean saving at least EUR 30 billion of red loans by contributing to the restructuring of the banking system. The utility of individual settings is obvious. The draft law under discussion contains arrangements with a development dimension and reflects the core of this government's policy to reduce taxes and thus to increase income. The answer to all those who said in the past days that it is customer-friendly with covered cameras and rushphetological devices is as follows. Is it a customer's and a rosphetological measure to abolish the self-taxation of parental benefits and donations from parents to children? Is it a customer-friendly and routine measure to exempt the tax year 2019 from the trade charge for farmers and fishermen of coastal fishing? Is it a customer-friendly and routine measure to resolve pending tax disputes before the Council of State in the manner provided for? Is it also a rhetorical and customer measure to reduce the advance payment of income tax for 2019 of legal and natural persons engaged in business and who have been brutally affected by the pandemic? Is the public’s contribution to the repayment of loans with collateralists in the main home for borrowers affected by the adverse effects of the krone? This is all very extensively analysed in the draft law which we have all read and we have all discussed on it and I do not need to analyse more than specific regulations. I shall refer to Article 9 on the basis of which a system of progressive taxation of passenger cars is activated. The registration fee for hybrid cars is reduced and the so-called historical fee is abolished. We mentioned earlier on the committee to resolve tax disputes in an out-of-court manner. Needless to mention the usefulness of Article 18, which reduces the advance payment of income tax for tax year 2019 for legal persons and natural persons engaged in business, of course, depending on the range of turnover reductions. Also, I would like to say the positive points of the GEOFHY programme, according to which, for the first time, the consistent borrowers are rewarded with assisted loans that were also affected by the health crisis. Multiple borrowers are covered in relation to the original framework of the previous government. The risk of creating a new generation of red loans is limited. The aim of these arrangements is to protect vulnerable households, but without any possibility of exploiting this framework the strategic poor payers. At the same time, not only maintain the necessary culture of payments but also strengthen it. Let me also congratulate the Government on the two flagship moves which, beyond their economic value, have a strong value as messages. First message: historical memory for the fighters in Cyprus. We said about the EUR 200 a month for those who fought in the 1964, 1967 and 1974 crises. Also, the second message is the payout to pensioners, both because pension differences will be paid for everyone retrospectively, and why it will become a one-off one. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion once again demonstrates that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government are consistent with their commitments and continue their reform work to support the labour market, stimulate business liquidity, attract new investments, strengthen economic and social cohesion in the end. Even within the vortex of pandemic, the government with hard work stands on the side of society that is tested in a variety of ways by adopting measures with a social and developmental figure. Thousands of citizens and businesses see themselves in this draft law and understand its positive forecasts, regardless of what was mentioned earlier or from previous speakers. It is therefore a realistic plan. It solves problems and creates prospects. I would urge everyone to vote in favour of this draft law because what I said earlier is true. It gives prospects to the Greek economy, households and businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u497	Thank you, Mr Amanatidis. Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, there are no money, Mr Skokakis told us. But there are money for the Pecha list for direct assignments, for your election clientele, the great Golden Boys with the rich wages on board boards and committees and the support of a business and economic elite that supports you politically and electorally. But there are no retired people who currently cut them over 60% of their retrospectives after you return them only EUR 900 million, according to the report from the General Accounting Office of the State. It's 1,4 Mr. Mitsotakis told us in the House. You are destroying the decision of the Council of State to return all retrospectives of EUR 3.9 billion from cuts in main and supplementary pensions, as well as licensees, Christmas and Easter gifts. If that isn't, Minister, mockery or mockery of retired people, what is it? We delivered you a healthy economy and a 37 billion-dollar pillow with continuous quarters of recovery and growth and you managed within a year and before the coronary pandemic came in to the recession, since in the first quarter of 2020 the economy was already at a negative rate of growth. We are now in a recession, in unemployment, in a reduction in incomes, in wages and pensions and in a financial derailment. You tell us and celebrate that you brought 72 billion to the country, when the actual sums are completely different and much smaller. It is EUR 19 billion - we believe 16.7 billion in reality - grants and from about 12.5 billion in borrowing. And by June 2021 what are you going to do? How are you going to go? Money, where are you going to get it? The 37 billion-dollar cushion is there or has it been eaten? It is clear that, as a result of the coronary problems of the economy and the interventions that will be made in it, many of them will determine our course in the coming years. The Government today brings in a second multi-legislative draft before even a year has passed from previous legislative intervention, i.e. before the results of its relatively recent tax law are reflected. The emergence of the coronary pandemic and its impact on the Greek economy and on the incomes of the citizens could justify an intervention to revise the rules in force if the problems that have arisen in recent months were resolved. It could be justified if it incorporated an economic policy, indeed a development policy, but above all a policy of halting the recession and restoring the incomes of Greek taxpayers. In the bill brought by the government, there are some limited interventions that move in this logic. The exemption from the trade charge for farmers we have been asking for a long time has been in this direction. Unfortunately, however, the overall philosophy of this bill does not move in this direction. In practice on several points this tax bill complements the November bill or corrects its failures, which have already been identified in time by the Opposition. It is once again clear that the Government is legislating to serve specific interests, legislating in a way that affects both the national interests and the individual interests of the citizens, in particular the middle-class and the poorest economic citizens. Today's bill is not an exception, as it is a further stitching of provisions, with a specific target, with a provocative tax exemption for specific and small economic groups. The accident, however, is that the government seems not to have understood at all the new reality that prevails around the world. As far as car registration charges are concerned, this is an intervention which the market has been expecting since last October. You did not include it in the November tax bill and you are now bringing it into new real circumstances and after the car market has really dried up. This is a measure which will certainly stimulate the market for new cars in the country, provided that the world is able to make such an expense. But since you know that the vast majority of the world does not have this economic potential, you are particularly addressing the havings again, excessively reducing the registration fees for very expensive cars. But the great injustice you are making is that you are reducing fees exclusively for new cars and not for used cars, which will be more affordable and could actually contribute to the renewal of the vehicle fleet. So the provision you bring, although moving in the right direction, remains incomplete. It favours the interests of the automotive industry more than the interests of the Greek consumers. It unilaterally favours the delegations of new cars, condemns the vast majority of car dealers to an even greater recession. With regard to the reduction of the tax advance for part of the professions, this is another milestone in the logic of failed politicians, implemented by moving the obligations of coronary sufferers in the future. There is a temporary reduction in the tax advance, transferring the current suffocation of the professions to the next tax use. Instead of adopting SYRIZA's proposal for a permanent reduction in the tax advance that will give real breath to the economy in these difficult circumstances, you are simply turning the problem into a future. You do the same with the obligations of the municipalities that will lead with mathematical accuracy to economic asphyxiation when you start to hold back from the money that the municipalities are entitled to. Finally, as far as the measures for borrowers are concerned, refuse once again to protect at least the first residence. You are subsidising for nine months loans from certain citizens affected by the coronary crisis, but calling on them to reject any protective measures that are currently in force. Why are you doing this? Why don't you give this grant to all those borrowers? Why do you not even discuss our proposal to secure the entire first home from auctions? We have tabled a full proposal to ensure that no first home is auctioned under these exceptional circumstances of the great recession that we are facing. The reality is that you are trying to prevent a new wave of payment stop to the banks for a short time, ensuring that some instalments are collected for the banks, but no first home is protected that is in real danger. In two days, any protection is terminated and you are not interested. You are not giving a real solution. To conclude, one could accuse you of being incapable of predicting economic developments, of lack of ability to propose real radical solutions to the essential problems facing the vast majority of the Greek people. Unfortunately, that's not the problem. The problem is that you are pursuing a clear strategy. You have a plan and it is now obvious. You seek the violent concentration of all money in the hands of the few, you lead to the poorening of the vast majority of the Greek people, deprive you of the weakest economic citizens, but also of the middle-class, dignity, in order to support certain economic interests for the party friends who happen to be the donors of your party. Unfortunately, this extreme neoliberalism threatens both social cohesion and the prospects of the Greek economy and the Greek people. We call on you to vote in favour of the amendment that we have tabled, which gives a real solution to the protection of first residence, and yes, we are once again complaining of the poor legalisation and the fact that you are bringing invasive amendments in the form of bills for voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. And from the Seraikos, we go to Thessaloniki, to Christos Kelles from New Democracy. From me, good night, the Virgin Mary with you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u500	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, following the laws of the Ministry of Development and Investment and the Ministry of Rural Development, which have been passed in the last few days by this House, and through which provisions have been laid down to support labour, better functioning of the market, to strengthen entrepreneurship and to solve problems in the rural and livestock world, our government today brings us a draft law which has development content. In addition to the incorporation of directives into the internal legal system and the strengthening of tax administration, the aim of the Ministry of Finance through this bill is double. On the one hand, it supports the development process of the Greek economy through fiscal policy, which for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a primary tool of development and not a means of bleeding taxpayers, as was the case with the previous government. On the other hand, he stands on the side of those affected by the pandemic, protecting, among other things, experts, who have received loans and with arguable insurance in the main home. As far as the development content of the bill is concerned, arrangements are first introduced to strengthen the favourable tax environment for citizens and businesses which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has established and established in the country. And since the Prime Minister has a very high priority for the agricultural and livestock population and rural development, in addition to the support he has given so far at the height of the EUR 35 million available from the state budget to ELGA for payment of debts and for ensuring stable resources for the CFP, this draft law exempts farmers and farmers from the obligation to pay a trade fee for them five years from the date of their accession to the normal VAT regime, as are coastal fishermen. Secondly, the autonomous taxation of 10% of the financial benefits and donations from parents to their children is abolished. Third, a further significant step is taking to stimulate economic activity, as the tax advance for 2019 is reduced or even zero, depending on the drop in turnover shown by enterprises this year. Fourthly, the scheme of car registration fees for the majority of vehicles is more favourable, with the aim of renewing the current fleet of cars, while a new system of progressive taxation is introduced and the hybrid car registration fee is further reduced. Fifth, it is exempted from any tax or value of inland vouches of tourism of a total value of up to EUR 300 provided by employers, while incentives are provided to pensioners who have a tax home abroad to transfer their tax home to Greece, subject to an alternative tax on foreign income at a tax rate of 7% for a period of 15 years. Sixth, 6% of music books are transferred to the excess VAT rate to promote music education, while at the same time being subject to the reduced VAT rate of 13% of sports tickets from the beginning of September 2020 until the end of June 2021. Tax policy measures reflect our Government's multi-level strategy for fair and uniform development. We promote the free economy and the smooth functioning of the market under the ultimate and regulatory role of the social state, which defends social cohesion and is next to those who need it and who need its support. In this draft law, we are energising the "GEFYRA" programme to support borrowers with a mortgage on their first residence, who have been hit by the coronary, both for service and for non-performing loans. In other words, a public contribution programme is introduced for the repayment of loans with policyholders at the main home for borrowers affected by the pandemic. Of course, we should make it clear that the affected include even those borrowers who have not been affected themselves, but are a direct member of their family, and as a result they are regarded as affected by the whole family. In addition, the bill contains provisions on decongestion of administrative justice and strengthening the work of the tax administration. In particular, the Secretariat-General for Tax Policy and Public Property shall set up a Committee on the extrajudicial resolution of pending tax disputes before the Council of State and the ordinary administrative courts in order to ensure that cases are dealt with promptly. The Committee will operate with three-member compositions consisting of two former judges and a member of the Legal Board of the State. Finally, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is now moving on to a historic political act. As of 1 August 2020, this law stipulates that the provision of a life-long monthly retirement pension of EUR 200 to Greek soldiers who participated in the events in Cyprus in the years 1964, 1967 and 1974. We, gentlemen, do not trade patriotism, we are patriots, we have fully shielded the Greek territory from Evros to Kastelorizo. After the second halt of the expansion of Ankara in the Aegean Sea, the Prime Minister honoured those who fought for Cypriot Hellenism leading the country to a time of uplifting and recovery, when Greece is strong in its region as a pillar of Euro-Atlantic integration in the New Democracy era. Of course we are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u501	Thank you, too. The reason for this is that Mr Practicalis from New Democracy has been given the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u502	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you and stress that yesterday the procedure for the parliamentary intergroup committee was opened with a view to the progress and development of Thrace. Following the prudence of the Prime Minister's proposal to the President of the Greek Parliament and with the President of the Greek Parliament, the experienced political Dora Bakoyannis, who was voted in favour yesterday, begins our national effort with a cross-party nature and long-term planning. For four years it has been a central claim for its reconversion to the standards set up by the late Constantine Mitsotakis in the early 1990s. The resulting policies have been implemented by all governments to date. I call on all our colleagues in this effort to promote the national identity rather than the party identity, to work with a spirit of a national group chaired by President Doras Bakoyannis and to make Greeks proud. The armoring of locust and neural Thrace is a national debt of all of us. The conversion and transformation of Evros as a model of prefecture in the country is a national objective. Let's move on to tonight's debate. The Prime Minister of Greece today announced with satisfaction and joy that within 2020 all the retrospectives that our pensioners are entitled to will be paid in full. The government will pay EUR 1.4 billion by executing the decision of the Council of State, respecting justice. The anguish of about two million retired people is coming to an end. The decision concerns not only those who have brought proceedings, i.e. about two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners, but also those who have not appealed before justice. With the draft law under discussion of the Ministry of Finance continues the reform government work. The Government with methodical and social responsibility supports entrepreneurship and citizens from the adverse effects of the health crisis. At the same time, this bill aims to stimulate the Greek economy by rationalising tax burdens. I would like to highlight two targeted regulations, Mr President: the exemption from the fee for farmers and coastal fishermen, even in the light of the fact that the proposal was initiated by Evros and, indeed, by the trade unions before the Ministry of Rural Development. And the second is the reduction in the advance payment of the income tax. The Government relieves the primary sector, i.e. the economic steam engine of Evros, as far as we are concerned, supports farmers and fishermen of coastal fishing by placing the exemption for the tax year 2019. The aim of this regulation is to reduce the tax burden on hundreds of thousands by main occupation of farmers under normal conditions. This year's clearing house for farmers and coastal fishermen will be lighter than EUR 650. In the same spirit, there is also a reduction in the tax advance. In particular, the advance payment of the tax for 2019 shall be reduced by the legal and natural persons engaged in business activities. In some cases the advance payment of tax and the obligation to pay it is null and void. The aim of this is to ensure the viability of enterprises, to prevent unemployment and to increase the competitiveness of the Greek economy. Another important provision is that concerning the alternative taxation of income of natural persons, beneficiaries of pensions arising abroad. Under this provision, Minister, foreign pensioners are encouraged to transfer their tax residence to Greece. However, we also need the presence of the Greeks abroad more in Evros and in the villages that we really need, we need their European culture, we need their consumer capacity and capacity. Finally, I wish to refer to the GEOGRAPHY programme and to convey the complaint and satisfaction of all those who continue, despite all the enormous difficulties, to serve their loans. To date, support measures and favourable arrangements have concerned only non-persistent loans. Now that's changing. The “GEYRA” programme gives a deep breath to borrowers of first home housing loans whose income has been affected. Up to 90% of the monthly payment of the loans is subsidised. This applies to service and non-performing loans. Ladies and gentlemen, at a difficult time when the country is still being tested by the pandemic, but also by the constant turbulence caused by the neighbouring country in our region, the government remains faithful to its commitments, implements a step forward - its reformist vision, proving that the country has changed definitively. I congratulate, Minister, your financial staff for successful legislative intervention. And with this statement I am voting in favour of today's bill and I call on the opposition to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u503	Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Synopsis Minister, following on from what Mr Pschakis said, my colleague, and in relation to what the previous President said before you about Vlast, on this occasion, to send greetings to both Namas and Vlasty, which are the villages of my father. I want to mention and invite you all to the villages of Imathia, our beautiful mountain villages, Shelly, Xerolivado, the Three Five Pigadia. And not to forget, because we are talking about a primary sector, that in all the villages there has been a great blossom of livestock farming. We should not forget that, not to overlook it, because all these villages and livestock have had generations of Greeks. I'm coming to the most serious. Today we are discussing a bill that Anti-Policy has described as an almost scandal. We heard at the committee's meetings that it is rhetorical, that it is customer-friendly, that it is class-based. We have heard in general that this is a state-of-the-art bill, as we have brought to this day. At some point, however, opposition must be asked why the New Democracy takes precedence over all polls and whether the time has come to change its rhetoric at last, otherwise, unfortunately, the reality will always go beyond it. We promised a little. We were electorally saying fewer taxes and post-elections even in a health crisis without a precedent, we remain consistent. We remain consistent with our commitments. We remain consistent and committed to our objective of a fair and stable tax policy. Colleagues have already extensively analysed the bill, so I will be standing in comparable articles in the bill. Article 8. For the tax year 2019, farmers shall be exempt from the obligation to pay the trade fee for which they have elapsed for the first five years from the date on which they are kept under the normal VAT arrangements. It is regrettable that the conditions do not allow for the final abolition of the trade fee for all professionals. I am sure, however, that we will remain consistent in our announcement to Greek entrepreneurship for the gradual abolition of this unacceptable tax. The context that has been established for the rural world is very difficult. We know well for those of us who have roots on rural roads like Imathia. The fact that our farmers are being exempted for 2019 is a great relief. However, it is also a practical recognition of their contribution to economic development, but also to their efforts in the health crisis. I personally will not stop saying that there is more to be done. The decision by the Prime Minister and the President of the ELGA to strengthen the Agency with the sum of EUR 35 million was urgent and correct. The urgency, however, differs from the important and important for the rural world is to be compensated in timely and fair time, to be compensated for the damage to his property. Because in the case of our farmers, the earth is not just their living, the earth is their lives. So the change in the ELGA regulation must be speeded up and I am pleased that the processes have already begun. Just because the Prime Minister has proclaimed and obtained a very favourable agreement for our country, these funds must be spent on the development levers of our economy, and it is a huge opportunity to correct the bad texts that time, including the obstacles to the primary sector. I now come to the very important provision of Article 16 in which the Committee on External Economic Relations is set up. Those of us who are concerned with legal matters are now aware of how far-reaching administrative courts and how many time-lapsed legal cases exist. Administrative justice, with the amount of judicial material it is facing, cannot respond not to the objective of rapid administration of justice, but is unable to respond to the very administration of justice. On the one hand, we have overloaded courts, and on the other hand we have the governor, who cannot resolve his tax disputes with the public, cases that sprinkle for many years and lost tax revenue for the public. The relevant provision shall be made free of the taxable person, as the tax dispute may be resolved out of court. I close my position with Article 18 which introduces a reduction in the advance tax. Since April, with my parliamentary intervention to the political leadership, I have asked for the suspension or reduction of the advance tax for 2019. In all my contacts with Imathia's local entrepreneurs, the tax advance was at the heart of the discussion, because the great question for the Greek society and Greek entrepreneurship is liquidity. The opposition argues that this arrangement creates a platitude of liquidity. I invite them to go out to the market and talk to the catering businessmen, who will pay a zero tax advance this year. To ask them whether this measure is really relief. To contact entrepreneurs who will see a proportionate reduction in turnover, an advance tax. To tell them how they perceive it, because what the operators of the business world put forward at the committee meeting was the absolutely positive attitude to the provision of Article 18. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very difficult and, in addition to consensus and national unity, a common perception of reality is primarily required. Unfortunately, I am sorry to see that this does not exist and I realise that this is not related to ideologies, because even these are bridged by reality itself. We in the New Democracy are in open and honest dialogue with society. This is what we hear and our pursuit are the best days that she deserves. And because this bill answers society's real problems and opens the way for these better days, we will vote without any hesitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u505	Now Mrs Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u506	Thank you, Mr President. The deception and insult of pensioners began early today, when Mr Mitsotakis came to Parliament and said the first lie that he allegedly gave the retrospectives from the illegal pension cuts on pensioners and indeed all, whether they were appealing or not, in 2020. The sum to be shared, Mr Mitsotakis said, amounts to 1,4 billion euros. They heard this, retired people, recovered, pro-government media made sure to transmit it right away. Some more wanted, however, said: 'What is going on?' Retired people's demands amount to EUR 3.9 billion. Where did they know and what the General Accounting Office of the State says would be given to retired 900m euros. Then came Mr. Brutsis, but he solved the question. Whether Mr. Brutsis considers himself too smart, or retired naive. They all understood when they saw his amendment that he and Mr Mitsotakis were fooling them in their faces. He talked about increases in pension advances, instead of coming and announcing them that he found a way to clear up the outstanding pensions that have tripled in a year. Like the child who made a mess of it, she left the Chamber of Parliament before hearing the opposition. He failed to mention, explain and explain to us the other amendment, which brought about and relates to pension cuts, an amendment which is suppressed, unconstitutional, illegal and abusive together. When retired people saw his amendment, they realized that they had finally been deceived. They were deceived when they were told not to go to lawyers and not to resort to Greek justice, because that was what Mr Mitsotakis, Mr. Brutsis and Mr. Petsas said. They were deceived when they were told that the request for limitations on their insurers was enough and that the pensioners were queuing to submit this request. They were deceived when they said they would respect court decisions. They were deceived when they were told they'd all get their money. Pensioners have understood that they will only get money from the cuts in their main pensions. They realised that those who did not bring proceedings cannot claim gifts, allowances and illegal supplementary pension cuts. The low pensioners realised that if they hadn't filed, they wouldn't get anything, because the only ones who could claim were gifts and allowances. So, for retired people who receive a pension under 1,000 euros the government is not giving anything. They understood that those who owed public, tax, HISPIA, fees, etc. They won't get anything, because the money they're getting will be confiscated. The same thing, of course, has been understood by the civil servants, because they too have the same destiny. And finally, they realized they're coming strong haircuts in their pensions. Because when the question was asked this morning if the Minister can ensure that no further pension cuts are made, the Minister refused to reply. However, the workers also understood when they saw the other amendment, which Mr Brutsis forgot to mention again. They realised that if the government does not have a picture of the real economy - which is not the case, which is not the case - and the working reality, it refuses to help them stubbornly and leaves them at the mercy of employment, unemployment, flexible forms of work and reduced wages. All Mr Brutsis brought was a continuation of the suspension of contracts of employment and again announced that he would continue the failed 'COMPANY-WORK' programme. Mr. Mitsotakis came and gave us a painting that he allegedly said was strengthened by your Government of five hundred and twenty-five thousand ATMs. The table shows, however, that the firms that have been strengthened are seventy thousand of the total number of firms in the eight hundred thousand. So, a liar, the Prime Minister. Of course, he failed to provide us with the figures of the funds and the firms which received aid with the guarantee of the Greek State, so that the micro-enterprises that you have directed your money can also see. Mr Theocharis also came today and dared to talk about strengthening tourism. Mr. Theocharis, who from his actions, his omissions, his other decisions has led the tourist industry to collapse. And he said about the 100 million for the "Tourism For All", 35 million you have given for social tourism and 10 million for the voucher projects, that is 145 million to save Greek tourism. We proposed 1 billion and it seems from the result that we were absolutely right, because tourism in Greece is falling apart. Of course, he did not tell us which of these programmes the Secretary-General for Anti-Crime Policy is taking part, and on the basis of what schedule he will go on holiday from 6 to 15 August and what programme he gives 4,000 for nine days to four people to stay at hotels of EUR 300. He forgot to tell us. Finally, whatever Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Stakoras say, the truth is one. Since 2010, for the first time in a few days there will be no protection of first residence. Law 3869/2010 protected the first residence and the law ended at the end of 2018. With the mechanism of extrajudicial conciliation with Law 4605/2019 SYRIZA protected the first residence and for the first time protected the persons with bankruptcy. What have you guys done? Bring a program - bridge and practically protect the banks from new red loans. You do not cover borrowers who have long lost the opportunity to pay off their housing and are in danger of staying on the road. Don't be fooled. Subsidy for nine months, housing loans that are at risk of becoming red. You're actually subsidising the banks. And here's the trap. The debtors who are to join the programme escape from the banks for nine months, but at risk of seizures by the Greek State, as after the end of the nine-month public contribution, if the borrowers are not consistent with their debt obligations, they are declared retroactively lower than the programme, and the State requires that the entire amount of the subsidy be repaid to them, and also to 2%. The sum requested by the borrower, and even has the right to reach even forced recovery measures, i.e. seizures of movable and immovable property. For all these reasons, for the position in which you have brought the Greek economy, the Greek households, the Greek small and medium-sized enterprises and the workers, it is a one-way road to accept the amendment tabled by SYRIZA, which fully meets the needs of society and is an opportunity for wider consensus that is necessary to escape the hostages of hundreds of thousands of families, who are in danger of getting rid of them. If you do not accept the SYRIZA amendment and stick to the agreement with the institutions that you have done, over the next two years there will be about three hundred auctions and by the end of December 50 000 auctions. This is why you will only have the political responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u507	Mr. Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u508	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Besiropoulos, on 31 July the protection of first residence expires. After Friday - Friday at this time - there will be no protection for the first residence, and by half of 2021 tens of thousands of auctions will follow. Let's see, first of all, what the law is that you bring. You call him a bridge law. These provisions, in other forms, exist in many European countries and came several months before you brought them here. It is not about protecting the first home - you understand, it does not make us mock the world like this - but support in the middle of a pandemic of loan service. Therefore, bring in a loan support programme that you should have done four months ago and baptize it with a law - bridge protection of first home. Virtual reality and mockery go cloud. You're bringing it in too late, first of all. What have borrowers done and what will borrowers do for the March, April, May, June, July? At best, and since the bank is well placed, it proposes adjusting the interest rate for the freezing period. So you're saying you're bringing in a bridge plan. It would be a bridge if you went to a form of permanent protection of first home and borrowers in general. Here we have a bridge to a bankrupt, which if the publications apply - and you haven't disproved them - for all the red loans the owner will lose everything and become a tenant in his home, until he loses it. Europe-wide measures are being taken today to protect borrowers precisely because of the financial consequences of the pandemic. Here you are preparing to bring in a bankruptcy code that was extremely aggressive before the pandemic and you are bringing it to a moment where there is a greater need for protection. And that's not all. Even for those who had been able to protect themselves from the Katselis law, from Katselis - Stathakis or the Flabouraris law, a condition for receiving the dose subsidy is for them to resign from appealing to all these laws. In other words, you also beat whatever protection of first home existed until now and this world had enjoyed. You're saying you're rewarding consistent borrowers. Here the mock is taking off. Do you know of any country in Europe, of those that have either frozen or subsidised loans, which have exempted green loans, that is, consistent borrowers? Not many, one if you know. There's no one. Do you know any of these countries where governments are horrific about rewarding the consistent borrowers and all these flammables we hear here today? You don't talk to natives. You speak to Greek citizens. Who are you strengthening? You only support those who believe to be affected. This means that those who are not considered wounded, whether they are or are not, and the majority of whom have red loans, what will they do? So you come and dismantle, with this bridge plan you are proposing, the protection of first residence. It would make sense if, together with this bill, you would extend the protection to the date of 31 July. So the only thing you do is that you have decided all the main residences of the'reds', 'yellows', but also 'green' before the pandemic of loans that they can no longer go to banks, managers or servicers. This fatality will not halt any dosing grant program and will not start when the dosing schedule is finished this fatal, it will be on Friday already. It is about tens of thousands of homes of people's families and small businessmen and mutuals and relatives. In France they had no "frozen" auctions before the pandemic. They invented it in the pandemic. You inherited our first home protection and abolished it in the pandemic. Or McCron has not understood France's good or you're mocking us. We have heard from Mr Stavoura and other Members of the House comparing the perimeter and the terms of protection of first residence - the amendment that we have tabled - with the perimeter and the terms and conditions of loan subsidies and you tell us that the limits on loans are more wide and larger than our own limits, our amendment. Compare not apples with oranges, but compare apples with lizards. What does an amendment have to do with permanently and definitively protecting the first residence and must obviously be limited to the people's family, to the small businessman, who was hit by a ten-year crisis in 2008-2016, with a loan grant programme that generally supports borrowers in the middle of a pandemic? Obviously, the limits of the second will be higher than the first. And there should be a first home protection law as the amendment we have brought together, along with a pandemic support programme for borrowers, forward rather than August, four months after the outbreak of the pandemic, as is done in many European countries. For example, Portugal, Italy and the Netherlands - and I mention only three, there are others - which also have a framework of protection of first residence in the event of bankruptcy and a current pandemic loan support programme for borrowers, either through interest-free or grant-free programmes. The limits of the latter are much larger than the first ones. I understand they bring you a piece of paper on the basis of which you are saying arguments, because those who give it to you do not care whether you are telling truths or addressing 'nationals', but there are some limits to the nonsense that is heard here. In 2014, the Samaras government handed us over the government after the first housing protection had ended. We restored her protection after. Today the Mitsotakis government is coming and re-establishing the protection of the first residence. We, with all the amendments that have been made - and it has not always been for the good - protected from auctions on the people's homes, and it is certain that we would continue. You criticized us that the Flemish Law was not sufficient or had problems, it had limitations. Yeah, he had restrictions, but his application fell into your hands, because it was a month later. Did you correct anything from the restrictions, did you change something? Or what you're telling us is that because it had restrictions, we don't lift the restrictions, but do we briefly abolish the protection law of first home? And I come to a second issue very soon at the end of classification. We've told you before in the Green Cars Act. This law is a fraud in terms of reducing pollutants by 2030, because in the most optimistic scenario we will have 7% of cars in 2030 - the most optimistic - which means that 93% of cars in the most ancient Western European fleet with the measures you bring will not be renewed. The increase you have made at the same time in environmental and grading charges, with two different bills, drives to change a very old technology car with a new one. This has two results. One is that the other cannot change his car with a newer car, so the ancient fleet will remain ancient, so more pollutants and secondly, it will launch prices and used cars for the very large majority of the world. One last thing I'll say and it's a friendly advice. I hear from many colleagues in the Couple about the terrible plan that the government has, for Prime Minister Mitsotakis, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, how well things and everything are going. The only project you had was the occupation of the state. I do not want to convince you about this, that you have completely failed in the area of the economy. I just want to advise you: a little land, because the more you take off into virtual reality, both here and the media, comes a fall that will be the worst by far from the fall of the worst memorial years and you will land on the ground with a very big trench! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u509	Mr. SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u510	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak, and at this point, as a whole, of the bill, I will not speak of the bad legislation, which is bad because you are bringing dozens of amendments, and not only today, but all the last few weeks, and bills from Monday to Friday. I never remember starting from Monday morning and ending on Friday nights with every day a different bill. That is not at a time of memorialism which justifies that we had the undertakings to go through some things so that we could - and we arrived - get out of the memoranda. It takes place at a time of normal legislative operation. That is why we are accusing you even more of this piece of legislation. I will not, of course, speak of the retrospectives to pensioners where you are finally able to give 25% of what the Council of State has charged. The Council of State charged 3.9 billion, and you give them 900 million, so you fail and you do not respect the decisions of the Council of State no matter what you say. I will not say about the lies you have said and you are constantly saying about SYRIZA's first residence policy, where, for our day, there was no single auction for the first residence of a people's family. Find me an auction for the first residence of a people's family and show us. And, of course, I will not say about the alchemys of the financial support for the companies of five hundred and fifty thousand ATMs, when in the first and second repayable advance this concerns only thirty and eight thousand ATMs. However, I shall speak on Rule 90, as we have also spoken in committee, because, ladies and gentlemen, we have new information. And we do not only have the information that New Democracy's dear colleague from Tinos, Mr. Chartomas, has said, which produced the Holy Synod's document. I will present to you and present to you in the minutes the document of the Municipality of Tinos, as well as to present in the minutes the document of the distinguished lawyer, lawyer Mr.Ioannis Alavanos, who refers to the issues of the Panhellenic Holy Foundation of Evangelistria Tinos. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Syrianis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And, of course, Article 90 does not only concern the matter of PIET relations with the Apostolic Ministry. It is a more general article on the relations of church legal persons with other legal persons and natural persons and their debts, where the provision you are promoting - and you have brought nothing new than you have told us about ideologies - is a non-transparency provision and a provision that really helps the Church unilaterally. In any case, the issues raised by the municipality and Mr Alavanos's document, which I have presented, ask that the following four things be brought forward in this arrangement to benefit the Pan-Hellenic Holy Foundation of Evangelist Tinos, too. Firstly, you must reform - separate from what you have brought today - the reform of the legislative framework to date, i.e. the forced Law 976/1946 and Decree-Law 3775 of 1957, which defines the relationship between the IIIET and the Apostolic Ministry, and at the same time institutionalises the yield of 5% of the PIET's gross revenues to the Apostolic Ministry. Second point: Delete the interest and surcharges from the certified debts of PIET that reach about 3 million and which were declared executioner to the apostolic ministry through the DU Syros. Thirdly, until this reform of the legislative framework has been carried out, the theoretically beneficial amount from 2010 onwards on the revenues of 5%, because the conditions of the PIET relationship and the apostolic ministry have changed given the closure of the church school. Fourth point: Since there is no response to a separate arrangement as we request and as the Tinos entities and the Tinos Municipality are asked to add to paragraph 2 of Article 90 that will add the word deletion of the full or partial repayment of their claims. If not all of this is done, it is certain that the PIET will go into bankruptcy. Contrary to what you claim to be helping PIET, we practically helped it through Law 4521/2018 and showed precisely that we want to support the dual character that is both ecclesiastical and public-private. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will only speak of one amendment. I am going to talk about the amendment, which refers to the beginning of the end, namely the abolition of fuel equivalents because, in fact, in the name of rationalisation, you are referring to fuel equivalent, you are turning a development measure into a subsidy measure, in substance, when you are reducing the benefits of all users supplied with fuel at stations on the smaller islands, where this system has been applied to date. You refer only to residents and officials who serve on these small islands, that is to say, a multiple number of beneficiaries compared to those who have been served to date by the agencies. The justification that payment to operators has been timely and problematic to address it to your own governance, because you have delayed payment of the money for the transport equivalent for more than a six-month period, and you are delaying the joint ministerial decisions so that the transport equivalent can go ahead. It is thus reduced to a minimum in this way to the amount of the equivalent to be allocated for transport, with the aim of gradually moving forward towards a definitive abolition. That is for sure the islanders will understand it very quickly and understand another political fraud you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u511	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u512	Thank you, Mr President. Even as a result of late hour, we have to talk to you in this Chamber. One year Government of New Democracy, one year of permanent personalities, one year - let me - unreliable government towards the Greek people in relation to what he promised and what he did. What did you do, gentlemen of the government, in this year? First you received an economy with growth of 2.8% in the first quarter of 2019. You were driving us crazy, squeezing us with growth and growth rates for 4% of your election and your President. So we are dizzy about growth and we have come to the recession, but it is a recession that you call it a positive recession. We are now learning new terms in the economy! Because today Mr Mitsotakis has tried to convince us that we are better than other countries. But we have a recession. We cannot say that in the first quarter of 2020 growth, that is, the positive recession - so to speak - was at minus 0.9. These are elements of ELSTAT confirmed. The fourth quarter of 2019 was 0.4% less than 2018. Mr. Mitsotakis told us, when SYRIZA was a government, that the economy is pulling away. However, in the first half of 2019, our country's GDP rose to around 2%. Where are we today? Secondly, you spoke - Mr Mitsotakis was also speaking - about the public investment that SYRIZA cut off and gave some benefits to the weak. But today, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Minister, we have the public investment programme to be the lowest of the 20-year-old, minus EUR 1.1 billion. Also on your own government, then, budget expenditure was less than 750 million since 2018. That's the official evidence. Of course, there was no social dividend, which was taken by weak pensioners in the SYRIZA government at Christmas and everyone remembers that. Third unreliability, the Greek. What did you tell us? Mr Mitsotakis said: 'Just one week the bulldozers come in.' Mr. Georgiadis left it for the end of the year. So we come today and see legislation and amendments, about nine to ten parliamentary interventions for the Greek project and the Greek has not yet started, and in the last few days we have heard about changes in participants, withdrawal of investors, names are heard for new investors through foreign fund, etc. So this is where you failed. And here you deceived. Fourth for the FBI. You've received the FBI surplus. Within memorial conditions with the laws that we voted on, the combination of the insurance funds, the ECA surrendered surplus. Today he's a deficit. You were talking about pensions when we delivered about eight thousand pensions that had not been settled had not been issued. Now and on the basis of the Parliament's Budget Office, unserved pensions, which have not come out, have increased by around 50%. We have more than two hundred thousand. I do not want to talk about what has been said today about pensioners' retrospectives, which, too, are specific. But the Minister says. The Prime Minister said a few things about retrospectives, that no gifts will be given, in addition to others, that it is only about basic pensions that the S.H.E.'s decision. The explanatory statement says otherwise. Inconsistency there too. Five, the banks. What did you do about the banks? Was liquidity secured on the market by the banks, gentlemen of the government, Minister? You, the one with whom we have dealt from the outset, with many amendments that have been made, are the ambiguity of bank managers for loans granted. This was of interest to you, too, in the bill we are debating now, and you are still giving more privileges and tax exemptions to bank executive bonuses. But the liquidity in the market? GSBEE recently at a digitisation meeting said: "Small and medium-sized enterprises are in an unstable survival. The climate and the situation that we will be experiencing in the autumn will be very difficult for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship." What did you do about it all? While 72% of enterprises - and that is what GFCM says - are also affected by the pandemic, they have more than 10% access to bank lending. We're talking about TENX I, TENX II etc. Let us cross the market, in the neighborhoods, to speak to the government, its officials, the ministers, to see what the situation is that is completely different from what you are presenting to us. Not to say about the local government that is lost by the measures you have taken. Regions and municipalities lose over 850 million with nilism essentially 'Philodimos II' and the reduction of resources to the regional funds and OTA funds. The terms for the allocation of the "PHILUMOS" development programme by Mr Theodorikos, the Minister, have not yet been specified. And a number of other things. Sixth, last state. A great motto of the government by election. Final state, state of excellence, excellent without qualifications. Where public posts also require university education we do not do so. If this thing makes it hard for us, we change the law to make the ones we want. Bypassing the SAAP. Recently in Civil Protection, twenty-eight people have entered the AACC's out-of-procedure. At the same time, you are abolishing the list of successors on the Legal Council of State in substance and through this draft law. You want a new contest with other criteria for others? On the issues of registration fees in cars, I also referred to the environmental part. For the residence, let me say that they are unprotected by the holders of first home, our weak fellow citizens who, for many reasons, cannot serve their loans and may become tenants in their own home. For the big farce, I'll say, the 70 billion that the Prime Minister has brought. Turns out it's 32.5. Now the grants are still coming down. And they also say public foreign houses, it is written for 7 billion less in grants to our country, along with the Pissaridis project, which means commitments of specific neoliberal cutting that will bring us back again. Of course, the scissors at the Fair Transfer Fund. Our green Prime Minister! Our country will get 973 million less for Megalopoli and Western Macedonia. In conclusion, I would say that you are a government without a plan, but I would say that you have a plan for a few political friends and great economic interests. And you're a government - I'd say - unbelievable words and works, it's been blocked in the announcements. Slowly, however, you reveal yourself. The Greek people begin to understand and experience your policy and will soon put you in the corner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u513	You've reached ten minutes. Be well. Mr Zachariadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u514	Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed many times trying to get into the psychology and mind of the Members of the New Democracy and to understand what was to be done and I must admit that I am confused. Because I cannot understand where you draw the certainty and the absolute way in which many of you are placed. The country is faced at the same time with three major difficulties, three crises which, if combined, could lead to adventures, even to dramas: economic crisis, health crisis, a crisis in foreign policy. Do you really think we're going well? Do you really think so? Do you underestimate or ignore the dangers and difficulties? Because, if the first is true, we are talking about urgency. But if the second is true, the situation is too dangerous. In March, April and May, we all fought together to keep the society healthy and win. But then, with arrogantness, pruding the dangers, you rushed to talk about triumph Mitsotakis in dealing with pandemic and went with incredibly small-party and opportunistic logic to believe the success of the country as a whole. What's going on now? Do you have the courage to assume your responsibilities for the partial derailment of the pandemic in the sanitary arm? Do you have responsibilities? Are there any mistakes? Is it anyone else's fault? We're going to take the individual responsibility? So do you see how sloppy and arrogant you were in June and July when you caused us through this room, from this Step by telling us what would happen if Mitsotakis were not governed? Really, I mean it, and I mean it. I want the country to succeed and the spread of the virus to return to low levels. But to do this, you need to know that you need a plan and not communal flutters. And I want something to be absolutely clean. Do not dare to charge your citizens with your own failures, your own omissions, our mistakes, your regressions. Now let's go a little bit to the economy. Really, Minister, Mr. Besyropoulou, I'm sure you have a sense of size. You know very well what a remission of 9% or 12% means to people's lives. And really, what I saw and lived in the morning was shocking. Because it says this here the Step by Alexis Tsipras to Mr Mitsotakis that we are the last in the eurozone recession. Mr Mitsotakis then responds to him that we are not the last and that we have three or four countries, including Italy. The New Democracy colleagues also applauded. Really, I've been trying to figure out all day what they were applauding. Were they applauding that in the Europe of 27 we are third or fourth from the end? Did they applaud the fact that the Prime Minister compares us to the Italian recession that had tens of thousands of victims? Do you think you should applaud? If you think so, please applaud, but you should probably be concerned, because we are in the 20th - the fourth place in the twenty-seven. Don't you realize we're in a free fall? Aren't you civilians calling you? You're talking to businessmen, aren't you? Don't you realize it's coming wild winter? Do you not understand that we are returning to dark times for social cohesion? He says the Prime Minister of the Council's decision in Brussels was a fair and honest compromise. Don't argue with that, but I really want to ask you. Can you describe us on the New Democracy side as an unjust and dishonest compromise? Not against Greece, but against European ideas and European values. What we have agreed and signed in Europe, you will see how difficult it will be and how the evaluations will be carried out over the next three or four years. So I want to see how many people and how we can applaud at night sittings like this from Europe will be put to the fore. And I say it through my heart: I wish we could applaud, but in the light of the experience of the last ten years, whoever ruled the country, it will not be easy to applaud. Unfortunately, I can see from today's sitting that you lie with the same convenience as you breathe. Let me remind you of something. Do you remember what you said about the 13th election pension that SYRIZA gave in 2019 before the July national elections took place? It was one of our last piece of legislation. You said it would be maintained. There's the videos. What did you do before the pandemic? You cut it. Before the pandemic, February! So with the same convenience, and the same cynicism you said that lie, you say today. Open, he says, the Prime Minister returns retrospectively of 1.4 billion. What was the decision of the courts? It was 3.9 billion! What's the difference? It's 60%. That's who you are. You are a government of lies and a government of deception of the Greek people and pensioners. Let's see the first place. In fact, what do you think is established in the conscience of the Greek people, whether it votes for New Democracy or SYRIZA, either the Change Movement, the JRC or anything else? Who protects the first residence? Who protects the power from cutting off? Who protects the water from cutting off? The New Democracy? Is that what you think? Does not everyone remember what the last ten years have been in the country? May I remind you what the Minister of Development Adonis Georgiadis said at the beginning of February 2020 before the pandemic? He said: “There must be no protection of first residence. It's damage to the economy. If there is no auction possibility for the first residence, there is no housing loan for the first residence. In order to have housing faith, the first residence must be omitted.’ That's what Mr. Georgiadis said. And it's time to ruin our hearts. Because SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance will not stop in this amendment on first residence. We'll fight parliamentary. We'll fight politics. We'll fight social. We'll fight the road. For the home is sacred and as such it should be protected. Last issue, but I think it is more important: a crisis in foreign policy. You need to be serious. You must stop analysing Greek media in terms of the difficulties in diplomacy and geopolitical pressures. Finally, take advantage of the opportunity offered by the Opposition to reach agreement. Make a matter in Europe and in the international organisations in which the country is involved. Take advantage of the possible de-escalation of tension to increase for Turkey any economic, diplomatic or geostrategic costs if it causes tension again. The country enters a very critical and trivial period. Europe is entering a period of great retraction. Do not squeeze the country's boot, neither economics nor geostrategic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u515	Thank you. We're entering the rapporteur's second grades. Mr. Viliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u516	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the objectives set by the lenders in terms of deficit do not matter - the Minister of Finance mentioned this earlier - as much as the deficit itself. That is the problem, since it increases our exorbitant public debt. At some point we won't even be able to help it, and we'll be back in one more formal bankruptcy. We do not compare with other countries that do not have as much problems as we do, which we will pay even more expensively in the future that our governments after 2010 have made it a real nightmare for our children. Obviously, we will be asked for even more consideration and will probably be concerned with our territorial integrity this time, since we have given everything to this day. Secondly, the Minister of Finance said that he felt happy that Greece was not the first, but the fifth in the European Union, with regard to the recession. It did not, however, take into account that we are the only country that has a recession of 25%, when the rest of the European Union at the same time developed with 10%. So our distance with them is huge. Only satisfying can one be not one of this situation today that our country finds, how much more so, when it was set by your Government's target of 4% for growth that one should normally add to the 2020 recession. So it's going to be much bigger than the other countries. Thirdly, your Government must obviously understand that the EUR 750 billion from the Reconstruction Fund for all the countries of the European Union is negligible compared to the EUR 1,15 trillion which only Germany spends on its own economy. What does this EUR 1.15 trillion mean for monetary union? In addition, how negative was the reduction of subsidies from EUR 500 billion to EUR 390 billion by increasing the loans, at the same time, with the reduction of funds for a fair transition to the post-april period plus many others? So satisfied that none of the countries in the south will be at all, and very difficult under these conditions will the Eurozone survive. So you should even prepare yourself for such a possibility. Finally, as we understand - and we understand from all the debates so far, as far as the economy is concerned - you have put all your hopes on the stock exchange, banking and financial union of the Eurozone, since you have made Greece a region now rather than a country. Unfortunately, you are making a very big mistake, since the chances of that happen are very little. The chances are far greater for the euro area to be dissolved. I understand you're tired. We're all here. But there are some things to be said. However, you should look at the Greek banks that are back at the edge of the cliff. It is the next big problem that we will face from September. Now, as far as the numerous amendments are concerned, bills on the substance you have tabled, some of them I prefer not to mention at all. It makes no sense at all, since it is clear that you are not interested in any party's views. In fact, you're deciding and ordering yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u517	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u518	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, in the big picture of whether this bill is on a bridge because of the inertia, which shows that it is the bridge in the next memorandum, which, as we describe with your commitment to Eurogroup for primary surpluses in 2021, you have actually signed. The situation in the banking sector will also be very bad. It will be bad precisely because of the plan 'HRAKLIS', precisely because when you bring these fifty thousand auctions and the disposal of people's homes to anyone who wants to buy them, the real estate market will collapse, the values of the pledged, that is, the real estate, which the banks have in their hands in respect of the loans we have given and those that are not red. Therefore, further recapitalisation will be needed. It's criminal from all sides. We will not stop calling on you to withdraw the 'HARAKLIS'. With regard to the big issue that we, at least, have raised and considered important for people who are successful in the SAAP competitions and we need to continue to use this tender and to extend it, as is the case for all the others that we have mentioned again and again, others for three years, for six. The Minister replied to my report saying: "But it is not legal. Others provide for the institutional framework.’ I will agree with him if the institutional framework is respected uniformly for all. We cannot currently have competitions that have been extended for six years, and in this case do not actually make any extensions. Questions have not been answered. And it's public questions. The Minister mentioned the idea of an appointment every two years. That's positive. Until then, let us use a rule, a way of managing all existing competitions. Otherwise, there seems to be a bias and leaves a great shadow in why it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u519	Thank you, too. Mrs Konnakka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u520	Thank you, Mr President. I will briefly try to get to issues relating to both the bill and the amendments. Our parliamentary representative referred to some of them, but indeed many of the amendments are monumental. Today's bill should really be renamed to "now we found a priest, we bury five to six". It is not only about the inconsistency of the government in relation to what it had committed to the Conference of Presidents on the procedure to be followed. After all, we are also used to such inconsistency by the current and previous governments. It's a well-known project. People now know that this time you are making sure to pass 'under the carpet' pile of amendments and legislation. However, what is it that systematically pushes you to legislate literally on mosquitoes with such amendments with scattered articles? You put forward a possible collective regulation, which in some cases we might want to support, in order to pass very serious regulations with serious consequences, which, of course, are neither urgent, but rather, show your firm sense of hitting workers' rights in every way and do so in the most provocative way with the amendments that have to do with the Ministry of Labour. Our parliamentary representative has also been mentioned in detail. What are you doing now? In the Ministry of Labour's amendment you put the increase in the percentages of temporary pensions which, if you wish, gives rise to questions as to whether or not you really intend to speed up the award of pensions, because it would be a gift free if, as you say, with a button, electronic pensions would be paid immediately. Why do you have such a study to increase temporary pensions? I guess there's a dragon here too. But, behind this, you are going through an unacceptable arrangement, which literally breaks the rights of seafarers, which puts the collective agreements of seafarers and their trade union rights on the ground, which has not really been answered, because there is a need for this bill to go through this miserable process. Not only do you really bring it to the secret, but the Minister of the shipowners is also coming to defend this regulation in an unacceptable manner, not least by saying that thousands of seafarers are unemployed in the fact that there is no way they can apply the terrible conventions of international law, for which - he says - we unfairly accuse them of being Franco-Herzegovina and hunger contracts. Writing wages were described by the Minister. Then what is the need to give these idyllic wages? Is that what prevented shipowners from hiring Greek seafarers, who are affected by such great unemployment and deadlocks? What you are basically confessing is that your study is to hit once again the wages, the rights of seafarers, open the door on the pretext of seafaring drinks, open the door to the overall hitting of collective labour contracts. In fact, it was monumental and the placement of SYRIZA, when SYRIZA MP said neither too much nor much that collective labour contracts are to blame that Greek seafarers are not preferred by the shipowners, but let us discuss it, brother. Don't bring it at night. We have heard a thousand two, that it is the tourists' wish, not the shipowners' desire, to break down labour rights, to win, to earn more profits from the seamen's backs. These patriotic shipowners, which you have described in essence how they choose flags from any state that has the lowest working rights and tax exemptions, are all of a sudden stimulus to them, with tax incentives and others. At the same time, the same amendment legislates other gifts to businesses, covering employers' contributions of up to 100% in tourism, air, transport, as if they were in need of support and not workers themselves. It is certainly also theft from the wallet of pensioners you are doing, in such a way that you are supposed to pay retrospectively, but at the same time you have them to write off most of the debts, when the decision of the Council of State already concerned a much smaller part of the sums you have actually spent on pensioners over the past few years. I shall also refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Interior, which is also in conjunction with other regulations, which we would like to support, and to the issues relating to the restoration of firefighting in the Eye, which, of course, has been considerably delayed in their restoration. It is problematic that we are still talking two years later about repairing their homes. What do you put into this amendment? You are putting a number of arrangements, which have to do with the functioning of the local administration, and in particular with more problematic regulation that it transfers to the economic committees an absolute competence to manage the conclusion of programming contracts, when you have already given the economic committees the absolute majority and control, you are essentially turning the district manager and the mayor into "Sultan" that can arbitrarily manage the resources and make such decisions, making practically a decorative element and the regional council itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u521	Finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u522	I'll be done in a minute. In the context of this amendment, we do not consider the question of child care to be sufficient. We consider it problematic that you bring into this amendment an issue that needs to be dealt with in a more complete way, taking into account the rights of children.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u523	Thank you. Mr. Constantopoulos of the Change Movement has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u524	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with so many amendments I have the impression that we are discussing a second bill. In fact, I would say that you reminded me of days of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government where the amendments to each bill had their honour. That, of course, is not a legislature. I come to Amendment No 422/57. The granting of pensions to our compatriots who fought in Cyprus defending the country is an unequivocal obligation of the state and a minimum recognition of their offer. Similarly, the provisions on the exemption from HICP from fireplace property, the extension of tax returns and the protection of AIA staff, as well as in cases of violence, are positive. Yes, then, in this amendment. I come to Amendment No 433/59. You are provoking here, Minister, recruiting without any action of the Ministerial Council. Below you're talking about the SAAP. So you bring 'photographic' provisions such as Article 10. However, this amendment also has positive and negative provisions relating to Articles 6 and 7 concerning fires in Matti. I come to Amendment No 440/65. Here I want to stand on Articles 3 and 4. You are giving extension to the ability of the municipalities to use compensation funds to cover natural exceptional needs. However, there is provision for a recommendation from the Economic Commission for the City Council. So, Minister, you degrade the municipal councils and their role. Also, under Article 4, you are bound by a special account of the municipalities for repayment of their obligations. Here there is an intervention in their financial selfishness. There are, of course, positive provisions, such as the forecasts for the Sikiaridion Foundation, as well as the support of the CBELs, TRAINOSE, because of the coronary that we have no objections. I'm coming to number one. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection believes that it is essential for the Commission to take action in this area. This is where we stand, I'd say the sports law bill. The Ministry continues to bring rampant arrangements to irrelevant bills. The amendment here extends the mandate of the Committee on Professional Sports, which expires on 16 August and at the same time provides for the creation of a register of amateur Sports Associations. It is also planned to support unions with the sum of EUR 12 million to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. Of course, support for the EUR 12 million is welcome, but it is not enough. That's not good enough. Let us bear in mind that this money will be given to eight thousand unions, with each not taking more than EUR 1,500. Here I would stress that we in the Change Movement support the creation of a register for inclusive sports clubs and the support of all clubs. However, I should like to refer to paragraph 3, where the Ministry intervenes in the federations' self-government and planned archaeology, changing the time to be carried out, without any justification. The Minister should be here to answer us because he is heading in this direction. I come to Amendment No 443/67. You are bringing changes to the 'CONT - WORK' programme, a programme that we stressed from the outset is a failure. This is because it consolidates the reduction of wages and limited working rights. I finally left the amendment on retrospectives to pensioners, which the Prime Minister referred to in his speech this morning. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Prime Minister said does not respond to what the regulation ultimately includes, and I would explain: the Prime Minister spoke about retrospectively all pensioners in the private and public sectors of EUR 1.4 billion. And what do we see in the amendment? This includes only private sector pensioners. Retrospectives are also given only for basic pensions and not for gifts and allowances cuts. However, Minister, one and a half million low pensioners have suffered cuts precisely in gifts and allowances. So these people won't get a single euro. Nor can I comment on the unexplained paragraph of Article 3, which provides that pensioners who receive retrospectively, without their claims, are retrospective of allowances and gifts. In other words, while you give them retrospectively only for basic pensions, you deprive them of the right to retroactively claim reductions from gifts and allowances. That's what I'd say. It's a retired man's payroll. We recommend that you withdraw paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u525	Thank you. Mr Mauritius has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. We are close, Mr President, to a parliamentary parody. What we have lived today, I think, does not have any precedents and I am explaining: Many colleagues have mentioned the fact that we have seen such meetings. In fact, the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative also brought an example of August 1, 2018, how SYRIZA was legislating. In fact, ten, Minister, amendments came in a bill, but eighteen articles in total. I'm not saying it was a good legislative practice. What we are experiencing today is a bill which began with sixty-two articles, last night it was ninety-five and we have come to discuss today over a hundred articles, with the main feature of today's sitting one: Ministers hiding and running away. I have been talking to you for many years in this Chamber, I have never seen Ministers come, table amendments, present them and quickly leave the Chamber. I understand, Mr President, their stress about the reshaping which is being approached, but I believe that Members and ministers with a great presence in this Chamber at such critical times must defend certain things, not just for the many amendments and many articles. The worst picture was that they ran away. The footprint of today's day and what will eventually be written is that in two days from today there will be no protection of first residence. We've been through this. We're not going to repeat it. With regard to retrospectives, I honestly cannot understand how an entire parliamentary group applauded the Prime Minister when announcing the 60% cut of the retrospectives that the S.E. voted on. At the same time, I and many other colleagues, think that we have become voice-speaking. You consistently applauded the Prime Minister for a large haircut, which has no precedent. And of course you are loyal to what you are serving with your policy, your neoliberal policy, since the first moment of governance, which we tell you and it bothers you, that you legislate for the few, you are with the few. Yeah, you're with the bankers, you're with the Golden Boys, you're with the best friends you appoint, you're with the poster we've spent in a year, what you've been ironing, the number of SYRIZA posters. The Prime Minister caught in his mouth and the startups. I'm sure he doesn't know what the matter is. In our criticism that you are bringing an entire article, in order to taxly alleviate the large strains, the Golden Boys and the shareholders and put the workers in pretext, it has brought us the example of the startups of companies. Obviously the Prime Minister has nothing to do with this, he does not know the legal regime governing the startups and we were surprised to bring this as an example of the country's Prime Minister. I could say a great deal, Mr President. I will come to the amendments which have no precedent. However, I would like to say that in the amendments there are also positive articles which we could vote on. I'll mention, for example, what you're bringing for Matty. I shall mention the subject of conscientiousness. I will bring the matter of honorary provision to Greek fighters in Cyprus and all this. But you think, in a way that you are forcing us, not for us, but for the other parties, not to vote on the amendments. I believe that this is the epitome of bad legacy. I would therefore like to tell you this, Minister, because we have more than a week now that we have been discussing the bill and not the amendments. From the first moment on, you have seen a good mood on our part and things should be corrected and we should propose and change things as we came to plenary and did not see it. I shall conclude with an issue that I have raised since the first meeting of the committee. I am thinking of the issue of money and billions that citizens, professionals, small and medium-sized tourists are listening to every day, millions which do not reach them, millions and billions which can at the moment make them easier and take off the deadlocks they are experiencing. The Prime Minister is coming here today and presents us with some information which I would ask the Members of all the parties to take and see in their prefecture what actually means a returnable deposit. I come to the subject - and I close - of the financial instruments. I repeat what I have said to the committees. You are playing a game, fat right now, as you interfere with competition together and in cooperation with the banks. Taximo gives the money to the chosen ones. That is why we are saying - and we are going to ask every day from now on - that all the elements of the business should be given to Parliament and what exactly and exactly what use they have made of the financial instruments, so that the productive fabric of the country where the money is going is actually understood. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u527	Thank you. Mr Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u528	Thank you, Mr President. I must say, at the end of the meeting, that at least a good dialogue was held at the level of the rapporteurs, and I would say constructive with his criticisms, depending on the political starting point. I cannot, however, overlook the misgivings of some Members, particularly of the Officerial Representation, and call it "the gar much of sorrow gives rise to insanity". Because they show that they cannot withstand the government's successes. They cannot tolerate the government's being able to support society, reduce taxes, abolish contributions, support businesses, support workers. That is what I understood from the positions of some. I would like to reply - although we have said so - on both three points on which criticism has been focused. First residence. But, gentlemen of the Officerial Response, you abandoned the protection of the first residence in February 2019. So we come and introduce a protection in principle for nine months. The Minister said today in his report that there will be a new arrangement until it closes nine months. If, what you say, because there is no permanent and time-consuming setup, if you think it is possible. Or you thought it was possible because you said it today as opposition. Why didn't you do it when you were government? Why did you abandon the protection of the first residence? As far as cars are concerned, I have brought examples to the report. Some people talked about an archaic fleet. The average of used cars that were introduced into our country by the previous law of SYRIZA from 2016 until today was 12 years old and even more than double for certain categories of cars, as I mentioned with examples, because of the non-progressive car tax. That is abrogated today. It's getting fairer. The duty is reduced and there is a possibility for new and cleaner cars to come to the country. I heard Mr. Spirtzi talking about opacity in public works. But is it possible for him to speak of impurities when he gave Mr. Kalogritsa some work?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u529	He didn't give. It was an international competition.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u530	The hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. I think you want us to forget and forget about your period of government. No matter how much you yell, no matter how much you insist. As regards the amendments, Mr Manatis, you have said that you agree on some. So you're against the lifelong discrimination of soldiers in Cyprus? No, I guess. Are you opposed to the release of the 2018 firearms? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no. But I explained why I don't vote for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u532	You spoke about the payment of pensions reductions by decision of the Council of State. Indeed, some said "the prime minister has cheated", "it is fraud", "he has lied" etc. But did the Prime Minister say anything different? He told you what he can do and what he'll do. When did the Prime Minister say he would give 3.6 billion for the pensions? Where did you see that? And if that's the way it is between 2016 and 2019, why didn't you do it? You were government. Why are you sailing in this way today?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u533	The decision of the Council of State has now come to light.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u534	The first came out in 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u535	Do you disagree with the support of amateur groups that have an amendment to the 12 million? I guess not. Do you disagree with another year of regulation, with the payment of funeral expenses to farmers in the OGA, which since 2016 had been frozen? I think you don't disagree. Do you disagree with the support of the CBELs and the tourist buses, which came today? I think not. I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that we are supporting bankers, capital is old-fashioned and malicious. Don't say it. You're not convinced. It's not like that and you know it. You have a past. You've ruled. You're not virgin anymore. You must be very careful, too, when you talk. In conclusion, of course, I would like to say that we support the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u536	Please, Minister, we are finishing with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u537	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, as the Prime Minister pointed out in his speech, this government first brought to Parliament the first and important measure of tax relief, the reduction of HISPIA. For the first time, the ENPIA was reduced with a government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In the tax bill, adopted last December, new tax reductions were introduced, such as a reduction in the tax rate for businesses from 28% to 24%, and the introduction of a 9% tax rate for natural persons for incomes up to EUR 10,000, instead of 22% that was in place until then. One year after and despite the sweeping effects of the pandemic on the economy, this government still has a reduction in taxes at the heart of its policy. Even at this difficult time we proceeded with this tax bill on tax relief. For farmers of the standard VAT system and coastal fishing fishermen, it is important to alleviate their exemption from the obligation to pay the trade fee for the tax year 2019. Of course, we do not need to say how important the breath is for the businesses affected by the consequences of the pandemic of zeroing or a reduction in a large proportion of the tax advance. With the arrangements contained in the tax bill: first, there will be no obligation to pay the tax advance for the seasonal enterprises that made more than 50% of their annual turnover in the quarter of July, August, September, 2019, a measure aimed at alleviating, in particular, undertakings active in the tourism sector. Secondly, there will be gradient reductions in the advance tax payment for enterprises depending on the percentage of their turnover reductions. The percentage of the reduction varies from 30% to 70% and even reaches zero of the tax advance for enterprises whose turnover reduction rate exceeds 35%. Evidently, the Qualified Opposition must exercise its institutional functions. But before she had to have done her self-criticism. The policy of overtaxation has been signed by the SYRIZA government. Let me also remind you that the SYRIZA government imposed twenty-nine taxes. Let me remind you that a study by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development states that in Greece in the years of governance SYRIZA the families of employees in terms of taxation were in the third worst position among OECD countries. According to data from this study in the years of SYRIZA government by the families of employees the tax and insurance system removed 40.9% of their income when the average in the OECD was 26.6%. But all this belongs to the past. The Greek people themselves made it their own way with their vote. The tax bill that is passed this evening includes tax relief measures, but also provisions that deal with pathogens, form an attractive environment for economic and business activity, with no weights and hooks. It is no coincidence that the vast majority of the bodies, during the hearing in the committee, assessed the draft law positively. After all, society itself has formed an opinion, which is reflected in the measurements of public opinion. This climate, if you like, has wider political and social implications. It is the return of a climate of confidence after many years between the government and the citizens. This climate has been erupted in recent years, but has been restored in the first few months of this government's term. Something credited to the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Mitsotakis. The politician who knows how to exercise structured governance, is fully aware of reality, has to present measurable and positive results in managing the most serious crises and trials that the country has been experiencing in recent years. Because events in Evros, but also the treatment of pandemic, were trials in which we were able to cope in the best possible way. The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, built a relationship of trust with the citizens, because he is addressing them with honesty. Today it announced that the government will pay a single full sum to all pensioners in 2020 the retroactive sums that are entitled to. With a plan and determination, the government will bring the country back to strong and sustainable growth in 2021. Growth is what produces wealth, creates jobs, increases incomes for all, enables us to move forward with new tax reductions. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax bill will not be the only intervention. There'll be more to follow. The government has a firm orientation towards major reforms and changes. It is committed to strong and sustainable development, to creating a new production model for the country with the use of EUR 72 billion over the next seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u538	A further discussion on the principle of the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Forum interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporate into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2020/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, a public contribution for the repayment of loans for affected borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVID -19 and other provisions’ is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of ninety-four articles, of six amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u539	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u540	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u541	Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Forum interventions to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives (EU) 2017/1852, (EU) 2018/822, (EU) 2020/876, (EU) 2016/1164, (EU) 2018/1910 and (EU) 2019/475, a public contribution to repaying loans for affected borrowers due to the adverse effects of COVID disease -19 and other provisions’ was accepted in a single debate on the principle of Articles and by a majority of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u542	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u543	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-07-29-S1-commons.u544	With the consent of the House at 1.53' the meeting is closed for the day, Thursday, July 30, 2020 at 9.30', on the subject of Parliament's work: a) a special agenda, a draw-up before the House, by its President, between the members of the Council of State, the Ice Authority and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, appointed or promoted to the extent that they hold before the submission of the proposal to prosecute, five regular and three alternate members of the Judicial Council, as well as the prosecutor and his alternate, in accordance with Articles 86(a). 4 of the Constitution, 158 para. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers" as in the decision of the House of Parliament of 22 July 2020 to prosecute the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Dimitrios Papagopoulos for the possible conduct of criminal offences by the former Deputy Minister of Justice in the performance of his duties. (b) legislative work, only debate and vote at the outset, Articles and all of the draft law: "Consolidations to ensure access to quality health services - Establishment and Statute of the Quality Assurance Agency for Health S.A.". (O.D.P.A. S.E.) and other urgent provisions for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
